Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19051-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.50 MILLION (US$22.38 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR THE
NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 13, 1999
Water and Urban 1
Tanzania & Uganda Country Departnent
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1997)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (USh)
USh = US$0.001
US$ = USh 1000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
EFMP 1            First Economic and Financial Management Project
GoU               Government of Uganda
FUP               First Urban Project
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICBP              Institutional Capacity Building Project
IRR               Economic Intemal Rate of Return
IDA               International Development Association
KCC               Kampala City Council
LGDP              Local Government Development Programme
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MoFPED            Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MoLG              Ministry of Local Government
NCRP              Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
NGO               Non Governmental Organization
NPV               Net Present Value
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
SFR               Strategic Framework for Reform
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
Vice President         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director      James W. Adams
Sector Manager        Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader       Gautam Sengupta



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing  Data .......................................................i
A. Project Development Objective                                      ...................................................1
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...........................1
2. Key Performance Indicators ......................................................1l
B. Strategic Context ......................................................1l
1.  Sector-related  CAS goal supported by the project ................................................. 1
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ....................................................... 2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .......................3
C. Project Description  Summary .......................................................4
1. Project components .......................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................6
3. Benefits and target population .......................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......................................................8
D. Project Rationale .......................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ......................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank
and/or other development agencies ......................................................                            I 1
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ..................................... 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...1............. .... 2.... 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project    ...................................................... 13
E. Summary Project Analyses ......................................................                                                 13
1. Economic ......................................................                                                      13
2. Financial ......................................................                                                     14
3. Technical ......................................................                                                     17
4. Institutional ......................................................                                                 18
5. Social ......................................................                                                        1.8
6. Environmental assessment ......................................................                                      18
7. Participatory approach ......................................................                                        19
F.  Sustainability  and  Risks ......................................................                                             2.0
1. Sustainability ......................................................                                                20
2. Critical risks ......................................................                                                21
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................................................2 .1



G. Main Loan Conditions .....................................................                              22
1. Effectiveness conditions ................................................                      22
2. Other ................................................                                         22
H. Readiness for Implementation .....................................................                      22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .....................................................                     23
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .24
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .29
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .33
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .34
Annex 5. Financial Summary .40
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .42
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .......................................... 47
Table Al.   Consultant Selection Arrangements ................................................       48
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                            ..  49
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds                   .......................................... 50
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule .51
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .52
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits .53
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .5.6
Annex 11  Procurement Strategy and Implementation Schedules                                 .58
Maps:    IBRDNo. 30199
IBRD No. 30200



-i-
The Republic of Uganda
Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region - Country Department 4
Date:  April 13, 1999                            Team Leader:  Gautam Sengupta
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams         Sector Manager/Director:  Jeffrey S. Racki
Project ID: 59223                                Sector(s): UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)   Theme(s): Urban Drainage Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data    Loan [    Credit [X]     Grant [ ]    Guarantee []    Other (Specify) []
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 22.38
Proposed Terms:                         [X] Multicurrency    [ ] Single Currency
Grace period (years)        10           [ Standard Variable  [ ] Fixed         [ LIBOR-based
Years to maturity           40
Commitment fee      :       0.50%
Service charge              0.75%
Financing Plan:
Source                             Local                Foreign                    Total
IDA                                7.17                 15.21                      22.38
KCC                                0.97                  1.57                       2.54
Total:                             8.14                 16.78                      24.92
Borrower: Republic of Uganda
Guarantor: Not Applicable
Responsible agency: Kampala City Council
Implementing agency(ies): Kampala City Council
Address: Office of the Town Clerk, P.O. Box 7232, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. David Kiggundu-Tamale
Telephone: (256-41) 258-505/344-535    Fax: (256-41) 231-916    Email: urban@,imul.com
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                2000         2001         2002        2003
Annual               10.880        11.620      1.945       0.475
Cumulative               10.880       22.500     24.445       24.920
Project implementation period:       3 years
Expected effectiveness date:         July 1, 1999    Expected closing date: June 30, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 1
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.    The project's physical objective aims at making a positive impact on the drainage and road network
in Kampala by alleviating the frequent and increasing incidence of flooding which has adverse effects on the
road network, traffic flow, economic activity and overall living conditions in the city. The institutional
objectives of the project are: (a) to encourage and enhance the Kampala City Council's (KCC) ability to plan,
manage and execute complex investment decisions and programs; and (b) to establish the primacy of
maintenance of key infrastructure investments. This operation, which will be the largest civil works project
that the KCC has ever undertaken, would therefore serve as a testing ground to support KCC's reform
program initiated under the ongoing IDA financed First Urban Project (Credit 2206-UG).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.     Progress in achieving these objectives by the project closing date of June 30, 2002 will be evaluated
on the basis of the following performance indicators:
* on schedule, on budget completion of construction program;
* initiation of a fully funded routine and periodic maintenance program by KCC;
* reduced incidence of flooding;
• less complaints about flooding from the media and other public fora; and
* reduction of flood-related traffic congestion delays.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex])
Document number: 16540                      Date of latest CAS discussion: May 20, 1997
3.    A primary objective of IDA's strategy for Uganda is alleviation of poverty through increased
economic activity. An assumed basic element in support of this CAS goal is efficient service delivery at the
local level. The rationale for the proposed project lies in the premise that improvement in the quality and
reliability of basic infrastructure facilities in the public domain will promote industrial and commercial
development, support employment generation and thus alleviate poverty.
4.     The proposed Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project (NCRP) will support IDA's strategy for
Uganda in the following ways:
(i) Improving the reliability of urban road usage will reduce transportation costs thus encouraging industrial
and commercial development leading to job creation which will support poverty alleviation.
(ii) Reduction in the frequency and volume of flooding will result in appreciation of urban land/property
values for Kampala, thus improving the city's capacity for economic development.
(iii) Less disruptions to the city residents' social and economic life will improve their well-being and capacity
for productive work.
5 .    KCC, the largest urban center in the country, is also very significant to the overall national economy.
Benefits of an efficiently managed and well-serviced Kampala will accrue to the country at large. The
proposed investments will be carried out in the context of a comprehensive and long-term program of
institutional, financial and operational reforms currently underway in the context of the ongoing First Urban
Project. This reform program, developed internally within KCC in a collaborative manner, is embodied in a



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 2
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
policy document entitled the "Strategic Framework For Reform" (SFR). The contents of the SFR was agreed
with IDA and formally adopted by the Kampala City Council in September 1998. While the proposed
project has its anchor in the ongoing reform program within KCC, IDA's future participation in Kampala's
continuing development efforts will depend on its adherence to the reform program.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
6.    As a part of its Public Investment. Plan, the Government of Uganda (GoU) has been engaged in
rebuilding key infrastructure to promote economic growth and alleviate poverty. The proposed Nakivubo
Channel Rehabilitation Project represents a major deferred investment in the capital city of the country and is
apart of the Government's Public Investment Plan. To support financing of this investment the Government
intends to borrow under the IDA credit and pass on the resources as a grant to the Kampala City Council.
7.    The proposed NCRP has its origin in the IDA-financed First Urban Project which has been ongoing
since November 1991. During the October 1993 mid-term review, the Government and IDA agreed that KCC
should concentrate on actions to rebuild its institutional capacity and develop and implement a plan of action
to improve KCC's finances and operations. The Govermment and IDA agreed on a restructured project along
these lines in April 1994. However, given the slow pace of progress in achieving the targets put forth in the
restructured project, around November 1996, a proposal was made to restructure and reorganize the KCC and
have it implement a program of "Strategic Framework for Reform". It was also recognized that fundamental
changes in the way KCC is managed and run needed to be made in the context of the overall policy of
decentralization in the country where financial resources and functions were being devolved to lower levels of
government to ensure more efficient and effective delivery of basic services. Though IDA provided input on
the guiding principles of the SFR, the program itself was developed in-house in the KCC with full buy-in
from all the relevant stakeholders in the organization including the Council, the management of KCC and the
labor union. The main elements of the SFR are:
*  downsizing of KCC's staff base to retain just core staff for functional responsibilities associated with
moving from the traditional department-based organization to a service-based cost center structure;
*  contracting out all non-statutory functions (both service delivery and management); and
*  improving financial management practices.
8.    Appreciable progress has been made since the inception of the SFR in January 1997. KCC has
undertaken some fundamental policy reforms which include: (i) Private sector involvement in the provision of
basic services through contracting out revenue collection from taxi parks, markets and street parking; small
works such as road sweeping, grass cutting and desilting in the Central Division of Kampala; KCC's security
services; and refuse collection whereby seven companies have been authorized to collect refuse from
homesteads. This contracting out of basic service delivery functions has resulted in reducing KCC's overhead
expenditures and improved service delivery standards. (ii) Organizational restructuring with a view to
rationalizing the structure of KCC through reductions in the workforce has already resulted in substantially
reduced wage bills from USh 480 million (US$480,000) in 1996/97 to USh 200 million (US$200,000) in
1998/99. KCC has also instituted a Core Team to act as a management tool in monitoring and implementing
the SFR. (iii) To ensure sound financial management practices and accountability the following has been
done: introduction of cost center budgeting; preparation of realistic budgets; introduction of more rigorous
internal financial regulations and procedures to complement the Local Government Financial Regulations of
1998; and strengthening of the Internal Audit unit. (iv) A detailed review to update the legal framework is
underway. (v) Divestiture of unproductive assets such as old vehicles, plant and equipment has happened-
these assets have been sold off by tender. (vi) KCC has also instituted a policy of stakeholder involvement in
the decision making process for some of its recent special projects. These include the Kyaggwe Road
Corridor Traffic Improvement Project financed under the First Urban Project, consultation with private refuse
collectors on the draft solid waste management ordinance, and conducting a social impact assessment for the
proposed Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 3
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
9.     The Government's strategy with regard to Kampala is anchored in its objective to restore key
infrastructure in Kampala to make it a more efficient and livable city. In this context the rehabilitation of the
Nakivubo Channel is significant given that it is the main drainage channel in Kampala. It used to be an earth
drain which was channeled in the 1 930s through some civil works and functioned fairly well till about the
1960s. Gradually, however, because of non-maintenance its efficacy declined. The channel floods frequently
during rains causing considerable hindrance to economic activity in the populated areas such as the Central
Business District of Kampala, deterioration of the adjacent road network and suffering to the populace at
large. This situation was further exacerbated by the El Nifno rains in 1997-98 which were particularly heavy.
Under the First Urban Project, some monies had been set aside to do some rehabilitation work along certain
sections of the channel. However, given the state of deterioration of the channel, it was rightly felt that mere
patchwork would not suffice and the significance of the channel to the Greater Kampala area being what it is,
it was proposed that a holistic rehabilitation of the channel should be undertaken. There was not enough
money under the First Urban Project, however, to undertake the full scale of work and, at the same time,
supportthe fundamental objectives and initiatives underthe SFR. Consequently, the Governmentrequested
IDA assistance to fully finance a new operation, i.e., the NCRP. The Government's strategic objective for
Kampala, through the NCRP therefore includes the following:
•  Less flooding of Kampala's Central Business District streets which will increase their economic life
thus providing savings in maintenance costs leading to more efficient delivery of other basic urban
services.
*  Ensuring appropriate maintenance discipline thus enhancing sustainability of infrastructure
investments.
•  The need for improved infrastructure services to facilitate commercial and industrial development and
thus support poverty alleviation efforts.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(i) Reduction of flooding of the Nakivubo Channel will attract more private investment in areas originally
flooded, thus creating jobs and reducing poverty.
(ii) The project will promote privatization/contracting out of the operations and maintenance (O&M)
activities of the rehabilitated channel, thereby building local capacity in maintenance of drainage channels.
This will lead to privatization/contracting out of maintenance activities of other drainage systems in the city.
It should be noted here that under the Strategic Framework for Reform initiative begun under the First Urban
Project, various non-statutory functions have already been contracted out by KCC. In certain instances where
adequate private sector capacity does not exist for assuming some of these functions, e.g., solid waste
collection, transportation and disposal, KCC is assisting by enacting enabling bylaws for the creation of this
private sector capacity. In addition, KCC was given assistance in developing simple contract documents for
small works which will be reviewed against the ones that the Bank has developed for small works projects in
Africa and further refined.
(iii) Financing of operations and maintenance costs to be done by KCC to ensure sustainability of the
investment. KCC has contracted out a major portion of its revenue generating activities. KCC has already
agreed to put some of these commercial revenues into an escrow account for financing the O&M costs of the
rehabilitated channel. This will be reflected as a specific financial covenant.
(iv) Capacity building for KCC, local consultants and contractors during project preparation, implementation,
operation and maintenance will be addressed. Technical assistance toward developing adequate procurement
procedures and controls within an appropriate regulatory framework will be provided through KCC's
technical cooperation partner, the Kirklees Metropolitan Council of the U.K., currently financed under the
First Urban Project to assist KCC in various areas such as organizational restructuring, financial management,
solid waste management, engineering issues especially related to transport, etc. This arrangement is unique in



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 4
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
that unlike traditional consultancies, technical assistance is provided by a fellow practitioner, in this case, a
city government coming from a similar experience base. Some key success stories in this regard pertain to the
remediation of the Mpererwe landfill site, improvements in traffic management along selected road corridors,
organizational restructuring and financial management system reforms.
(v) KCC's management and supervision capacity of a large investment of this nature to be supplemented by a
Construction Supervision Consultant who will ensure skills transfer to the KCC staff.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
10.   The project has the following specific components to be financed by IDA with KCC providing the
counterpart funds:
* Civil Works comprising of the Main Channel, Auxiliary Works and Priority Drainage "Black
Spots" Rehabilitation.
* Project Implementation Support i.e. a consultant for Construction Supervision.
* Program and Policy Studies consisting of the Kampala Drainage Master Plan Study and the
Kampala Urban Transportation Improvement Programme Study.
* Institutional Support to KCC's Strategic Framework for Refonn Program, initiated under the First
Urban Project and to be further deepened under the proposed project, includes Revenue
Enhancement Activities; Seed Funds to Facilitate Contracting out of Basic Service Delivery
Functions; and Implementation Support and Training. In addition, a framework for developing a
long-tenn Kampala City Development Strategy which brings together these various initiatives in a
cohesive manner will also be supported under this component.
(i) Civil Works
(a) Main Channel Works: Under this component 9 km of channel will be de-silted and rehabilitated,
the major part having sides lined with gabions to the top including free board and the bed in unlined
earth. All along the rehabilitated channel from upstream to downstream, the various existing culverts
and bridges will be widened to accommodate the new channel widths. Similarly, existing footbridges
will be replaced with larger ones while several new ones will be constructed at points of increased
pedestrian traffic. Guardrails and rubbish screens will be installed at various strategic points along the
channel. Realignment and/or protection of existing utility services such as water mains, sewer mains,
telephone and electricity cables will be done where necessary. The channel is designed for a ten year
return period storm, while all culverts along the channel and bridges are designed for a one hundred year
return period storm.
(b) Auxiliary Works: In addition, the following four major auxiliary drainage works close to the
Nakivubo Channel or its tributaries which also contribute to the flooding problem, will be rehabilitated
to handle a ten year return period storm. (i) Clock Tower Roundabout where proposed improvements
include construction of stone pitched and concrete lined drains across the road width; installation of large
diameter culverts and box culverts; construction of large diameter storm water catch pits to replace
existing 150mm-200mm ones; and clearing of existing underground drains; (ii) Lugogo/Uganda
Manufacturers'Association 's Showground where improvements include widening and lining of about
200m of channel and drain; and construction of large diameter storm water catch pits and access
culverts; (iii) Kafumbe Road/Kisenyi Lane Junction where improvements include demolishing and
removal of existing pipe culverts and replacement with box culvert across the road; blockage of several
pipe culverts and diversion of storm water to an adjacent open drain; reconstruction and widening of an
existing drain; and reconstruction of Kisenyi Lane over a portion of proposed box culvert; and (iv)
Makerere Road/Aga Khan Secondary School where improvements include demolishing of an existing



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 5
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
culvert and replacing with two large diameter pipes; trimming, shaping and stone lining 50m of channel;
construction of a silt trap and reconstruction of a section of road over the proposed culvert.
(c) Priority Drainage "Black Spots"Rehabilitation Program: For further enhancement of storm water
flow and minimizing of traffic congestion, 27 drainage "black spots" have been identified for
rehabilitation within the Nakivubo channel catchment. Under this component drains, channels and catch
pits will be desilted, rehabilitated and widened in various problem areas in Kampala city and within the
Nakivubo Channel catchment.
(ii) Project Implementation Support i.e. Construction Supervision: Under this component consultant
services for supervision of construction of civil works will be provided through a Construction Supervision
Consultant. The primary objective is to ensure that the physical works implementation ofthe Nakivubo
Channel Rehabilitation Project is accomplished to a high degree of workmanship and quality of materials, on
schedule and within budget, in accordance with the contract drawings and specification, and to acceptable'
environmental standards.
(iii) Program and Policy Studies: (a) Kampala Drainage MasterPlan Study: A comprehensive Kampala
drainage master plan study will be undertaken. In the study a survey and update of Kampala's drainage
systems, environmental and social/economic status will be carried out. The Plan will come up with an
analytical report on the current situation and projections into a twenty-year horizon, including preliminary
designs and costs for the necessary improvements. (b) Kampala Urban Transportation Improvement
Programme Study (KUTIP): A comprehensive study for long-term improvement of urban transportation in
Kampala will be undertaken. Given the inherent inter-linkages between roads, drainage and transportation
KUTIP is intended to provide a framework for addressing these issues in a coherent and coordinated manner.
(iv) Institutional Support: Under this component immediate and long-term measures will be implemented in
support of the ongoing initiatives under KCC's Strategic Framework for Reform Program for a broader and
long-term agenda of policy, institutional and operational reforms: (a) The process of developing a Kampala
City Development Strategy will be initiated, whose immediate objective is to pilot a participatory, replicable
and sustainable process or approach to maximize the potential for growth with poverty reduction. (b) Revenue
Enhancement activities will be initiated in the form of immediate improvement of property tax revenues.
(c) Seed Funds to Facilitate Contracting out of Basic Service Delivery Functions-Under the SFR, KCC
made an executive decision that in order to improve basic service delivery in its five divisions, various minor
works would be contracted out. The main problem, however, is that the divisions are currently very cash
strapped and require some financial assistance in the interim period, before benefits from revenue
enhancement measures can be realized, to specifically pay for contracted out services. Seed funds will
therefore be provided in the five divisions of KCC. (d) Institutional Support -The Strategic Frarnework for
Reform Program is being managed by the Core Team in KCC which will receive the necessary resources in
the form of hiring of local resource persons along with the attendant administrative and office support and
training.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 6
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Indicative  % of      Bank-  -  % of
Component                   Sector         Costs    Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)*              (US$M)   financing
A. Civil Works
(i) Main Channel, Auxiliary Drains  UY - Other       20.40      68.23       15.30        75
and Priority Drainage "Black Spots"    Urban
Rehabilitation                      Development
B. Consultancy Services
(i) Construction Supervision        UY - Other         1.44      4.82        1.20     83.33
Urban
Development
C. Program and Policy Studies
(i) Kampala Drainage Master Plan    UY - Other         1.44      4.82        1.20     83.33
Study                               Urban
Development
(ii) Kampala Urban Transportation   TU - Urban         1.56       5.22       1.30     83.33
Improvement Programme Study         Transport
D. Institutional Support
(i) KCC Reform Program under SFR    UY - Other         4.68      15.65       3.12     66.67
•  Kampala City Development         Urban
Strategy                        Development
*  Revenue Enhancement
Programme
*  Seed Funds to Facilitate
Contracting out of Basic Service
Delivery Functions
.  Implementation Support and
Training
(ii) Goods                          UY - Other         0.38       1.27       0.26     68.42
Urban
Development
Total Project Costs                   29.90        100      22.38        75
Total Financing Required                    24.92**      100      22.38        90
* Includes contingencies of 25 percent and taxes and duties of 17 percent.
** Excluding taxes and duties.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by theproject:
11.   A key policy issue has to do with the demarcation of flood-prone areas during project design, and
appropriate zoning of these areas by KCC and strict enforcement of the use of these zones.
12.   Institutional reforms include: (a) establishing the primacy of maintenance of key infrastructure
investments to be financed by KCC; (b) contracting out of operations and maintenance responsibility to the
private sector; and (c) revenue enhancement activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 7
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
3. Benefits and target population:
13.   In general, the proposed project will: (i) reduce the risk of flood damage to property and infrastructure
and result in time and cost savings in transport operations both in Central Kampala and in the outlying areas;
(ii) reduce flood occurrence in central Kampala; (iii) serve as a vehicle for building the institutional and
managerial capability of KCC for planning, implementation and instituting measures to ensure sustainability
of future investment projects; and (iv) improve commercial and industrial activities, land use and health
benefits.
14.    The economic analysis noted that four main quantified benefits are estimated:
*  Reduction in damages to building structures and property, adjacent to the channel, due to recurrent
emergency costs (rental differential between flooded and non-flooded areas);
*  Reduction in damage to road assets;
*  Savings in vehicle operating costs; and
*  Passenger time savings.
15.    Non-quantified benefits are:
*  KCC will get the opportunity to build its institutional and managerial capability for planning,
implementation and institution of measures to ensure sustainability of future investment projects;
* Health benefits from a reduction in water-borne diseases due to improved drainage;
*  Unhindered access to raw material and finished products to markets especially in the industrial area;
and
*  Improved land value in the Nakivubo catchment area which comprises about two-thirds of the whole
district of Kampala.
16.    Several groups stand to benefit from the project:
e  commercial, industrial and residential property owners and tenants;
*  the Government of Uganda and Kampala City Council;
*  vehicle operators;
*  passengers; and
*  the general public.
17.    Most of the quantifiable benefits from the project would accrue to commercial, industrial and
residential property owners and tenants within the areas who will be relieved from the cost of repairs and
recurrent emergency expenses.
18.    The improved reliability of urban road usage, besides reduced transport costs, could possibly
encourage industrial and commercial development in Kampala, resulting in increased economic activities in
the industrial and commercial zones, and job creation.
19.    The project will also have a substantial fiscal impact. The Government of Uganda and the Kampala
City Council would benefit from savings due to deferral of major investments arising from premature
deterioration of the road pavement. In addition, the reduction in frequent flooding and size of flooded area
would result in possible appreciation in the values of urban land and property in Kampala. This is likely to
generate an increase in revenue from property taxation and can have a positive fiscal impact on the city's
finances and its capacity for economic development.
20.    As a result of reduced flooding, vehicle operators would have lower vehicle operating costs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 8
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
21.   Passengers would benefit from the restoration of accessibility during and following periods of
rainfall.
22.   Also, the Kampala City Council, the residents of Kampala and the traveling public, all stand to
benefit from the non-quantifiable benefits.
23.   Most important in the course of implementation of the project, KCC will get the opportunity to build
its institutional and managerial capability for planning and implementation of future investment projects, a
major institutional development objective in itself.
24.   Although it is difficult to assign a direct link between disease and quantify the economic benefits,
because of the possibilities of infections in other areas, the functioning of the Nakivubo Channel drainage
works will yield positive environmental and social benefits associated with the reduction of health hazards
posed by flood aftermath and risks to life. It will benefit low-income families who are engaged in commercial
activities and suffer substantial income losses annually as a result of the floods.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
25.   The overall project implementation period is 3 years. The duration for construction as stated in the
bid documents is two years. This is considered reasonable, given the repetitive nature of many of the
construction activities, and relatively simple technology involved. In addition, pre-qualification criteria have
been prepared to ensure that bidding will be limited to competent international contractors.
26.   The institutional and implementation arrangements of the project will include the following:
(i) The respective roles and responsibilities of the Central Government and Local Government are defined
under the Uganda Constitution and the Local Government Act of 1997. While the Local Governments in
Uganda are independent corporate entities in the context of the country's decentralization program, the
Central Government, through the Ministry of Local Government (MoLG), exercises broad oversight on
the performance of all Local Authorities, including the KCC. Under this project, the MoLG's
responsibilities include performance monitoring, compliance verification with the provisions of the
national statutes as well the legal agreements under the project, and mentoring. While KCC is the
implementing agency, MoLG will be consulted on key management, financial and operational actions
which have a direct bearing on project implementation. These principles will be reflected in the
Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between GOU, as the Borrower and KCC.
(ii) Kampala City Council, which is currently undergoing substantial reorganization through the Strategic
Framework for Reform initiative started under the First Urban Project will be the implementing agency.
KCC has established a Core Team within its organizational structure which consists of a group of
professionals selected by KCC from its own staff, under contractual terms, to carry out management
functions for the implementation of its reform program initiated under the Strategic Framework for
Reform and execute its special projects such as the IDA-financed First Urban Project and the KCC
component of the proposed Local Government Development Programme. The Nakivubo Channel
Rehabilitation Project will also be handled as a special project of KCC under the overall management of
the Town Clerk. However, the Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project requires an effective capacity
for the procurement, supervision and management of works and consultant services within the time-frame
required and KCC has traditionally had limited capacity in this regard. The capacity of KCC to do the
above will be reviewed, and augmented through the provision of technical advisory services from its
technical cooperation partner, the Kirklees Metropolitan Council of the U.K. and other sources as
necessary. The Kirklees Metropolitan Council is currently being financed under the ongoing First Urban
Project till June 30, 2000 after which it will be funded through the proposed Local Government
Development Programme which is expected to become effective in FY2000.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 9
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
The specific responsibilities and functions of the Core Team will be:
a)   overall project management;
b)   planning, budgeting, and quality assurance of works and services;
c)   design review;
d)   initiate and take a lead role in institutional reforms;
e)   procurement management and contract administration;
f)   project accounting, financial management and control (see [iii] below);
g)   general administration and facilities management; and
h)   monitoring and evaluation (see [iv] below).
(iii) Construction supervision of the civil works will be provided through a Construction Supervision
Consultant appointed by KCC and financed from the project. This shall be a practicing consulting
engineering firm who will be engaged for the management and quality control of the civil works
construction contract. In addition, this consultant will carry out the following tasks: (a) assist KCC in-the
management of the project including procurement for construction works and services, contract
management and administration, monitoring and evaluation; and (b) provide on an ad hoc basis advice on
technical matters such as construction methods and quality of materials. It is expected that KCC's
capacity to manage and supervise a large investment of this nature will be enhanced through the transfer
of requisite skills from the Construction Supervision Consultant to KCC.
(iv) Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
KCC will:
a)   maintain accounts and records as per Government of Uganda and intemational
requirements;
b)   Separate financial accounts will be kept for the project as per IDA requirements;
c)   Audits will be undertaken annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and
submitted within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year; and
d)   A special report on Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) or Project Monitoring Reports
(PMRs) will be submitted to IDA within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year.
(v) Monitoring and Evaluation
The system that has been developed in the Project Implementation Plan (see Documents in the Project
File, [Annex 8 to this PAD] for further details) includes monthly reports, quarterly quality assurance
reports, semi-annual reports, a mid-term review and a Inplementation Completion Report submitted six
months after the credit closing date. The KCC Core Team in charge of special projects will be responsible
for conducting the monitoring and evaluation with additional input and assistance from the faculty and
students of Makerere University and other relevant institutions in Kampala.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
27.    The Nakivubo Channel follows an existing vatercourse, which flows through a well-defined and
extensive floodplain along many portions of the channel. Over the years since the construction of the
channel, considerable development has taken place, notably within the limits of Kampala City and its
industrial area. This development has progressively encroached on the channel's floodplain, and severely
limited the options for increasing the flow carrying capacity of the channel.
28.    The 'Without Project" alternative would entail improving the maintenance of the existing channel
one in one- and one-half- year return period. This alternative does not present any medium-term solution. At
best what it can do is help reduce, by a small fraction, the delay of traffic flow by allowing more rapid flows
of the storm water. The economic life of improved maintenance will be three years and needs to be repeated



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 10
Country: Uganda                                                  Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
every three years to sustain the benefit. The expected incremental benefit from the investment is marginal
reduction in travel time. The impact on ameliorating damages to roads and buildings would not be
significant. Based on this, therefore, the real choice facing the Kampala City Council is not the "Without
Project" alternative, i.e., improving the maintenance of the existing channel, but to make investment choices
among the three design scale options, based on technical, economical, environmental and fiscal considerations
and the probabilities of occurrence of the storms over the design life of the project.
29.    The project design is based on an initial examination of channel flows along the length of the
Nakivubo Channel, resulting from varying return-period storms. The design options that were considered are
as follows:
(i) one in ten-year return storm period;
(ii) one in fifty-year return storm period; and
(iii) one in one hundred-year return storm period.
30.    Based on a 40-year design life of the project, the following five channel linings were evaluated in
relation to their sustainability (maintainability), availability of land, technical, social and fiscal constraints.
* Grass earth side slope (Earth);
* Stone masonry (Stone);
* Wire mesh gabions and mattresses (Gabions);
* Reinforced concrete for side slopes and retaining walls (Concrete); and
* Hybrid (a combination of all of the above as appropriate-wire mesh, gabions and mattresses, stone
and reinforced concrete).
Attributes of the Different Channel Linings
(e.g. for the 1 in 10-year Return Period)
Methods of             Cost (US$'000)          Financial   Sustainability  Implementation Criteria
construction-    Estimated      Expected       Feasibility   Ranking        (Land Acquisition
lining           construction   O&M**          Ranking                      requirement (hectares)
(principal       cost
characteristic)
Design option-       1:10           1:10                                     1:10    1:50    1:100
Return period    (million USh)  (million USh)
1. Earth            10860.9         106.3      First        Fourth            1.32    8.46   10.56
2. Gabions          16874.9          102.0     Second       Second            0.82    6.89    9.43
3. Hybiid           18158.7          107.3     Second       First             0.0     7.22    9.7
4. Stone            28015.3          95.8      Fourth       Third             0.0     3.32    5.48
5. Concrete         30277.4          96.5      Fifth        Fifth             0.0     3.03    4.04
* No additional land is required for the I in I 0-year return storm period forthe hybrid, stone and concrete channel linings. Additional land will need
to be acquired if the other linings are selected.
* * Maximum maintenance planned expenditure in a single year in the first five years of the Project (see Appendix A.2 of the Economic Analysis in
Documents in the Project File, [Annex 8 to this PAD] for details.)
31.    The five channel linings were evaluated in relation to their sustainability (maintainability),
availability of land, technical, social and fiscal constraints. Overall, the hybrid channel lining was assessed to
provide the optimum solution. The hybrid channel lining not only merges the best attributes of the other four
options along the different sections of the channel, it is also deemed the most sustainable (maintainable) over
the design life of the project. The hybrid channel lining also approaches the most sustainable least cost
solution. For the one in ten-year storm return period with the hybrid channel lining, for a 40 year project life
and estimated investment costs of US$18.2 million equivalent, the estimated Net Present Value is US$15.1
million equivalent and Internal Rate of Retum is 24%.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 11
Country: Uganda                                              Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-fimanced projects only)
Sector Issue                   Project        Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)      Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Restoration of key infrastructure services First Urban Project  S                   S
Improvement of service delivery     (Credit 2206-UG)
standards
Institutional strengthening of Kampala
City Council to support the development
of decentralized local urban management
Role of central govemnment under    Local Government      Planned project  Planned project
decentralized governance            Development
Participatory planning, allocation and    Programme
investment management
Capacity building for decentralized
governance
Testing out the intergovernmental fiscal
transfer system
Small scale infrastructure rehabilitation  Program for          S                    S
to improve the living standards and  Alleviation of
working conditions of some of the   Poverty and Social
poorest communities                 Costs of Adjustment
Low-cost sanitation improvement to    (Credit 2088-UG)
improve the access of urban residents   Project has been
living in hazardous environmental   completed
conditions to adequate water supply and
sanitation facilities in the Rubaga
Division of Kampala City Council
Other development agencies
x.  Capacity building of local communities  Katwe Pilot Urban
in maintenance of drainage structures    Project, financed by
UNDP.
*  Community-based improvement of       Kalerwe Comnnunity
drainage structures                 Based Drainage
Upgrading Pilot
Project, financed by
UNDP/ILO
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HJ (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
32.    Lessons learned from previous projects include:
(i) Lack of ownership due to inadequate involvement of the client in the decision making process;
(ii) Unsustainable investments due to inadequate attention to operations and maintenance;
(iii) Lack of community consultation resulting in adverse public reaction;
(iv) Absence of pre-qualification of contractors in large civil works contracts resulting in award of
contract to lowest bidder but without the requisite capacity;



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 12
Country: Uganda                                         Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
(v) Weak capacity in some local consulting firms resulting in inadequate and inappropriate advice to the
client;
(vi) Lack of capacity in the client to effectively supervise civil works contracts; and
(vii) Inherent inefficiencies in certain service delivery functions using force account.
33.    Successful implementation of this project will, therefore, be dependent on a strong sense of
ownership by the borrower, identification of the most appropriate, affordable, cost-effective solutions taking
into account both capital and maintenance costs, proper design, selection of qualified contractors, a strong
construction supervision team, and proper provision for operations and maintenance.
34.    The proposed project design incorporates the following:
(i)  Pre-qualification of civil works contractors and international competitive bidding;
(ii) Provision of Construction Supervision Consultancy services;
(iii) The major consultancies for construction supervision, the Kampala Urban Transportation
Improvement Programme Study, and the Kampala Drainage Master Plan Study will be procured
internationally using the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection method.
(iv) Detailed day-to-day oversight of design and construction supervision by KCC project management
team;
(v) Operations and maintenance of the completed project to be financed by KCC to ensure sustainability
of investments;
(vi) A detailed Social Impact Assessment of the project has been carried out to ensure that proper
consultation has been carried out with various segments of the population;
(vii) Institutional support to KCC to build its capacity in the areas of program management, etc.
(viii)Address weaknesses in force account service delivery through altemative service delivery
approaches such as contracting out certain service delivery functions.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
35.    Kampala City Council's commitment to and ownership of the project is evidenced by the following:
(i)  Assigning a group of professionals with attendant support within the KCC Core Team in charge of
special projects with responsibility for implementing the NCRP; one engineer has been appointed
exclusively to liaise full-time with the design consultants.
(ii) Participation in meetings with the design consultant; the Town Clerk, KCC has chaired weekly
progress meetings with the design consultants.
(iii) Addressing the issue of ownership, acquisition and compensation of land required adjacent to the
channel for its construction, in a timely manner. KCC has provided a copy of the single,
consolidated title deed providing unencumbered rights to the entire 9 km length of the Nakivubo
channel reserve, including additional lands required on either side for the channel widening. It
should be noted here that the acquisition of this land did not involve any resettlement issues as the
land was owned primarily by private holders, and some major utilities such as the Uganda Railways,
National Water and Sewerage Corporation, Uganda Petroleum, etc. who were compensated.
(iv) Appointing an independent design review consultant to review the design consultant's outputs in
order to meet IDA requirements for appraising the project, as well as to assist in building up in-
country capacity in this area.
(v) Preparation of documentation for pre-qualification of contractors, placing of advertisements in the
local and regional press, and delivery of the same to foreign legations in Uganda.
(vi) Under the Strategic Framework for Reform initiated under the First Urban Project, KCC has agreed
to set aside the proceeds from the sale of KCC-owned housing stock as counterpart funding for the
NCRP. In addition, KCC has agreed to set up a separate escrow account into which a portion of its
commercial revenues will be channeled to provide for operations and maintenance costs for the
channel in the future.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 13
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
36.   It should be noted that the World Bank is the only donor agency active in the urban sector in Uganda.
The Bank has supported improved service delivery in Kampala City Council through the First Urban Project
and through parish level investments for Kampala City Council. It has also supported the Govemment of
Uganda in its decentralization program through financing of administrative and financial reforms, and training
under the ongoing Institutional Capacity Building Project (ICBP) and the First Economic and Financial
Management Project (EFMP I). The proposed Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project is fully consistent
with the objectives of the CAS Report No. 16540-UG (April 30, 1997), the National Development Strategy
(1998/99), and the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (1997) in terms of providing for improved service
delivery and interventions for poverty alleviation through decentralized development funds to local
governments.
37.   In this project the Bank will:
(i) further support the KCC's Strategic Framework for Reform initiative; and
(ii) continue to support the key institutional and financial reforms initiated under the First Urban
Project.
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (Detailed assessments are in the projectfile, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Economic evaluation methodology:
[X ] Cost benefit     [ ] Cost effectiveness  t ] Other (specify)
Summarize issues below [X]       To be defined [ ]    None [
38.   Methodology Adopted: The basis of the economic evaluation is cost benefit analysis with the "with"
and "without" project situation. Construction costs estimates forthe three storm return periods considered
were based on engineering estimates. However, estimating the quantifiable benefits/savings presented
significant data problems. To overcome the lack of these data problems, different approaches were used to
estimate each proxy variable. The approaches are explained for each variable in the main report (see the
Economic Analysis in the Documents in the Project File [Annex 8 to this PAD] for further details).
39.   Based on certain assumptions (see Annex 4 for details and the main report mentioned above) and
methodology, the estimated net present value and internal rates of return for the one in ten-year, the one in
fifty-year and the one in one-hundred-year storm return periods with each of the five alternative channel
linings were calculated and are summarized below. Also shown is the net present value for the "without"
project case based on reduction of about 10% in flooding time due to improved maintenance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 14
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Summary of NPV & IRR Estimates*
(NPV in billion Ugandan Shillings)
Construction Methods/                                               Stone      Reinforced
Storm Return Period         Earth       Gabions       Hybrid       Pitching     Concrete
"Without" Project
NPV                            18.5       N.A           N.A          N.A           N.A
IRR*                          15%         N.A           N.A          N.A           N.A
"With" Project
1 in 10-year
NPV                         20,640        16,385       15,067         8,493         6,889
IRR                           37%           26%          24%           17%          16%
1 in 50-year
NPV                          14,055       10,636        8,341         1,762        2,177
IRR                           22%           19%          17%           13%          13%
1 in 100-year
NPV                          12,456        8,664        6,408        (1,560)      (2,441)
IRR                           20%           17%          15%           11%          11%
If expected damages to
buildings are included**
1 in 50-year
NPV                         24,382        20,963       18,668        12,088        12,504
EIRR                          29%           24%          22%           17%          17%
1 in 100-year           j
NPV                          27,277       23,486       21,224        13,262        12,381
IRR                           2%            24%          22%      17%               16%
* Includes all the four quantified benefits. Present value based on 12% discount rate and 40-year design life of the
project.
** Result if current land use is kept.
40.    Overall, the hybrid channel lining was assessed to provide the optimum solution. The hybrid channel
lining not only merges the best attributes of the other four options along the different sections of the channel,
it is also deemed the most sustainable (maintainable) over the design life of the project. The hybrid channel
lining also approaches the most sustainable least cost solution. For the one in ten-year storm return period
with the hybrid channel lining, for a 40 year project life and estimated investment costs of US$18.2 million
equivalent, the estimated Net Present Value is US$ 15.1 million equivalent and Internal Rate of Return is
24%. A 12% discount rate is used in the economic analysis, and cash flows are presented in terms of
Ugandan Shillings and converted at a rate of US$ 1=1000 UShs. The result is robust and does not depend on
any one single variable. The ten-year storm return period design option with the hybrid channel lining will
require no additional land acquisition. The one in ten-year storm return period will have substantial impact in
reducing the frequency and incidence of flooding. The chance that a storm of a scale of 1 in 100 period may
happen is less than 25% (1-0.6689=0.231 1).
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=; FRR= %
Summarize issues below [XI        To be defined [ I      None[ I]
(i) Analysis ofthe Financial Structure, Efficiency and Viability of the Project Entity: To ensure the
sustainability of on-going investments, and as an integral part of the Strategic Framework for Reform, KCC
has recently embarked on a broad program of financial management improvements. The main elements of
these improvements include:
a) gradually downsizing the establishment, thereby reducing proportionately high employee costs;



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 15
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
b)  improving revenue mobilisation efforts, particularly the property tax management system, to be
undertaken under the project;
c)  more realistic service/cost centre oriented budgeting practices and expenditure management
systems;
d)  reorganising from a traditional department-based institution into a service/cost centre-based
organisation; and
e)  involving the private sector in the performance of many of its non-statutory functions in order to
improve on service delivery.
The change to a service/cost centre-based organisation would enable KCC to match its costs to actual
functions and thereby evaluate and assess the efficiency of its service delivery functions accurately and on an
individual basis. It must be noted that it is too early to assess what the exact impact of the various initiatives
may be over the medium to long term on the overall financial health of KCC. However, some improvements
have been noted in its revenue mobilisation and expenditure management efforts in recent years. The bottom
line is that KCC still remains financially dependent on external resources to meet its capital investment needs.
To put this into perspective, KCC's overall budget (actual) over the recent past has been about US$10-12
million annually. Of this, KCC has spent about US$9-10 million on recurrent costs, leaving only marginal
amounts for capital investments. Very broad conservative estimates indicate that KCC would continue to run
an operating deficit, on a gradually declining basis, for at least another eight to ten years, beyond which it can
reasonably be expected to finance fully all operating and maintenance costs from internally generated
revenues and to begin to marginally contribute towards capital expenditure budgets. In the interim, much
needed investments to rehabilitate key infrastructure will have to be financed by the Government through
external donor support.
(ii) Operations and Maintenance Costs: As part of the NCRP, KCC has prepared an Operations and
Maintenance Plan (Routine, Periodic and Emergency) following construction and hand over of the civil
works. It is intended that routine, periodic and emergency maintenance will be carried out under contract, and
will be renewable annually based on performance by the contractor. The KCC Core Team will supervise this
contractor and monitor the work.
Normal operations will include reading the installed meteorological equipment (part of channel installations),
analyzing the data and preparing reports. Routine maintenance will include minor cleaning, replacing broken
gabions, stones and mortar; cutting grass; and maintaining foot paths and trees. Periodic maintenance will
include major cleaning, de-silting, and replacement of large sections of the channel. Emergency repairs will
be carried out as the need arises. It is intended that these activities will be carried out under contract. The
routine maintenance contract will be renewed or contracted out annually while the periodic maintenance
contract will be renewed or contracted out every three years depending on the contractor's performance.
Monitoring and evaluation of routine and periodic maintenance activities in order to ensure that the channel
will be maintained efficiently will be a key activity. The Core Team will undertake performance evaluation
using both qualitative and quantitative indicators (see the Project Implementation Plan in the Documents in
the Project File [Annex 8 to this PAD] for further details).



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 16
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Summary of O&M Costs
Activity              Amount            Period       Average Annual
(in '000 USh)                      Costs in '000
USh
1  Operation                          5,130     Annual                   5,130
2  Routine Maintenance               18,480      Annual                  18,480
3  Periodic Maintenance              78,500      3 years                26,170
4  Replacement of Parts              43,500      10 years                 4,350
5  Emergency Maintenance              4,860      Spread over 3 yrs.       1,620
6  Management                         3,600      Annual                   3,600
TOTAL                        I    _I                                 59,350
KCC has agreed to set up a separate escrow account into which a portion of its commercial revenues will be
channeled to provide for operations and maintenance costs, of about USh 60 million per year, for the channel
in the future. This will also be reflected as a financial covenant.
(iii) Financial Covenants: KCC has indicated that it will set aside proceeds from the sale of its housing stock,
an unproductive asset, as counterpart funding for the NCRP. KCC is currently working on the modalities of
the sale which is due to begin shortly. A duly authorized valuation list of KCC-owned staff houses certified
by the Chief Governnent Valuer would be a condition of credit effectiveness. In addition, a duly authorized
valuation list for all KCC-owned housing estates and other houses owned by KCC certified by the Chief
Government Valuer to be submitted by December 31, 1999 will be a financial covenant. The completion of
the sale of KCC's staff houses by June 30, 2000 and its housing estates and its other houses by June 30, 2001
would also be reflected as financial covenants. Also, KCC will be required to furnish quarterly returns on the
proceeds from the sale of its housing stock being deposited by KCC into the Project Account. In addition,
KCC has agreed to set up a separate escrow account into which a portion of its commercial revenues will be
channeled to provide for operations and maintenance costs for the channel in the future. In this regard, by
July 1,1999 KCC will be required to establish an Operations and Maintenance Escrow Account and deposit
Ush 15 million on a quarterly basis starting from the quarter ending September 30, 1999 through June 30,
2002 into this account. It should be noted that in the short term (until a revised property tax administration
system is fully operational) a significant property tax base increase to support O&M is not expected.
Therefore, commercial revenues are earmarked for covering O&M costs. KCC will set up an improved and
more efficient property tax administration under this project as a first step to determining and realizing
revenue effectively from this revenue base and allocating the revenue through a budgetary process. One
direct impact of this exercise would be to capture increased land/property tax value arising out of the
improvements under the NCRP.
Fiscal Impact:
Increase in Recurrent Costs Resulting from the Project and Prospects for Financing this Increase: As
discussed above, the proposed investments would add about US$60,000 annually to KCC's recurrent budget
to cover the O&M costs to maintain the investments. This is being fully finded through an escrow account to
be set up specifically for this purpose and to be reflected as a financial covenant.
The Availability and Certainty of Counterpart Funds for the Project: Availability of counterpart funding from
KCC for this project would be ensured through the proceeds of the sale of its housing stock. A duly
authorized valuation list of KCC-owned staff houses certified by the Chief Government Valuer would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The completion of the sale of KCC's staff houses by June 30, 2000 and its
housing estates and its other houses by June 30, 2001 would be reflected as financial covenants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 17
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Budgetary Impact: The NCRP is a part of the national Public Investment Plan. IDA resources would be
passed on to KCC from the Central Government as a grant and would capitalize KCC towards financing
deferred investments.
3. Technical:
Summarize issues below [X]        To be defined [ ]      None [ I
41.   In reviewing technical alternatives for the design and construction of the project, a number of factors,
including availability of skilled and unskilled labor and materials and equipment were taken into account. In
addition, physical restrictions imposed by existing development were also considered. The economic analysis
has examined the impact of widening the present channel right-of-way to enable flow discharges up to and
including those corresponding to a 1:100 year storm. The economic analysis shows that widening of the
present channel limits would require demolishing of residential, commercial and industrial facilities along the
length of the channel which would not be economically viable. In addition, such widening would result in
protracted delays in negotiating for the acquisition of the additional land, and require some resettlement of
population.
42.    The following options have been limited to using materials and technologies which are readily
available in Uganda. The following altematives have been considered to be appropriate for channel lining:
grass banks; masonry stone; wire mesh filled stone (gabions and mattresses); reinforced concrete; and a
,brid of all the previous linings. Channel cross sections which have been considered include trapezoidal
seetions with 1:1 or 1 :1.5 side slopes, and rectangular sections.
43.    The project design will be based on the use of appropriate technologies, the intended project life,
costing of proposed altematives, construction methods, and physical constraints. Issues which will be
addressed during project design and implementation include:
(i) Use of appropriate technologies: Uganda is a country with limited skilled labor resources, but plenty
of availability of unskilled labor, and low labor costs. It has limited in-country capacity for cement
manufacture, hence high cement prices. A high percentage of the country's cement is imported.
Quarry stone, clay and sand, however, are raw materials which are in abundant supply. Other locally
manufactured items such as reinforcement steel are in short supply and need to be supplemented
through imports. The design alternative has taken these factors into consideration.
(ii) The selected altemative for channel design was reviewed from a point of view of cost, channel
hydraulics, and physical constraints. The channel has low gradients along most of its length, except
along its uppermost reach where gradients may reach 17% but channel flows are low. The proposed
channel rehabilitation works generally follow the existing channel centerline, with widening and
deepening of the channel being the preferred option for increasing the channel's discharge capacity.
Physical constraints, including the presence of existing industrial facilities alongside the existing
Nakivubo channel, will likely affect channel hydraulics and dictate special treatment of channel
profiles and lining materials in selected locations.
(iii) Special attention will be required in addressing existing perennial channel flows, including
contributions from industrial discharges into the channel. Construction of the channel rehabilitation
works will be particularly hindered during the rainy seasons and special measures, including flow
diversion works, will be required. The attention of bidders for the construction of the civil works
will be drawn both through the bidding documentation and during the pre-bid site visit and meeting.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 18
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
4. Institutional:
44.  Executing agencies: There are capacity constralints in KCC regarding project design, management,
implementation and maintenance. This is further manifested by inadequate service delivery standards and the
lack of adequate financial management procedures. Under the ongoing First Urban Project, KCC has
undergone major restructuring in how it conducts its business. This restructuring is an ongoing process,
which is embodied in the institutional and operational reform program i.e., the Strategic Framework for
Reform, a home-grown plan of action at KCC resulting from much internal discussion, coordination through a
technical cooperation arrangement with the Kirklees Metropolitan Council in the U.K., and workshops
conducted by KCC with all relevant groups within the Kampala City Council. As a result of this reform
program, KCC has set up a Core Team responsible for the various project components within the First Urban
Project, and designated a Core Team engineer to work full-time on coordinating the work being undertaken
under the NCRP.
45.   Project management: In this context, the KCC Core Team will need to:
(i)  Monitor the performance of the contractor closely. This will be achieved through (a) day-to-day
coordination between the designated KCC engineering supervision team and the resident
Construction Supervision Consultant; and (b) regular progress meetings with the Construction
Supervision Consultant and the contractor.
(ii) Enhance its monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capabilities, by appointing one of its members to be
in charge of M&E both during implementation of construction and following project completion.
This officer will need to liaise closely with KCC's service division responsible for roads and
drainage following hand-over by the contractor.
(iii) An independent quality assurance consultant will be engaged by the Bank to undertake regular (e.g.
quarterly) supervision missions.
(iv) Ensure that a strong financial management system is maintained for the project.
5. Social:
46.   A Social Impact Assessment was carried out during the project design phase. This study was
intended to identify any significant social risks resulting from implementation of the NCRP. It is not
anticipated that implementation of the NCRP will carry significant social risks. There are no permanent
structures located within the proposed channel widening reserve. Some temporary structures used for vending
will be relocated by KCC as part of the preparatory works before project implementation. The project is
expected to have a significant overall benefit to low-income groups, through flood alleviation, particularly in
the areas adjacent to open air market activities near the channel.
47.   People who reside in the areas have strong views about the present state of the Channel and are
particularly concerned about the flooding problem, damages to household property and a wide range of
hygienic issues. The business community is similarly concemed about flooding problems, rubbish in their
work environment as well as the loss of business and income whenever flooding occurs after rains. It is for
this reason that these people have requested KCC to have the Channel rehabilitated. Flooding is the most
common problem, followed by loss of business activities and income. It will also be observed that hygienic
issues (pollution, diseases) have been mentioned by all the three categories of the communities interviewed.
6. Environmental assessment:          Environment Category B
48.   The investments under this program focus on flood alleviation and improvement of drainage in the
low-lying areas of Kampala within the Nakivubo channel catchment area. The project therefore focuses on
improvement of parameters which lead to a safer, more sanitary, and environmentally improved living
enviromnment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 19
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
49.    The project falls under category B because of its limited environmental impact, primarily during
construction activities due to noise, dust, increased vehicular activity and aesthetics. The scope of the
environmental assessment covers impacts and mitigation measures in the areas of flood alleviation, soil
erosion, transport and disposal of excavated materials, flow diversion, relocation of utilities, provision of
footbridges, aesthetics, and health and safety during construction activities and following project completion.
50.    The bid documents have incorporated mitigation measures to be applied during construction. The
project will be subjected to this checklist of mitigation measures to ensure that it meets the environmental
requirements, prior to implementation.
51.    There are no resettlement issues involved, other than minor temporary relocation of make-shift
vending displays within the existing Nakivubo Channel property limits. This temporary relocation will be
done in collaboration with the vendors' associations during construction. It will generally involve shifting
business from areas where construction is taking place to areas where construction is yet to begin or has been
completed.
52.    Other issues relate to residential, commercial and industrial facilities located within the existing
Nakivubo Channel flood plain. The proposed project will have a beneficial effect in terms of alleviating
flooding problems in these areas. However, it is anticipated that some properties within the 1 00-year flood
zone will continue to be affected by exceptional rainstorm events. The limits of the areas likely to be affected
by the 1 in 100 year storm after project implementation have been identified during project design. KCC is
undertaking an appropriate zoning of flood-prone areas for use as recreational and other activities with minor
impacts resulting from exceptional rainstorm events.
53.    The Environmental Impact Assessment for the project was received in November 1998.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
[X] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.
[ ] Not applicable (describe why participatory approach not applicable with these groups)
54.    Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups have been involved in, and have influenced, the
project formulation in the following manner:
(i)  Intensive consultations were undertaken with vendors at Kiseka and Owino markets, the Nakivubo
Settlement Primary School, the Aga Khan Primary and Secondary Schools, the Police Fire Brigade,
property owners and operators, industrialists including Mukwano and subsistence cultivators at the
downstream end of the channel. All these are located within the vicinity of the channel.
Considerable interaction with these communities took place during the carrying out of the Social
Impact Assessment and there was universal support for the proposed project.
(ii) Other stakeholders are utility companies whose services cross the channel at various places. The
National Water and Sewerage Corporation was consulted about designs of alterations to their service
lines. The Uganda Telecommunications company and the Uganda Electricity Board prepared
designs and cost estimates for alterations to their services which have been incorporated in the
works.
Other key stakeholders:
[X ] Name and describe groups, how involved, and what they have influenced.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 20
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
55.    The Kampala City Council Executive Committee and the National Parliament through the Sectoral
Committee on Local Government have been informed about the rehabilitation work on the channel. There
have also been several press conferences where KCC executives have informed the general public about the
impending rehabilitation work on the channel. All these groups have echoed the need for rehabilitating the
channel.
F: SUSTA1NABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
56.    As part of the NCRP, KCC has prepared an Operations and Maintenance Plan (Routine, Periodic and
Emergency) following construction and handover of the Nakivubo Channel. It is intended that routine,
periodic and emergency maintenance will be carried out under contract. This contract will be renewable
annually based on performance by the contractor. The KCC Core Team will supervise this contractor and
monitor the work.
57.    KCC has agreed to set up a separate escrow account into which a portion of its commercial revenues
will be channeled to provide for operations and maintenance costs, of about USh 60 million per year, for the
channel in the future. This will also be reflected as a financial covenant. It should be noted that in the short
term (until a revised property tax administration system is fully operational) a significant property tax base
increase to support O&M is not expected. Therefore, commercial revenues are earmarked for covering O&.8v!
costs. KCC will set up an improved and more efficient property tax administration under this project as a first
step to determining and realizing revenue effectively from this revenue base and allocating the revenue
through a budgetary process.
58.    The project design has taken into consideration both capital and maintenance costs in determnining th
most cost-effective alternative. In addition, availability of locally available materials and requisite labor skill
for undertaking routine and periodic maintenance were factors in the project design, to ensure project
sustainability.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 21
Country: Uganda                                             Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
2. CriticalRisks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
KCC's commitment to sustained efforts at         M        *  Availability of the Core Team
improving program management and delivery                 *  Support for alternative basic service delivery
capacity                                                  *  Critical review of organizational changes
_   _      _  *  Strict monitoring and evaluation
KCC's ability provide the required counterpart    N       *  A condition of credit effectiveness will be
funds                                                         submission to IDA of a duly-authorized
valuation list of KCC-owned staff houses,
proceeds of the sale of which will be used as
counterpart funds for the project, certified by
the Chief Government Valuer.
*  3 Credit covenants
KCC's ability to set aside the required funds for  N      .  2 Credit covenants
O&M                                                       *  Dedicating commercial revenues to O&M
KCC ensuring adequate quality of civil works     N        .  Availability of a CSC
construction:                                             *  Availability of the Core Team
KCC's commitment to the SER                       M        *  Implementation of organizational reforms
*  Availability of the Core Team
Ensuring ownership of development strategies by  M        .  Implementation of organizational reforms
the Divisions                                             *  Availability of the Core Team
Divisions and Center realigning from ad hoc day-  M       *  Implementation of organizational reforms
to-day interventions to strategic management              .  Availability of the Core Team
Effective governance at all levels               M        .  Implementation of organizational reforms
*  Availability of the Core Team
KCC's adoption of a rationalized revenue         N        .  Implementation of organizational reforms
mobilization strategy                                     *  Availability of the Core Team
KCC's adoption of a rational and prioritized      S       .  Implementation of organizational reforms
expenditure framework                                     *  Availability of the Core Team
From Components to Outputs
Capacity of international and local contractors to  N      *  Actions already undertaken to prequalify
effectively complete the works                                 contractors for the civil works
. A competent international consultant to
supervise the contractors
Appropriate selection of consultants              N       *  Action already taken to select competent
consultants through international
advertisement
a  QCBS selection procedure to be used.
Adherence to the principles and modalities of the  M      .  Availability of the Core Team
SFR implementation plan                                   .  Strict monitoring and evaluation
*  Periodic exposure of members of Council
and staff to best practices
*  Continued sensitization of stakeholders.
Overall Risk Rating                               M        *  All the above
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible ControversialAspects
59.    None



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 22
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)  A duly authorized valuation list of KCC-owned staff houses, proceeds from the sale of which will
be used as counterpart funds for the project,certified by the Chief Government Valuer.
(ii) Signed subsidiary agreement between the Government of Uganda and KCC whereby proceeds of
the IDA credit would be made available to KCC as a grant from GoU.
(iii) KCC to submit consolidated audited financial statements for the year ending June 30, 1998.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
(i) Accounts/Audits: (a) KCC will maintain accounts and records as per Government of Uganda and
intemational requirements; (b) Separate financial accounts for the project will be kept as per IDA
requirements; (c) Audits will be undertaken annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and
submitted within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year; (d) A special report on Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs)/Project Management Reports (PMRs) will be submitted to IDA within 6 months of the end of each
fiscal year; and (e) KCC to maintain a Project Account, Special Account and Operations and Maintenance
Escrow Account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
(ii) Counterpart Funding: (a) A duly authorized valuation list of KCC-owned estate housing and other houses
owned by KCC certified by the Chief Government Valuer to be submitted by December 31, 1999; (b)
Completion of the sale of KCC's staff houses by June 30, 2000; completion of the sale of KCC's housing
estates and all its other houses by June 30, 2001; (c) KCC to submit quarterly returns on actual proceeds from
the sale of KCC's housing stock being deposited into the Project Account starting from the quarter ending
September 30, 1999.
(iii) Operations and Maintenance Escrow Account: (a) KCC to establish an Operations and Maintenance
Escrow Account in a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA, by July 1, 1999; (b) KCC to deposit USh 15
million on a quarterly basis starting from quarter ending September 30, 1999 through the project closing date
of June 30, 2002.
(iv) Management Aspects of the Project: KCC shall maintain with staffing and function, satisfactory to IDA,
its Core Team responsible for the implementation of the project.
(v) Monitoring, Review and Reporting: KCC to submit quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs),
acceptable to IDA, as per LACI requirements.
(vi) Financial Management Aspects: KCC to carry out a time-bound action plan for the strengthening of its
financial system for the project by September 30, 1999.
(vii) Any Other Project Implementation: KCC to implement the project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan agreed at negotiations.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 23
Country: Uganda                                               Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
I. COMPLIANCE WiTH BANK POLICIES
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.
Sengupta                      Jeffrey S. Racki                     James W. Adams
Team Leader                           Sector Manager                        Country Director



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 24
Country: Uganda                                                    Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring & Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Efficient service delivery at the  Improved service delivery  Periodic service delivery   Improved program and financial
local govemnment level.         standards.                   output and impact reports   management capacity.
to be done by KCC.
Project Development Objective:  Outcome / Impact Indicators:  Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Alleviate the frequent and      *   Reduced incidence of     Semi-annual physical     Adequate and competent
increasing incidence of flooding in  flooding                inspections and surveys of  management and staff base.in
Kampala                        *   Less complaints about     flood prone areas in the  KCC
flooding from the media and city
other public fora                                 L      l    i     r
Reduction of flood-related                        Less political interference in
traffic congestion delays                         KCC management
Encourage and enhance KCC's    On schedule, on budget        Budget and progress
ability to plan, manage and execute completion of construction  reports which adhere to the
complex investment decisions and  program
programs                                                     Project Implementation
Plan
Establish the primacy of       Initiation of a fully funded  Semi-annual financial and
maintenance of key infrastructure  routine and periodic maintenance technical audits
investments                    program by KCC
Output from each component:    Output Indicators:            Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Restoration and efficient      For the main channel:         Monthly progress reports   KCC's comnnitinent to sustained
functioning of the main channel   *   I km rehabilitated in 2nd                       efforts at improving program
and drainage network               half of 1999                                       management and delivery
*   2.5 km rehabilitated 1st half                      capacity
of 2000
*   2.5 km rehabilitated 2nd                           KCC's ability to provide the
half of 2000                                      required counterpart funds
*   3 km rehabilitated in It half
of 2001                                           KCC's ability to set aside the
For the auxiliary works:                               required funds for O&M
*   1 work completed in 1999
*   1 work completed in Ist half
of 2000
*   2 works completed in 2nd
half of 2000
For the priority drainage "Black
Spots":
*   7 completed in 1999
*   10 completed in It half of
2000
* 10 completed in 2nd half of
2000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 25
Country: Uganda                                                      Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring & Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Efficient management and quality   The Construction Supervision    *   Monthly progress  KCC ensuring adequate quality
control of the civil works      Consultant will:                   reports               of civil works construction
construction                    *   Hold monthly site meetings  *   Quarterly report on
*   Make timely submission of     CSC services
the monthly progress      *   Inception report
reports                   *   Completion report on
*   Make timely submission of     completion of
quarterly report on CSC       construction
services                  *   Final completion
*   Make submission of            report
inception report within two
weeks of substantial
mobilization by the
contractor
*   Make submission of
completion report on
completion of construction
works in the 4th quarter of
2001
* Make submission of final
completion report after the
defects liability period in
the 4t quarter of 2002
within 4 weeks.
Kampala Drainage Master Plan    The Consultant will:
*   Make submission of        *   Inception report
inception report after four   *   Quarterly progress
weeks within the date of      reports
commencement              *   Preliminary report
*   Make submission of        *   Draft final report
quarterly progress reports    *   Final report
*   Make submission of the
preliminary report within
10 months after the date of
commencement
*   Make submission of the
draft fmal report after 18
months after the date of
commencement
* Make submission of the
final report after 24 months
after the date of
commencement
Kampala Urban Transportation    The Consultant will:
Improvement Programme Strategy  *   Make submission of        *   Inception report
inception report after four   *   Quarterly progress
weeks within the date of      reports
commencement              *   Interim report
*   Make submission of        *   Draft final report
quarterly progress reports    *   Final report



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 26
Country: Uganda                                                    Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance indicators   Monitoring & Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
*   Make submission of the
draft interim report within
10 months after the date of
commencement
*   Make submission of the
draft final report after 18
months after the date of
commencement
*   Make submission of the
fmal report after 24 months
after the date of
commencement
Kampala City Development       *   Investment and action plans *  Analytical outputs on   *   KCC' s continued
Strategy                           reflecting a bottom-up        poverty, social          commitment to the SFR
approach and ownership by    assessment, economic  *   Ensuring ownership of
Divisions by March 31,       and financial labor       development strategies by
2000                         markets and infonnal      the Divisions
*   5-year Divisional            sector                *   Divisions and Center
Development Strategies   *   Divisional 5 year        realigning from ad hoc day
(DDS) for ensuring growth    plans articulating        to day interventions to
and poverty reduction by     participatory planning    strategic management
September 30, 2000       *   Setting up a city-   *   Effective governance at all
*   Consolidated summary of 5    umbrella structure for    levels
DDS from the 5 Divisions     the CDS
by March 31, 2001        *   Comprehensive
*   Start participatory pilot    quarterly reports by
investments at the parish    Divisions and Center
level in each division by
June 30, 2001
Comprehensive revenue          Under a rates administration  *   Revenue mobilization  KCC's adoption of a rational
mobilization strategy          improvement program it is         strategy report      revenue mobilization strategy
expected that:               *   Rates administration
*   In FY2001 rates will go up   improvement strategy
from USh 2 billion (from    *   Business license
FY 1998 levels) to 4 billion  reform strategy
*   In FY2002 rates will go up
from USh 4 billion to 6
billion
Under a business license refonn
strategy:
* In FY2001 business license
revenues will be increased
from USh 1.3 billion (from
FY 1998 levels) to 2 billion
Increased proportion of private    By June 30, 2002 the following
sector delivery of services    will be done:
* 100% of grass cutting, tree
cutting and gardening to be
contracted out



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 27
Country: Uganda                                                    Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring & Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
*   50% of refuse collection,
transportation and disposal
to be contracted out
*   75% of all road patching,
sweeping, grading and re-
graveling to be contracted
out
*   75% of all cleaning and
maintenance of drains to be
contracted out
*   100% of routine
maintenance and major
repairs of KCC's fleet of
vehicles and equipment to
be contracted out
*   70% of maintenance of
street lights and traffic
signals to be contracted out
*   100% building maintenance
to be contracted out
Effective and timely delivery of   *   Adoption of service-based   Monthly progress reports   KCC ' s adoption of a rational
KCC's SFR                          annual budgets by June 30,                         and prioritized expenditure
2000                                              framework
*   100% of rationalization of
the legal framework to be
completed by June 30, 2001
*   75% of the implementation
of the restructured
organizational set-up of
KCC will be completed by
June 30, 2002
Project Components I Sub-      Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:         (from Components to
components:                    component)                                             Outputs)
A. Main channel and feeder      9.3 km of channel works and                           Capacity of international and
drainage rehabilitation and Black   auxiliary works at 4 locations as                 local contractors to effectively
Spot emergency drainage program   well as Black Spot emergency                        complete the works.
(ancillary drains)             works within the channel
catchment (US$17 million)
B. Consultancy Services        Procurement of a Construction                          Appropriate selection of
(i) Construction Supervision   Supervision Consultant (US$1.2                          consultants
million)
C. Program and Policy Studies  Procurement of a design                                Appropriate selection of
(i) Kampala Drainage Master Plan  consultant (US$1.2 million)                          consultants
(ii) Kampala Urban Transportation  Procurement of a urban transport                    Appropriate selection of
Improvement Prograrmme         consultant (US$1.3 million)                             consultants



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 28
Country: Uganda                                                    Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring & Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
D. Institutional support
(i) KCC Reform Program under
the SFR
*   Kampala City Development  Procurement of consultants and                          Adherence to the principles and
Strategy                  works (US$0.5 million)                                  modalities of the SFR
*   Revenue Enhancement        Procurement of consultants and                         implementation plan.
Programme                 works (US$1.0 million)
. Conracin ou Service Provide seed funds to the
Contracting ounctiasi      Divisions to procure services
Delivery Functions         (USI.3 million)
*   linplementation Support and  Procurement of local consultants,
Training                   training, etc. (US$1.1million)
(ii) Goods                     Procurement of goods (US$0.32
million)



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 29
Country: Uganda                                        Project Ttle: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 2: Project Description
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
1.   The Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project is largely a civil works project aimed at enhancing
the capacity of the main drainage channel, feeder drains and key ancillary drainage to reduce the incidence
and frequency of flooding in Kampala. In this context, it includes some important studies such as the
development of a Drainage Master Plan for Kampala and a Kampala Urban Transportation Improvement
Programme to address the issue of urban transport management which is becoming critical given the rapid
growth that the city is experiencing. In addition, the long-term aim of this project is to further fundamental
institutional reforms by supporting the KCC's institutional reform program under the Strategic Framework for
Reform initiated under the First Urban Project.
2.   The project's physical objective is to alleviate the frequent and increasing incidence of flooding
in Kampala, which has adverse effects on the road network, traffic flow, and overall urban living conditions
in Kampala. Design for a 1: 100 year return-period storm, the preferred option, is not a practical option,
owing to physical constraints, including existing development on either side of the present channel reserve.
Instead, due to these constraints and in order to allow rapid implementation of the project with minimal
impact on adjacent residential and other development, the flow carrying capacity of the Nakivubo Channel
will be increased under NCRP to allow discharge of the runoff within the catchment area for the 1: 10 year
return-period storm. Bridges and other concrete structures along the channel will be designed to allow free
discharge through the structures of the 1: 100 year storm, thereby allowing future improvements to the channel
flow carrying capacity to be carried out without requiring costly alterations to these structures.
3-.   The project's institutional objective aims toward: (i) encouraging and enhancing KCC's ability
to plan, manage, and execute complex investment decisions and programs by using this operation, which will
be the largest civil works project that KCC has ever undertaken, as a testing ground to support KCC's reform
program; and (ii) establishing the primacy of maintenance of key infrastructure investments. Activities to
further support this objective include formulation of a comprehensive City Development Strategy for the
medium to long term, undertaking revenue enhancement activities specifically property tax reforms and
providing support to firther KCC's institutional reform program under the Strategic Framework for Reform
initiated under the First Urban Project.
By Component:
A. Project Component 1 - US$17 million
Civil Works
(a) Main Channel Works: Under this component 9 km of channel will be de-silted and rehabilitated, the
major part having sides lined with gabions to the top including free board and the bed in unlined earth.
Starting upstream, chainage 0+390 to 0+950, minor repairs to the concrete and stone pitching lining will be
carried out. From chainage 0+950 to 1+435, repair of existing stone pitching and raising of the sides will be
done. From chainage 1+435 to 2+625 widening and replacement of the existing dry weather flow channel
with a concrete one will be carried out. From chainage 2+625 to 6+950 channel sides will be constructed with
gabion boxes. From chainage 6+950 to 9+000 earth channel having sides planted with grass will be
constructed. At several special sections due to space restrictions or sharp bends reinforced concrete will be
constructed i.e. chainages 2+625 to 2+680; the "S" bend after Mukwano Industry near chainage 4+000, about
40m long; 6+950 to 7+100 (bend after 5th street).



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 30
Country: Uganda                                       Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
All along the rehabilitated channel from upstream to downstream, the various existing culverts and
bridges will be widened to accommodate the new channel widths. Similarly, existing footbridges will be
replaced with larger ones while several new ones will be constructed at points of increased pedestrian traffic.
Guardrails and rubbish screens will be installed at various strategic points along the channel. Realignment
and/or protection of existing utility services such as water mains, sewer mains, telephone and electricity
cables will be done where necessary.
The channel is designed for a ten year return period storm, while all culverts along the channel and
bridges are designed for a one hundred year return period storm.
(b) Auxiliary Works: In addition, four major auxiliary drainage works close to the Nakivubo Channel or its
tributaries which also contribute to the flooding problem, will be rehabilitated to handle a ten year return
period storm. These are:
(i) Clock Tower Roundabout where proposed improvements include construction of stone pitched and
concrete lined drains across the road width; installation of large diameter culverts and box culverts;
construction of large diameter storm water catch pits to replace existing 150mm-200mm ones; and
clearing of existing underground drains.
(ii) Lugogo/Uganda Manufacturers 'Association 's Showground where improvements include widening
and lining of about 200m of the channel and drain; and construction of large diameter storm water catch
pits and access culverts.
(iii) Kafumbe Road/Kisenyi Lane Junction where improvements include demolishing and removal of
existing pipe culverts and replacement with box culvert across the road; blockage of several pipe culverts
and diversion of storm water to an adjacent open drain; reconstruction and widening of an existing drain;
and reconstruction of Kisenyi Lane over a portion of the proposed box culverts.
(iv) Makerere Road/Aga Khan Secondary School where improvements include demolishing of an existing
culvert and replacing with two large diameter pipes; trimming, shaping and stone lining 50m of channel;
construction of a silt trap and reconstruction of a section of road over the proposed culvert.
(c) PriorityDrainage "Black Spots"Rehabilitation Program: For farther enhancement of storm water flow
and minimizing of traffic congestion, 27 drainage "black spots" have been identified for rehabilitation within
the Nakivubo channel catchment. Under this component drains, channels and catch pits will be desilted,
rehabilitated and widened in the following problem areas in Kampala city and within the Nakivubo Channel
catchment:
Mengo Hill Road (opposite Pan Africa Square); Kafumbe Mukasa Road; Nakivubo Place (Road) No. 1;
Nakivubo Place (Road) No.2; Nakivubo Green; Nakivubo Road (adjacent to Afrique Guest House); Allen
Road (at Junction with Namirembe Road) ;Wilson Road/Burton Street; Station Approach (adjacent to
Railway Station main entrance);Nile Avenue (Crested Tower Roundabout); Jinja Road/Yusuf Lule Road
Roundabout; Mukwano Road; Seventh Street next to Caltex Depot; Fifth/Seventh Street Junction; Old
Port Bell Road (opposite Uganda Meat Packers); Old Port Bell Road (adjacent to Wankoko); Old Port Bell
Road next to Shell Petrol Station; Old Port Bell Road next to Bugolobi Market; Luthuli Avenue next to
Bandali Rise; First Street (adjacent to Ange Noir Night Avenue); Lugogo Bypass/Coronation Avenue;
Kira Road (near the market); Kira Road (near Mariandina Clinic); Acacia Avenue/Mabua Road Junction;
Yusuf Lule Road (North) Roundabout; Bombo Road/Gayaza Road Roundabout; and Makerere Hill Road
(opposite Baptist Church).



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 31
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
B. Project Component 2 - US$1.2 million
Project Implementation Support i.e. Construction Supervision
Under this component consultant services for supervision of construction of civil works will be
provided through a Construction Supervision Consultant. The primary objective is to ensure that the physical
works implementation of the Nakivubo C.hannel Rehabilitation Project is accomplished to a high degree of
workmanship and quality of materials, on schedule and within budget, in accordance with the contract
drawings and specification, and to acceptable environmental standards.
C. Project Component 3 - US$2.5 million
Program and Policy Studies
(a) Kampala Drainage Master Plan Study: Under this sub component a comprehensive Kampala drainage
master plan study will be undertaken. In the study a survey and update of Kampala's drainage systems,
environmental and social/economic status will be carried out. The Plan will come up with an analytical report
on the current situation and projections into a twenty year horizon, including preliminary designs and costs
for the necessary improvements. A phasing of the proposals will also be included to allow for a staged
implementation program.
(b) Kampala Urban Transportation Improvement Programme Study: Under this sub component a
comprehensive study for long-term improvement of urban transportation in Kampala will be undertaken.
Given the inherent inter-linkages between roads, drainage and transportation KUTIP is intended to provide a
framework for addressing these issues in a coherent and coordinated manner. This will then enable
implementation of phased priority programs for the improvement of urban transport. The study will include a
status survey and future projections of transportation issues including environmental, socio/economic and
physical development of Kampala City.
Project Component 4 - US$4.2 million
Institutional Support
Under this component immediate and long-term measures will be implemented in support of the
ongoing initiatives under KCC's Strategic Framework for Reform Program for a broader and long-term
agenda of policy, institutional and operational reforms.
(a) The process of developing a Kampala City Development Strategy will be initiated, whose immediate
objective is to pilot a participatory, replicable and sustainable process or approach to urban/local development
in Uganda that can maximize the potential for growth with poverty reduction.
(b) Revenue Enhancementactivities will be initiated in the form of immediate improvement of property tax
revenues. This will be done by restructuring the "collection privatization" system and improving the
administration and incentive structure for billing, delivery, collection and enhancement. In the short-term, a
Fiscal Cadastre at two pilot sites shall be built for developing a data management system and mobilizing data
collection systems. For the long-term, mass valuation alternatives for the City of Kampala will be explored.
In addition, enhancement of KCC's other revenues such as license fees will also be addressed.
(c) Under the SFR, KCC made an executive decision that in order to improve basic service delivery in its five
divisions, various minor works such as maintenance of smaller feeder drainage, cleaning and maintenance of
refuse skips, grass cutting, small road maintenance works such as patching, etc. would be contracted out. The



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 32
Country: Uganda                                              Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
main problem, however, is that the divisions are currently very cash stapped and require some financial
assistance in the interim period, before benefits from revenue enhancement measures can be realized, to
specifically pay for contracted out services. In this context, Seed Funds to Facilitate Contracting out of
Basic Service Delivery Functions in the five divisions of KCC will be provided.
(d) The Strategic Reform Program is being managed by the Core Team in KCC which will receive
implementation support in the form of resources required to hire local consultants along with the requisite
administrative and office support and training and some equipment.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 33
Country: Uganda                                       Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Project Cost By Component            US$ million        Fore gn         Total
Civil Works                                    3.400          10.200          13.600
Consultancy Services                           0.336           0.624           0.960
Program and Policy Studies                     0.600            1.400          2.000
Institutional Support                          2.176            1.200          3.376
Total Baseline Cost                               6.512          13.424          19.936
Physical Contingencies                         0.326           0.671           0.997
Price Contingencies                            1.302           2.685           3.987
Total Project Costs                               8.140          16.780          24.920
Total Financing Required                          8.140          16.780          24.920
Local           Foreign          Total
Project Cost By Category            US$ million      US$ million    US$ million
Goods                                              0.030           0.290           0.320
Works                                              4.250           12.750         17.000
Services                                           3.530           3.470           7.000
Training                                           0.060           0.240           0.300
Other                                              0.270           0.030           0.300
Total Project Costs                                   8.140          16.780         24.920
Total Financing Required                              8.140          16.780         24.920



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 34
Country: Uganda                                         Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Economic Analysis:
1.   Recommendation: The hybrid channel lining was assessed to provide the optimum solution. For the
one in ten-year storm return period with the hybrid channel lining, for a 40 year project life and estimated
investment costs of US$18.2 million equivalent, the estimated Net Present Value is US$ 15.1 million
equivalent and Internal Rate of Retum is 24%. A 12% discount rate is used in the study, and cash flows are
presented in terms of Ugandan Shillings and converted at a rate of US$ 1=1000 UShs. The result is robust
and does not depend on any one single variable. The ten-year storm return period design option with hybrid
channel lining will require no additional land acquisition. The one in ten-year storm return period will have
substantial impact in reducing the frequency and incidence of flooding. The chance that a storm of the scale
of 1 in 100 year return period may happen is less than 25% (1-0.6689=0.2311).
2.   Methodology Adopted: The basis of the economic evaluation is cost benefit analysis with the "with"
and "without" project situation. Construction costs estimates for the three storm return periods considered
were based on engineering estimates. However, estimating the quantifiable benefits/savings presents
significant data problems. To overcome the lack of these data problems, different approaches are used to
estimate each proxy variable. The approaches are explained for each variable in the main report (see the
Economic Analysis in the Documents in the Project File [Annex 8 to this PAD] for further details).
3.   Main Assumptions:
Main Assumption:
Design life of the Channel                   : 40 years
Construction commencement! Base year         : 2000
Traffic growth                               : 3% per annum, 1999- 2010
Traffic growth                               : 2% per annum, 2010-2040
Real discount rate                          :12% per annum
Residual value                               : zero
Cashflows: Cash flows are presented in terms of Uganda Shillings, with foreign exchange
requirements converted at an exchange rate of USD 1=lOOOUSh (the average exchange rate between
the period 1992 and 1998 inclusive was USDl=106OUsh).
Construction period: A two-year construction period is assumed in the preparation of the bid
document. This is considered reasonable, given the repetitive nature of many of the construction
activities and relatively simple technology.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 35
Country: Uganda                                             Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Frequency, Duration and Coverage of Flooding: In the memory of the people interviewed, flooding
occurs 10 to 15 times a year and the most intense flooding in the 1990s was the one in 1996. The
frequency of flooding varies over the length of the channel. In the upper part of the channel the
flooding frequency is three to four annually. According to the tenants and govemment officials
interviewed, after every heavy rain, the Clock Tower Roundabout and surrounding area, the Access
Road to the Clock Tower and the Industrial Area are flooded. For the purpose of the benefit estimates
the average frequency of 10 floods per year is assumed. The duration of the flood lasts on the average
about two to three hours after heavy rains. An average of two hours is taken as a basis of benefit
estimates.
4.    Design Scale Choice - Altemative Storm Retum Periods: The technical study generated and evaluated
technical solutions for channel design criteria, channel alignments and channel sections. Based upon these,
the following design scale of the project options were identified for the economic evaluation:
*  one in ten-year return storm period;
*  one in fifty-year storm  return period; and
* one in one hundred-year storm return period.
5 .   Table 1 summarizes buildings, roads etc. that could be affected in the event of a 1 in 1 0-year, 1 in 5 0-
year or 1 in 100-year storm occurrence.
Table 1: Property Affected by Different Flooded Zone
Impact of Design 1 in 10-Year Storm Return Period (hectares)             l
Zone \ land use   Buildings  Roads & squares Vegetation's  Others    Total        %
Absolute value
1 in 10-year      12.4         10.0            55.4       14.6       92.4
1 in 50-year     51.9          24.7            82.6       35.6      194.8
I in 100-year  1  81.5   1     28.6            97.6        48.7     256.4
Incremental Values
1 in 10-year      12.4         10.0            55.4       14.6       92.4  1  36%
1 in 50-year     39.5          14.7            27.2       21.0      102.4      40%
I in 100-year     29.7          3.9            15.0        13.1      61.7      24%
Total          81.5         28.6            97.6       48.7  J 256.4       100%
6.     Technology Choice -Five Alternative Channel Linings: Based on a 40-year design life of the project,
the following five channel linings were evaluated in relation to their sustainability (maintainability),
availability of land, technical, social and fiscal constraints. Overall, the hybrid channel lining is assessed to
provide optimum solution. The hybrid channel lining not only merges the best attributes of the other four
options along the different sections of the channel, it is also deemed most sustainable (maintainable) over the
design life of the project. The hybrid channel lining also approaches the least cost solution.
*  Grass earth side slope (Earth);
*  Stone masonry (Stone);
*  Wire mesh gabions and mattresses (Gabions);
*  Reinforced concrete for side slopes and retaining walls (Concrete); and
*  Hybrid (a combination of all of the above as appropriate - earth, stone, gabions and
reinforced concrete).



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 36
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
7.   Channel Alignment: For the most part the design maintained the existing channel alignment and has
not made any major alteration in the channel route except for the elimination of the local meandering.
8.   Land Acquisition: KCC has already acquired adequate land for the one in ten-year return period for the
hybrid, stone and concrete channel linings. Additional land will only be required for the earth and gabion
channel linings for the 1 in 10-year storm and for all linings for 1 in 50-year, 1 in 100-year storm return
periods.
9.   Cost and benefit variables used in the analysis: The four variables used to estimate the costs are: (i)
construction cost; (ii) land acquisition cost; (iii) operations and maintenance costs; and (iv) cost of
construction impact mitigation. The four main quantified variables used to estimate benefits are: (i) reduction
in damages to building structures and property due to recurrent emergency costs (rental differential between
flooded and non-flooded areas); (ii) reduction in damage to road assets; (iii) savings in vehicle operating
costs; and (iv) passenger time savings.
10.  Results of Economic Analysis: Based on the foregoing assumptions and methodology, the estimated
net present value and intemal rate of retums for the I in 10-year, the I in 50-year and the I in 100-year stonn
return periods with each of five alternative channel linings were calculated and are summarized below. Also
shown is the net present value for the "without" project case based on reduction of about 10% in flooding
time due to improved maintenance.
Table 2: Summary of NPV & IRR Estimates*
(NPV in billion Ugandan Shillings)
Construction Methods/                                               Stone      Reinforced
Storm Return Period         Earth       Gabions       Hybrid       Pitching     Concrete
"Without" Project
NPV                         18.5        N.A           N.A          N.A          N.A
IRR*                        15%         N.A          N.A           N.A          N.A
"With" Project
1 in 10-year
NPV                       20,640        16,385       15,067        8,493         6,889
IRR                         37%          26%          24%           17%           16%
1 in 50-year
NPV                       14,055        10,636        8,341         1,762        2,177
IRR                         22%          19%          17%           13%         13.0%
1 in 100-year
NPV                        12,456        8,664        6,408       (1,560)      (2,441)
IRR                         20%          17%          15%           11%           11%
If expected damages to buildings are included**
1 in 50-year
NPV                       24,382        20,963       18,668        12,088       12,504
IRR                         29%          24%          22%           17%           17%
1 in 100-year
NPV                       27,277        23,486       21,224        13,262       12,381
IRR                         29%          24%          22%           17%           16%
* Includes all the four quantified benefits. Present value based on 12% discount rate and 40-year design life of the
project
** Result if current land use is kept



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 37
Country: Uganda                                            Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
11.  For the 1 in 10-year storm return period with the hybrid channel lining, for 40 year project life and
estimated investment costs of US$18.2 million equivalent, the estimated Net Present Value is US$ 15.1
million equivalent and intemal rate of return is 24 %. A 12 % discount rate is used in the study, and cash
flows are presented in terms of Ugandan Shillings and converted at a rate of US$ 1=1000 UShs.
12.  Substantial Net Present Values and IRRs are demonstrated for the rehabilitation/restoration of the
Nakivubo Channel. The main sources of benefit are savings from reduction in damages to buildings and other
properties.
13.  The 1 in 10-year storm return period design option with hybrid channel lining will require no additional
land acquisition. The 1 in 10-year storm return period will have substantial impact in reducing the frequency
and incidence of flood. The chance that a storm of scale of 1 in 100 period may happen is less than 25% (1-
0.6689=0.231 1).
14.  Two sets of NPV and IRR estimates are made for the 1 in 50-year and 1 in 100-year storm return
periods. The first is based on socially (market) recognized values as reflected in rent differential. The survey
did not reveal any systemic differences in the "non-flooded" area, as the zone outside the I in 10-year storm
area is popularly recognized. The second is that given the probability of occurrence that storms of 1 in 50-
year and 1 in 100-year return periods is significant (Table 4), the damage, i.e. the costs of removing debris
and repairing damages are related to the frequencies of the flooding incidents. The result based on this latter
assumption provides significant returns, assuming that the land use pattern remains the same over the next
forty years (Table 2).
15.  Sensitivity of results: The benefit variables which most influence the project net benefits are noted
below.
Table 3: Summary of Results of Switching Values for 1 in 10-year
Hybrid Channel Lining
Variable                                     Switching value
Construction costs                           106%
Savings from Property Damages                70%
Savings in Road investnents                  Does not reduce NPV to zero at 100% of value of
incremental road hinvestmecnt 
Vehicle Operating Cost Savings               Not sensitive at 100% of value
16.  The switching of the values indicates that the most critical value is the differential rent. A decrease of
more than 70% will be required to reduce the net present value to zero. In other words, only 12%
(=40%*30%) of the total aerial area needs to be rented to reduce the NPV to zero at 12% of discount rate.
17.  However, even here, the probabilities of the expected values for each return period, that is 4 storms of
a I in 10, one storm each of I in 50, and I in 100-year return period can happen in the design life of the
project is shown below in Table 4. Also shown are the probabilities that no storm may happen during the 40-
year life of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 38
Country: Uganda                                            Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Table 4: Probability of Exceedance of Storm
Probability of    Expected value of  Probability that expected  Probability of
exceedance in    exceedance (no of   storm will occur over the  zero occurrence
Storm Scale        any one year (p)  storms) over the life   design life of the project   of 1 in 10; 1 in
of the project of 40    fx (4, 40, 0.1)      50; and 1 in
years (n); n*p                                100.
I in 10-year Storm        0.1              4                       0.2059            0.01478
return Period
1 in-50-year Storm        0.02             0.8 (= 1)               0.3638            0.4457
Return Period
1 in 100-year Storn       0.01             0.4 (=1)                0.2703            0.6689
Return Period
18.  Project Beneficiaries: The project benefits several groups:
* the commercial, industrial and residential property owners and tenants;
* the Government of Uganda and Kampala City Council;
* vehicle operators;
* passengers; and the
* general public.
19.  Most of the quantifiable benefits from the project would accrue to commercial, industrial and
residential property owners and tenants within the areas which are relieved from cost of repairs and recurrent
emergency expenses.
20.  The improved reliability of urban road usage, beside reduced transport costs, is likely to encourage
industrial and commercial development in Kampala, resulting in increased economic activities in the
industrial and commercial zones, and job creation.
21.  The project will also have substantial fiscal impact. The Government of Uganda and Kampala City
Council would benefit from savings due to deferral of major investments arising from premature deterioration
of the road pavement. In addition, the reduction in frequent flooding and size of flooded area would result in
possible appreciation in the values of urban land and property in Kampala. This is likely to generate increases
in revenue from property taxation and can have positive fiscal impact on the City's finances and its capacity
for economic development.
22.  As a result of reduced flooding, vehicle operators would have lower vehicle operating costs.
Passengers will benefit from the restoration of accessibility during and following periods of rainfalls.
23.  Also, the City Council of Kampala, the residents of Kampala and the traveUling public, aU stand to
benefit from the non-quantifiable benefits. Most important in the course of implementation of the project,
KCC will get the opportunity to build its institutional and managerial capability for planning and
implementation of future investment projects and develop a culture for infrastructure maintenance, which are
major objectives in themselves.
24.  Although it is difficult to assign a direct link between disease and quantify the economic benefits,
because of the possibilities of infections in other areas, the functioning of Nakivubo Channel drainage works
will yield positive environmental and social benefits associated with reduction of health hazard, posed by
flood aftermath and risks to life. It will benefit low-income families who are engaged in commercial
activities and suffer substantial income loses annually as a result of the floods.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 39
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
25.  Prospects for Cost Recovery: The prospect for cost recovery from each of the beneficiaries is high, at
least for funding sustainable maintenance. Vehicle operating cost savings and higher rents are real resource
savings which the KCC can claim. Also, because of improved amenities, merchants on either side of the
channel can contribute to cost recovery. The City itself will have more financial resources to use for the
better development of the city with less outlays for road rehabilitation and maintenance. The increase in
property value can lead to higher tax income. It is understood that the whole property tax system will take
some time to establish. In the mean time to assure sustainability of the benefits from the project, some short-
term measures are being put in place.
26.  Economic and Financial Sustainability: As noted above, the real resource savings in vehicle operating
costs to road users are mainly out-of-pocket expenses. Indeed, the private financial savings to users exceeds
the social economic cost savings due to taxes on spare parts, fuel etc. Therefore, these users can be expected
to be willing to pay an amount up to the savings in exchange for the improved conditions. Similarly,
landlords are going to raise rents they charge to tenants, which up to now have been lower in "flooded" areas
to compensate tenants for the damages the tenants suffer and out-of-pocket expenses they incur in removing
debris and making repairs after each flood. The landlords must be willing to pass on to KCC in taxes, the
increases in rent in exchange for gains they receive from reduced flooding. The thousands of traders along
the banks of the channel can also be asked to pay higher fees for the amenities they enjoy and the time they
gain from transactions due to reduced flooding.
27.  To assure sustainability of the project benefits, until cost recovery through taxing is instituted, KCC
will finance the maintenance costs of the project from a separate escrow account into which a portion of its
commercial revenues will be channeled to provide for the operations and maintenance costs for the channel.
28.  Risks: The risks to the project implementation and sustainability of benefit arise from three sources:
*  financial risks associated with inadequate counterpart funds and inadequate maintenance funding;
*  institutional capacity risks associated with inadequate commitment to the strategic reform program
embodied in the institutional and operational reform program initiated under the ongoing First Urban
Project; and
* the risks that a 1 in 10-, 1 in 50- and/or 1 in 100-year storm may occur in the coming three years,
before the project is realized.
29.  The financial risk is associated with the sale of KCC's housing stock for generating the required
counterpart funds for the project. It is essential that this financing risk be addressed up front as a condition of
project effectiveness. The other financial risk is the availability of adequate funds for the operations and
maintenance of the channel. Although, this may not be an issue immediately, cost recovery measures
designed to improve the overall tax base will have to be pursued under the project.
30.  Since the probability of a 1 in 50 or 1 in 100-year storm return periods is real (see Table 4), KCC
should go ahead with mitigating measures such as delineating the flood plain area. The risk that over the
design life of the 40-year period the recommended 1 in 1 0-year design return period may be exceeded is
estimated to be 99%. That is, there is only a 1% chance that over the design life of the project the 1 in 10-
year storm return period could accommodate all the flooding that may occur over the design life of the
project. The risk could be reduced by choosing the 1 in a 50-year return option or 1-in 100-year return option.
These design scales will reduce the risk to 55% and 33% respectively. However, the tradeoff will require
accepting a lower economic rate of return for the same channel lining or accepting a channel lining that has a
lower construction cost. In addition, this strategy will cause inordinate delays due to land acquisition
problems thus postponing the benefits to be derived by adopting the 1 in 10-year alternative.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 40
Country: Uganda                                       Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Millions)
I         IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1      Year 2      Year3        Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             10.880      11.470        1.795        0.475
Recurrent Costs               0.000       0.150        0.150          0.0
Total Project Costs            10.880      11.620        1.945       0.475
Total Financing                10.880      11.620       1.945        0.475
Financing
IDA                          9.809      10.426        1.708        0.432
KCC                           1.071       1.194       0.237        0.043
Total Project Financing        10.880      11.620       1.945 1      0.475
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
Year 1  Year 2   Year3   Year4   YearS i Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        0.000   0.000    0.000  I 0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
Recurrent Costs         0.060  .0.060    0.060    0.060  l 0.060    0.060    0.060
Total Project Costs        0.060   0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060
Total Financing            0.060 i 0.060    0.060  l 0.060    0.060    0.060  ! 0.060
j Financing
IDA                     0.000   0.000    0.000    0.000    0 000    0.000    0.000
KCC                     0.060   0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060    0.060
| ~   ~       ~      ~_  I_  i                                 __    I _
Total Project Financing    0.060   0.060    0.060    0.060  l 0.060    0.060    0.060
Main assumptions:
Accounting Responsibility
1.   KCC will be the implementing agency for NCRP. It will be supported by a Core Team within KCC
which will be responsible for project implementation, overall project planning, accounting, monitoring and
reporting.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 41
Country: Uganda                                       Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Overview of Financial Management System
2.   Accounting System and Procedures: KCC is currently undergoing a restructuring of its accounting
system under the Strategic Framework for Reform. Progress has been made towards achieving a stronger and
more integrated financial management system but more actions need to be taken before the necessary reforms
are complete. The financial management system in KCC is mainly designed to meet the requirements of the
Local Governments Financial and Accounting Regulations 1998 and with reforms not yet completed, it is not
suited for reporting the project's financial performance in accordance with the requirements of LACI. However,
KCC is also the implementing agency for the IDA-financed First Urban Project, and initially, the financial
management arrangements for NCRP will be based on those of the First Urban Project.
3.   Manual Accounting System: The system currently in place is a manual based system, with
accounting transactions being recorded manually into books of accounts and reports and analyses being
produced on computer spreadsheets. The main books of accounts are: (i) Cash Book, (ii) Ledgers, (iii) Journal
Vouchers and (iv) Fixed Asset Register.
4.   Internal Controls: There are no manuals that document accounting procedures and internal controls.
There are also no clearly documented guidelines for the review of financial information that is generated from
the accounting system and reporting lines for financial management are not defined.
5.   Fixed Assets: A fixed assets register is used to record the project's fixed assets.
6.   Staffing of Accounting Department and Responsibilities: Even though large sums of money are
involved, there is a relatively small number of transactions handled by the First Urban Project. The
accounting unit is headed by the Programme Accountant. He is assisted by the Assistant Programme
Accountant and an accounts assistant. The Programme Accountant's responsibilities are outlined in the Core
Team's schedule of duties.
7.   Audit Arrangements: The First Urban Project's accounts are audited by a private firm of auditors
appointed by the Auditor General. The final report is signed by the Auditor General and is based on tests
carried out and conclusions reached by the appointed private auditors. The project's accounts have been
submitted to IDA as required by the terms of the credit agreement. Similar arrangements will be adopted for
the NCRP and the terms of reference for the annual audit will also be developed and included in the Financial
Management Manual.
8.   Bank Accounts: The First Urban Project operates two bank accounts, a Special Account and a Project
Account. NCRP will open 3 bank accounts for project purposes: a Special Account denominated in US
Dollars, a Project Account and an Escrow Account. The operations and maintenance funds for the
maintenance of the civil works investments financed under NCRP will be deposited into the Escrow Account.
Control procedures over all bank transactions will be fully documented in the Financial Management Manual.
9.   The Project Management Reports (PMR): Formats of the Project Management Reports (PMR)
required by the Bank under LACI are to be developed in accordance with IDA requirements by September 30,
1999.
10.  Conclusion: The financial management arrangements that are currently in place for the First Urban
Project are to be used for the NCRP. Based on an assessment carried out by a financial management
specialistthey meet the minimum financial management requirements under OP/BP1O.20, but are not
adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as
required by IDA for PMR-based disbursements. A plan of actions that will be required to be undertaken in
order to achieve this compliance has been drawn up in Chapter 8 on Financial Management of the Project
Implementation Plan (see Annex 8: Documents in the Project File of this PAD).



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 42
Country: Uganda                                       Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Procurement for Project Preparation
1.   The major consultancy undertaking during project preparation work was engineering design for the
Civil Works. This was financed under IDA funding through the ongoing First Urban Project and was
contracted following IDA guidelines for the use of consultants. The summary of the proposed procurement
arrangements are presented in Table A.
Procurement under the Project
2.   Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements provides a summary thereof. Total value of IDA-
supported consulting assignments will be US$5.7 million. These assignments mainly comprise policy
analysis, planning and design work, specific studies, construction supervision and institutional support.
Consultants would be hired in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September, 1997; Addendum Effective January 1, 1999).
Most consultant selection will be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed finns in which
the selection will be based on Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the
proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. Short lists for contracts estimated under
US$ 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least
three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they shall not be
excluded from consideration. Contracts less than US$100,000 each for firms and $50,000 each for
individuals may be awarded on a sole source basis subject to adequate justification and prior review by IDA.
For training US$ 0.3 million will comprise hiring of individual consultants, support for training programs,
seminars, workshops, attachments and fellowships. In addition, US$ 1.92 million will be spent on
institutional support for KCC's reform program. This will be in the form of seed money for contracting out
services, office and administrative support and equipment procurement.
3.   Procurement of works and goods will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995; Revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999). The one major civil works contract (IDA support and KCC's own resources valued at
approximately US$ 17 million equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of ICB. The works under this contract
comprise rehabilitation of the main channel, auxiliary works and priority drainage "black spots". Smaller-
value works contracts of individual value less than US$ 300,000 equivalent for an aggregate value of US$1.0
million equivalent may be awarded on the basis of NCB and those less than US$ 50,000 equivalent (minor
works) for an aggregate value of US$1.0 million equivalent awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
at least three qualified domestic contractors, in response to a written invitation. The bidding documents, bid
evaluation and award for minor works shall be acceptable to the Association. It has been agreed that
procedures for NCB to be used by KCC will be consistent with IBRD Guidelines on NCB; and the tender
documents used are based on the Standard Bid Documents of IBRD for all ICB, suitably modified. Contracts
for the procurement of goods supported by IDA (individual value US$ 300,000 equivalent and below) for an
aggregate value not exceeding US$ 500,000 may be awarded on the basis of NCB, and individual value
contracts of US$ 50,000 and below for an aggregate value not exceeding US$ 300,000 may be awarded on the
basis of National Shopping using approved procedures.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 43
Country: Uganda                                         Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
4.   The General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business Forum at least 60
days prior to the issue of bid documents. Specific Procurement Notices in accordance with the guidelines will
be issued before preparation of shortlists in respect of consulting contracts above US$200,000. The
Procurement Planning Schedules for consultancies, goods and works are included in Section 5 of the Project
Implementation Plan.
Implementation Arrangements
5.   The procurement for the contracts will be undertaken by the Core Team of the Kampala City Council
under the leadership of the Programme Manager. The procurement staff in the Core Team have undergone
training and carried out procurement of consultants, works and goods for the ongoing First Urban Project.
They will continue with the procurement activities under this proposed project. The Core Team's
procurement staff include three engineers and two accountants who will be provided with the necessary
administrative and secretarial support. The procurement staff will report directly to the Programme Manager.
Procurement specialists from the Kirklees Metropolitan Council of the U.K., KCC's technical cooperation
partner, will provide the requisite training and advisory services to the procurement team within the KCC
Core Team. Also, funds have been made available under this proposed project for additional training in
procurement.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review
6.   For procurement of works and goods, all contracts valued at US$ 300,000 or more will require prior
review by IDA. However, the first three contracts below US$ 300,000 will also be subject to prior review by
IDA. The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants by the borrower. For those
consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms; contracts worth US$ 100,000 and above will be subject to IDA
prior review; for individual consultants the prior review threshold will be US$ 50,000. However, the first
three contracts below US$ 1 00,000 will also be subject to prior review by IDA. The exception to IDA prior
review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring,
or assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of contracts raising the contact
value above the prior review thresholds. All contracts during the first year of the project, and selective
contracts thereafter, will be subject to post-review.
Disbursement
Allocation of Credit Proceeds (Table C)
7.   The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a)   90% of expenditures on civil works contracts;
(b)   80% of expenditures for institutional support; and
(c)   100% of expenditures for project implementation support, and program and policy studies.
8.   As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursement would be completed by four
months after project closure. Disbursement would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs)
9.   Disbursement would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for contracts and
purchase orders with an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review. The project is



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 44
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
expected to be compliant with LACI requirements by September 30, 1999 after which disbursements will be
made quarterly on the basis of Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs).
Special Account
10.  In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the project, it is
proposed that the Government establish a Special Account in the amount of US$1.5 million. Funds in this
Special Account would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the Project. During
negotiation, agreement would be reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the
Special Account.
Project Account
11.  In order to ensure the timely provision of counterpart funds, it is proposed that the Government/KCC
establish, a Project Account, at a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA, with an initial balance sufficient for
the first quarter by project effectiveness. The Govemment/KCC will replenish the Project Account every
quarter, with sufficient funds to meet the Government's share of expenditures under this project for the
ensuing 3 months, and the funds would be applied only for this purpose. During negotiations, agreement
would be reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the Project Account.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
A. Background
A procurement capacity/risk assessment has been done in the context of the proposed project. Given KCC's
prior track record on IDA procurement under the ongoing First Urban Project, it has been determined that
KCC has adequate and reliable procurement management capacity. Furthermore, under the proposed project,
procurement organization is fairly simple given that there are just four major contracts to manage which
include one large civil works contract (IDA portion of US$15.3 million), and three large consultancy
contracts (IDA portion of US$3.7). Of the total IDA financing of US$22.38 million for the project, contracts
worth about US$21.5 million are subject to prior review. In addition, as a part of project preparation
activities, KCC has demonstrated and delivered acceptable quality of outputs by way of the pre-qualification
evaluation report for the civil works contract, draft bid documents and the Letter of Invitation packages for
various consultancies.
B. Legal Framework
KCC follows the laws and regulations established by the Governnent of Uganda and described in the recently
completed Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR). The regulations are considered satisfactory
for procurement methods such as NCB and shopping. Bank procurement guidelines will be followed
throughout for all other procurement methods such as ICB and International Shopping.
C. Procurement Cycle Management
C 1. Procurement Planning
Procurement planning is satisfactory, and KCC has adequate staffing for it. For complex design, technical
assistance has been envisaged for the project.
C2. Procurement Cycle
The procurement plan is adequate and the implementation schedule is acceptable.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 45
Country: Uganda                                        Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
C3. Bidding Documents
Bid documents will be based on those previously used for the First Urban Project and conform to IDA
requirements. They are satisfactory and fully consistent with bank standard bid documents for ICB.
C4. Pre-qualification
Pre-qualification for the civil works contract has been carried out to IDA's satisfaction under the project.
KCC, with assistance from its technical adviser, the Kirklees Metropolitan Council of the U.K., would be able
to carry out any further prequalifications, if required.
C5. Advertisement
KCC follows all advertising procedures recommended by IDA.
C6. Communications between bidders and the procuring agency
No major issues were encountered under the previous project. Agency transparency in bidders communication
appears to have been satisfactory.
C7. Receipt of bids and bid opening
Bank recommended bid opening practices are followed. No transparency issues are expected under the
project.
C8. Bid examination and evaluation
KCC will require technical assistance from consultants for the evaluation of larger contracts and will engage
them accordingly.
C9. Contract Award and effectiveness
Bank recommended practices have been followed throughout in the previous First Urban Project. No major
delays are expected from the implementing agency, though approval by GOU may delay the process for
individual contracts.
C10. Contract Administration
KCC's capacity to manage and supervise contracts needs strengthening and will be reinforced through
training, (a workshop in procurement will be carried out at project inception) and by way of technical
assistance, particularly for construction works supervision and contractual handling. Regular auditing of
administrative actions will be undertaken at yearly intervals.
D. Organization and Functions
No changes are expected from the previous organization for the First Urban Project. The general assessment
is satisfactory, but will be further strengthened through technical assistance.
E. Support and Control Systems
Refer to Chapter 8 of the Project Implementation Plan on financial management (see Annex 8 to this PAD on
Documents in the Project File).
F. Record Keeping
Record keeping was satisfactory under the First Urban Project and is expected to remain the same.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 46
Country: Uganda                                           Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
G. Staffing
KCC has established a Core Team from its own staff who will carry out, under contractual terms, the
management and administration of the project. Given the small number of contracts under the project, a
procurement management team will be used for the length of the project. This team will be assisted for
complex tasks such as planning, contract management and supervision tasks by external consultants. Bid
evaluations will also be carried out by the KCC Core Team staff assisted by external consultants. KCC staff
will participate in a procurement workshop on Bank procurement procedures at project inception.
H. Risk Assessment
Average, given previous experience. Bank prior review procedures cover most of the procurement actions
under the project.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed
One every 3 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 47
Country: Uganda                                                 Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method"'
Expenditure Category              ICN NCB               Othei    N.B.F           Total Cost
1. Civil Works                            17.0                                              17.0
(15.30)                                          (15.3)
2. Goods
(a) Office furniture, computers                   0.09                                    0.09
(0.072)                                (0.072)
(b) Vehicles                                      0.23                                    0.23
(0.184)                                (0.184)
3. Services
(a) Services
(i) Contracted out services and                             3.7                       3.7
studies
(3.7)                    (3.7)
(ii) Contracted out Institutional               1.00         2.3                       3.3
Support                                   (0.8)        (1.84)                    (2.64)
(b) Office & Administrative                                     0.3                      (0.3)
Support                                                   (0.24)                    (0.24)
(c) Training                                                    0.3                       0.3
(0.24)                   (0.24)
Total                                     17.0        1.32         6.6                      24.92
(15.3)     (1.056)      (6.02)                   (22.376)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/    Includes minor works, goods, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management
office, training, technical assistance services, and operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and
(ii) allocating project funds to local government units, i.e., KCC's five Divisions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 48
Country: Uganda                                               Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
.___  ____                             Selection Method
Consultant
Services
Expenditure    QCBS          QBS        SFB        LCS        CQ        Other    N.B.F.    Total
Category                                                                                     Cost"
A. Firms             3.7        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        1.0        0.0        4.7
(3.7)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.8)      (0.0)      (4.5)
B. Individuals      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         1.0        0.0        1.0.
______________    (0.0)        (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.8)      (0.0)      (0.8)
Total               3.7        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0         2.0       0.0         5.7
l______________    (3.7)       (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)      (1.6)      (0.0)      (5.3)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Qualit-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 49
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category              Threshold              Method              Prior Review
(US$)                                       (US$)
1. Works
< 300,000               NCB                   > 300,000
> 300,000               ICB                   > 300,000
< 50,000       "National Shopping"
2. Goods                    < 300,000               NCB                   > 300,000
> 300,000               ICB                   > 300,000
< 50,000       National Shopping
3. Services
QCBS             > 100,000 (finns)
2 50,000 (individuals)
Single Source              All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$21.5 million



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 50
Country: Uganda                                          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in US$           Financing
million            Percentage
Civil Works                                          14.30                90%
Goods
(a) Office Equipment, Vehicles, Computers and      0.26                  80%
Software
Services
(a) Contracted Out Services and Studies            3.70                 100%
(b) Contracted Out Institutional Support           2.64                  80%
(c) Office & Administrative Support                 0.24                 80%
(d) Training                                       0.24                  80%
Unallocated                                          1.00
Total         22.38



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 51
Country: Uganda                                            Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           1 year                    1 year
First Bank mission (identification)                  02/27/98                  02/27/98
Appraisal mission departure                          03/22/99
Negotiations                                         3/29/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        7/1/99
Prepared by:
Kampala City Council
Preparation assistance:
Engineering Design, Design Review, Environmental Impact Assessment, Social Impact Assessment and
Project Implementation Plan prepared by consultants under KCC's supervision financed under the First
Urban Project (Cr. 2206-UG).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Gautam Sengupta                 Task Team Leader                                           X
Peter Templer                   Civil Engineer/ Engineering design
Hanim Magdon-Ismail             Municipal Engineer/ Procurement, Program Management, PIP
! Joseph Mubiru Kizito             Financial Management Specialist] Compliance with LACI
Ephrem Asebe                   Economist/ Economic Analysis
Aberra Zerabruk                 Lawyer/ Legal Agreements                                     l
Sudeshna RoyChoudhury           Operations Analyst/ PCD, PAD, PIP, Internal Bank Processing
Perla San Juan                  Task Team Assistant                                          I



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 52
Country: Uganda                                             Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis
C. Other
1) Civil Works - Draft Bid Document
2) Engineering Design Report
3) Strategic Framework for Reform (SFR)
4) Environmental hnpact Assessment
5) Social Impact Assessment
*Including electronic files



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                      Page 53
Country: Uganda                                                                                  Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Difference between
expected and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements a/
Project ID      FY       Borrower                   Purpose                          IBRD           IDA     Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 54
UG-PE-2941       1999    GOVT. OF UGANDA            ICB-PAMSU                          0.00        12.37       0.00       12.78       0.00          0.00
UG-PE-2972       1998    GOV                        EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED               0.00        80.00        0.00      83.18       0.00          0.00
UG-PE-40551      1998    GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA    NUTRITCHILD DEV                       0.00        34.00       0.00       34.79       1.15          0.00
UG-PE.49543      1998    REPUBLIC OF UGANDA          ROAD SECTIINST.SUPP               0.00        30.00       0.00       29.84      10.17          0.00
UG-PE-57007      1998    GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA    EL NINO EMERG RD REP                  0.00        27.60       0.00       28.40       8.18          0.00
UG-PE-2987       1997    GOVT. OF UGANDA            SAC III                            0.00       125.00        0.00      81.88      81.17          0.00
UG-PE-46836      1997    GOVT. OF UGANDA            LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                 0.00        12.10       0.00       10.12       1.97          0.00
UG-PE-297S       1996    GOVERNMENT                  ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMT              0.00        11.80        0.00       6.90       4.58          0.00
UG-PE-35634      1996    GOU                         PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI              0.00        12.30        0.00       8.02       3.31          0.00
UG-PE-2971       1995    GOVERNMENT                  DISTRICT H-EALTH                  0.00        45.00        0.00      27.73       5.25          0.00
UG-PE-2976       1995    GOVERNMENT                  INST. CAPACITY BLDG               0.00        36.40        0.00      18.10      10.61          0.00
UG-PE-2923       1994    GOVT.                      TRANSP. REHAB.                     0.00        75.00        0.00      42.29      33.97          0.00
UG-PE-2957       1994    GOVERNMENT                 SMALLTOWNSWATER                    0.00        42.30        0.00      25.21      16.75          0.00
UG-PE-2963       1994    GOVERNMENT                  SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                   0.00        50.00        0.00      24.35      12.74          0.00
UG-PE-2977       1994    GOU                         COTTON SECTOR DEVELO              0.00        14.00        0.00       4.86       3.08          0.3B
UG-PE-2938       1993    GOVERNMENT                 AGRIC. RES&TRG.                    0.00        25.04        0.00       3.72       -1.09         0.00
UG-PE-2953       1993    GOVERNMENT                  PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC              0.00        52.60        0.00      26.54      13.54          0.00
UG-PE-2975       1993    GOVERNMENT                  ECON & FINANCIAL MAN              0.00        29.00        0.00       0.02       -3.63         0.00
UG-PE-2968       1992    GOVERNMENT                  ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT            0.00        65.60       23.75       6.35      26.07         -0.23
UG-PE-2929       1991    GOVERNMENT                  POWER WII                         0.00       125.00        0.00       26.65     29.63         28.79
UG-PE-2933       1991    GOVERNMENT                  URBAN I                           0.00        28.70        0.00        4.29      3.38           0.00
Total:         o.oo      933.81       23.75      506.00     260.81         26.94
Active Projects          Closed Projects              Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  411.58                   1,738.56              2,150.14
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                    295.37                295.37
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   910.06                   1,362.63              2,272.69
Amount sold:                  0.00                      25.82                 25.82
of which repaid:                 0.00                     25.82                  25.82
Total Undisbursed:               506.00                        4.40               510.40



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 54
Country: Uganda                                                         Project Ttle: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
UGANDA
STATENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Dec-1998
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval            Company        _            Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1983                   Uganda Sugar                  6.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
1984/92                DFCU                          0.00    0.00     0.98     000    0.00    0.00     0.98     0.00
1992                   AEF Clovergem                 0.84    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00      0.00
1993                   AEFNile Roses                 0.16    0.00     0.00    0-00    0.16    0.00    0.00      0.00
1993                   AEFRwenzori                   0.58    0.00     0.19    0.00    0.58    0.00    0.19      0.00
1993                   Jubilee                       0.00    0.00     0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10      0.00
1994                   AEF Polypack                  0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00      0.00
j1994                   AEF SkyNblue                   0.51    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00     0.00
1994                   Celtel                        2.15     0.80    0.64    0.00    2.15    0.80    0.64      0.00
1995                   AEF Rainbow                   0.79    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00     0.00     0.00
1995/96                UgandaLeasing                 1.73    0.00     0.33    0.00    1.13    0.00    0.33      0.00
1996                   AEF Agro Mgmt                 0.58    0.00     0.40    0.00    0.53    0.00    0.40      0.00
1996                   EAGW                          6.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                   KaseseCobalt                  16.00    0.00    3.60    0.00   11.17    0.00    3.20      0.00
1997                   AEFConradPlaza                1.50    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                   AEF Metro Hotel               0.42    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                   AEF Kiiva Indust              0.25     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                   AEF Exec. hivmnt               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                   AEF Mosa Court                0.80    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00      0.00
1998                   AEF Skay Electro              0.22    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                   AEF WhiteNile                 0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                   Tilda Rice                    2.40    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
11998                   AEF KampalaFlwr               0.50    0.00      0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio         43.73    0.80     6.24    0.00   27.91    0.80    5.84      0.00
1 Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                   AEF RAM OIL                     1.00    0.00   0°00    0.00
1996                   KASESE COBALT                   0.00    0.00    0 00    5.00
Total Pending Commitment:      1.00     000 0°00°   5.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            Page 55
Country: Uganda                                                  -          Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                  Page 56
Country: Uganda                                                                 Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Sub-                                                1/13/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Uganda     Africa  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      20.3       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    330       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      6.7       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (96)                                       3.1        2.7      2.1
Labor force (°X)                                      2.7        2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                              capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  55
Urban population (% of total population)               13        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       42        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               99        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             26         ..       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (76 of population)                34        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   38        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  73        74        92            _     Uganda
Mate                                                 79        81       100                  Low-income group
Female                                               67        67        82
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..     3.9        6.1       6.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 6.3      8.4      16.0      15.3
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP                11.4     12.8      11.8      12.6                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   8.1      6.0        4.7       7.5
Gross national savingslGDP                   7.9       8.2      11.1      12.3
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      0.0      -8.2      -7.9     DometX
Interest payments/GDP                          ..     0.6        0.6       0.6      omesticInvestment
Total debtVGDP                                 ..    36.0       60.1      56.3     Savings                     Ivsmn
Total debt service/exports                    6.1    44.1       20.0      21.0
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      32.3        ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    264.5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.9      7.0      9.3       5.4       7.0               -Uganda
GNP per capita                      -0.2      3.7      6.6       3.0       4.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    11.8    27.2        29.5       9.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  73.3    56.6       45.5      43.8    69
Industry                                     7.5    10.2        16.0      17.3    40
Manufacturing                               6.1      6.4       7.8       8.2    20
Services                                     19.2    33.2       38.5      38.9                       o
Private consumption                            ..    85.0       85.1      82.6    -201    92   93   94   95   96   97
General government consumption                 ..     9.0       10.2       9.9 3GD1    - DP
Importsof goods and services                 9.6    15.2        23.       20.3
1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..      4.1       4.4       1.3    so
Industry                                       ..    11.0       18.1      14.5
Manufacturing                                ..    12.2       19.7      13.5
Services                                       ..      7.9       8.6       5.9    20
Private consumption                            ..      6.3       8.3       2.3     o         _0
General government consumption                 ..      6.1       8.4       7.0                       94 95   96   97
Gross domestic investment                      ..      7.0      10.0      -2.6    29
Imports of goods and services                  ..     6.3       13.0       2.0                Exports    --*Imports
Gross national-product                        1.8     7.1        9.8       6.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
tThe diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                    Page 57
Country: Uganda                                                                  Project Title: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         s0 -
Consumer prices                                  .   148.1        6.9       5.5    4 °z3    .
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..   137.3        5.7       6.6    30  -
20
Government finance                                                                 Ia
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0       I
Current revenue                                 ..      6.7      10.1      10.5            92   93   94   9s    96   97
Current budget balance                          ..    -1.6        1.2       0.9                -GDP deflator  -.=CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -4.4       -5.9      -6.0
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                              1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    379        590       671      1,500
Coffee                                        ..    360         404       366
Cotton                                         ..      ..        13        26
Manufactures                                  ..        ...                         .
Total imports (civ                              ..    380       1,218     1,246
Food                                          ..        .         .5 00 
Fuel and energy                                        61        90        92
Capital goods .
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      49         75       67            91  92  93  94  95  9s  97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      82        107      107                 CEports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      60         71       63
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996      1997      Currentaccountbalanceto GDP ratio (%)
(USs millions)
Exports of goods and services                 333      389       726       825       0
Imports of goods and services                 285      448      1,601     1,651
Resource balance                               48      -57       -875     -826
Net income                                     -7      -44        -46      -17
Net current transfers                           2      101       421       322
Current account balance                        43        0       -500      -521    -10
Financing items (net)                         -41       39       573       653
Changes in net reserves                        -2      -39        -73     -132    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..      86       480       622
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                --    10.9   1,012.8   1,058.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          244    1,414      3,674     3,708
IBRD                                          3       43         0         0                      G: 112
IDA                                          42      370      1,849     1,954                 F: 76
Total debt service                             20      172        150      182           E:727
IBRD                                          1        5         0         0
IDA                                           0        4        21        22
Composit'ion of net resource flows'0m.                                                                              B: 1,954
Official grants                               5       82       338                    D: 445                      B:s  S 
Official creditors                           25      121        175      207
Private creditors                             5       3          7         -
Foreign direct investment                     ..
Portfolio equity                              ..c:
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0        42       125      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 3       62       124       216      B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          1        2          8        9      c - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     2       60       116       207
Interest payments                             1        6        13        13
Net transfers                                 2       54       103       194
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                        1/13/99



CONSULTANCY                                                                  Annex 11: PROCUREMENTSTRATEGYAND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES                                                                                                    Page 58
SERVICES
Uganda: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
TERMS OF                                                       _
REFERENCE        SHORT LIST REQUEST FOR PROPOSA                         BID EVALUATION TECHNICAL (1) AND FIANCIAL (F)
ALLOCATED                                                                                                 BID        BID                                                CONTRACT  CONTRACT
PROCUREMEN LUMP SUM or  AMOUNT   PROCURING  PLANVS.  ADVERTISEMEN  SUBMITTED APPROVED   SUBMIT/  PREPARE  APPROVED  INVITATION  OPENING   REQUEST  APPROVAL   REQUEST  APPROVAL  AMOUNT    SIGNING    DELIVERY
ESCRIPTIO   T METHOD   TIME-EASDE   (USSM)        UNIT      ACTUAL     T AND SPN      DATE       DATE    APPROVE    DATE         DATE        DATE      DATE      DATE if)    DATE (T)   DATE (F)   DATE (F)   (US$M)     DATE    LATEST DATE
CSC       OCBS         Time               1.200    KCC    Plan                                              26-Apr-99   7-Apr-99  26-Apr-99   27-Apr-99 26-May-99  21-Jun-99   25-Jun-99   28-Jul-99   30-Jul-99        25-Aug-99   30-Sep-02
based                              Actual          7-Dec-98   4-Nov-98   9-Nov-98
Plan
Actual
KDMP      QCBS         Tihe               1.200    KCC    Plan                                              2-Jun-99 12-May-99   2-Jun-99    4-Jun-99   5-Jul-99   26-Jul-99   30-Jul-S99   1-Sep-99   3-Sep-99         29-Sep-99    30-Sep-01
based                              Actual           7-Dec-98   4-Nov-98   9-Nov-98
Plan
Actual
KUTIP    QCBS          TIme               1.300    KCC    Plan            17-May-99  10-Apr-99  15-Apr-99   6-Sep-99 16-Aug-99   6-Sep-99   7-Sep-99   6-Oct-99  28-Oct-99   3-Nov-99   6-Dec-99   8-Dec-99               3-Jan-00|  31-Dec-01
based                              Actual
Plan
Actual
Program   Other        Time               0.500    KCC    Planr                       17-Apr-09  28-Apr-00  28-Apr-00                     .-                                                                             30-Jan-0    30-Jun-02
ImppItaton             based                              Actual
Support
Plan
Actual
'Traininge Other       Time               D.300    KCC    Plan       .              1-Sep-9901 15-Jun-021 .          .         .          .                     15-Oct-999'1 28-Feb-021 i1-Oct-99I  28-Feb-02'            3-Jan-00    30-Jan-02
based                              Actual
Plan
Actual
'Revenue Other        Tkne               0.001    KCC    Plan                      2 2-Aug999) 14-Jul-001                                                      Dl' .  .  .  S1-oct-99'l) 15-Aug-Offl 01-Oct-991) 15-Aug-01f1  3-Jan-rO  31-Dec-00
enhment                based                              Actual
Plan
Actual
'Cos      Other        Tine              05.90    KCC    Plan      .-17-Aug-9991 3D-Mar-0111                        -   -                            -         lBOl.S140  1-5-May-SI41 18-Oct-9991) 15-May-DI-1          3-Jan-00    31-Dec-C1
based                              Actual
Plan
Actual
Office Adm Other       Time               0.300    KCC    Plan       -                17-Apr-00  28-Apr-00  28-Apr-00 -                   .          .          .          .          .          .                       30-Jun-00    30-Jun-02
& support (support     based                              Actual
staflQ'    staff)
Notes:
1. Training Includesa attachments, study tours, on job tralning, workshops etc.
2. Ofice administration andsupportstaff includes:- supportstafffor program managementand otheroike andfield expensesof the Core team.
-This sub-componenthasseveral repetitiveactions/steps. Date0) denotesthe beginning date ofthefirstaction/step. Oate(1 denotesthe enddateofthe lastacdn/step.



WORKS                                                      Annex 11: PROCUREMENT STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES                                                                   Page 59
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
SPECS AND QUANTITY  BIDDING DOCUMENTS                              BID EVALUATION REPORT
PROCUREM  LUMP SUM  ALLOCATED                                                                      TENDER                                      CONTRACT  CONTRACT
ENT    or BILL OF   AMOUNT   PROCURIN  PLAN VS. SUBMITTED   APPROVED   PREPARE   APPROVED  INVITATION  BID OPENING  REQUEST   APPROVAL   AMOUNT    SIGNING    DELIVERY
DESCRIPTION  METHOD   QUANTITY   (US$M)    G UNIT   ACTUAL      DATE        DATE        DATE        DATE       DATE       DATE        DATE       DATE       (US$)      DATE    LATEST DATE
Civil Works ICB      BOQ            16.000 KCC      Plan        20-Apr-99    26-Apr-99   18-Mar-99   26-Apr-99   3-May-99    2-Jul-99    6-Aug-99   110-Aug-99        30-Aug-99    2-Sep-02
- channel                                           Actual
- aux. W^ks
- brk spots
Plan
Actual
*Servioes  NCBP'NS' BOQ              1.300 KCC      Plan     23-Aug-99('3  15-Feb-01(4)    22-Aug-99 15-Feb-014) 6-Sep-99131  28-Mar-010) 29-Nov-99(3  18-May-014')  3-Jan-00(3)  31-Dec-01'41
under SFR                                           Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
-This sub-component has several repetitive actions/steps. Date(3) denotes the beginning date of the first action/step. Date(4) denotes the end date of the last action/step.



Annex 11: PROCUREMENT STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES                                                                                           Page 60
GOODS
UGANDA: Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
LISTS AND                                                BID EVALUATION
SPECIFICATIONS   BIDDING DOCUMENTS                              REPORT
ALLOC-ATED                                                              TENDER      BID                         CONTRACT  CONTRACT  DELIVERY
PACKAGE IFB PROCUREMEN   AMOUNT   PROCURIN  PLAN VS. SUBMITTED APPROVED  PREPARE APPROVED INVITATION  OPENING  REQUEST APPROVAL   AMOUNT    SIGNING    LATEST
DESCRIPTION     LOTS       NOS.       T METHOD      (USSM)     G UNIT   ACTUAL    DATE        DATE      DATE      DATE      DATE      DATE      DATE       DATE      (US$M)      DATE       DATE
Vehicle                  NCRP/S       NCB                0.200   KCC   Plan         22-Apr-99  29-Apr-9E  21-Apr-9U  29-Apr-99  5-May-gt 1t-Jun-99  30-Jul-99  6-Aug-99         16-Aug-99  30-NoB9U
Actual
Plan
Actual
Motor                    NCRP/6       NS                 0.030   KCC   Plan         18-Mar-99   -Apr-99 17-Mar-99   8-Apr-9U  15-Apr-99 14-May-99  18-Jun-99  28-Jun-99          2-Aug-99   U-Nov-99
Cycles                                                                   Actual
Plan
Actual
Computer                 NCRPI7a     NS                  0.035   KCC   Plan         15-Mar-99 19-Mar-99 12-Mar-99 19-Mar-U  26-Mar-Ut  16-Apr-99 17-May-99 26-May-9              29-Jul-99   5-Nov-99
H & S ware                                                               Actual
(stage 1)
Plan
Actual
Computer                 NCRP/7b     NS                  0.035    KCC   Plan        4-May-99 14-May-Ut  3-May-t9 14-May-99 2-May-99 29-Jun-99  6-Aug-99 16-Aug-99               30-Aug-99   3-Dec-99
H & S ware                                                               Actual
(stage 2)
Plan
Actual
Office                   NCRP/8      Nt                  0.020    KCC   Plan        16-Apr-Ut 22-Apr-99  14-Apr-Ut 22-Apr-Ut  6-May-9t  U-Jun-Ut  16-Jul-tN  20-Jul-Ut          16-Aug-96  19-Nut-9U
Furnfture                                                                Actual
Plan
ALAual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plan
Actual
Plun
Actual



UGANDA                                                                                      suDAN               NETHIOPIA'
NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                           Jobs
KAMPALA
0         NAKIVUBO CHANNEL                3900  -  ELEVATIONS IN FEET
-          RIVERS                                    MAIN ROADS                                                D EMUGANDA
- -- SEASONAL RIVERS                        '--  -  RAILROAD                                                 REP. OF
CtffJ  SWAMPS                              Eb    BUJILT-UP AREAS                                             CONGO            K mpa                   KENYA
t.,o-  LAKES                                -       COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                               q   .
DISTRICT BOUNDARY
This mop wos prdoced by the Mop Desin Unit of The Wortd Sek.                                                                                       
The boonsdories, colors, d.so,inolions sod osyonher isforestios shoown                                .Sytr7  f
on this msop do sot imply, so the port of TIe World Bioo Droo p, on t0          1             2             3 KILOMETERS                           b
judgment onth lgel snosoP Foy neitoly,or anyesooneso or                          I- dBs1osbuo9
sooeptoooe of sool bnoundories.                                                                                                                BUR  ,a        T A N Z A N I A
32 32                              ;336
' < -~                                   .3                                          _                         1                                         32'40"
0-24'                                                                                                                                                                                 24
p-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K    IEow-                                                                          -
e/                                      Bo~~~~~~~~~ 
'32'                                                       22'36                                                               I         '- 0~~u~  b



9   .   J   ,'   -J   ,   ,                                                                         !                       ,                                    X                             s   ETHIOPIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THO
\  ,  z   (    (t                                    UGANDA                                                                                                                     N 'THSDN\  ,
'.  'NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                         - - -                   >    SLOAN                              S
NAKIVUBO CHANNEL DETAIL                                              .                                                                   \ V  ¾7
NAKVUBOCHANNEL -1 I 00 EXISTING                                                .DEM
3900--- ELEVATIONS IN FEET             -    1:100 DESIGNED                                                          R E P  O F                          KF N/
MAIN ROADS                          1:50 EXISTING                                        -                 CONGO           Kon4S<  -/           EFRA
-    RAILROAD                       -_   1:50 DESIGNED                        !                              ,,                   ----   " -         NsroSrr
,  J ,                                                                      \                  BL0ILT-UP AREAS              1- :S EXISTING                                                                       RWAirA\,
KS  1n  IAN \                                         ' .                 .                                                                                                               _                             2 A N I A N
A'                 h l                     '                                                           N 
E,                                                                                           N                                           C-                         Er j I  ,:-   '   I   .   .   - '.,-'-                                                         ,.   ...-'
_- 2 \, ~ \ ° . ' i--orh 11altdarres
.~co                                                                                                             ,I/Al         A>   .   u               I            ..  -.
. -    t      X-   . .-                                                                                                                                        '3eo\               N .N<2                      AO        6B0 -1 I-) METERS
/                                         7 -.,--a ~,          t/                                                                                              _L           .1 _
4'       K'                                                                                               >5400            -A
77<  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''    9



