E-263
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
NAKIVUBO CHANNEL
REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
The Town Clerk
Kampala City Council
P. 0. Box 7232
Kampala, Uganda
February 1999



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment
Table of Contents
Page No.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.....................................................................................................1.................
1. BACKGROUND TO THE NAKIVUBO CHANNEL
REHABILITATION PROJECT .....................................................3
1.1   IntroductiQn            ......................................................3
1.2   Scope of the First Urban Project .....................................................4
1.3   Scope of Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project .....................................................4
2.0 EXISTING DRAINAGE PROBLEMS FACING KAMPALA CITY .......................................5
2.1   Clocktower Roundabout and Surrounding Area .........................................................5
2.2 Industrial Area                                                       .5
2.3   Other Problem  Drainage Areas (Black Spots) .....................................................................S5
3.0 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ................................................6
3.1   National Environmental Statute (1995) ......................................................................6
3.2   The Water Statute (Commencement) Instrument (1995) .......................................................... .      6
3.3 The National Policy for Conservation and Management
of Wetland Resources (1995) ......................................................................8
3.3.1   Water Balance Actiwties .....................................................................   .      8
3.3.2   Procedures to be followed by Prospective Wetland Resource Developers ........... 8
4.0 PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTALLY APPROPRIATE STRATEGY
FOR IMPROVED DRAINAGE ......................................................................9
4.1   Improvements to Nakivubo Channel ......................................................................9
4.2   Other Improvements (Auxiliary Works to Address Black Spots) ............................................9
5.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT ..................................                         .................................. 10
5.1   Nakivubo Channel Improvements                             ..0.................................................... LO
5.2   Auxiliary Works .....................................................................                              1Q
5.2.1   ClocktowerRoundabout                          ..0.................................................. i
5.2.2   Lugogo /UgandaManufacturers 'Association 's (A) Showground ................. 11
5.2.3   Kafumbe Road/Kisenyi Lane Junction ................................................................. 11
5.2.4   Makerere Road /Aga Khan Secondary School ...................................................... 11
6.0 DESCRIPTION OFTTHE ENVIRONMENT AT THE PROPOSED PROJECT SITES ....... 13
6.1   Project Location  .....................................................................                            13
6.2   Description of Features ..................................................................... 13
6.2.1   Land Use .....................................................................                        13



62.2   Natural Physical Resources (Air, Water, Soil) ..................................................... 14
6.2.2.1 Air Quality .....................................................                                14
6.2.2.2 Water Quality .....................................................                             14
6 2.2.3 Soils .....................................................                                      14
6.2.3   Natural Biological Resources .....................................................                        14
6.2.3.1 Flora .....................................................                                      14
62.3.2Fauna .....................................................                                        14
6.2.4   Economic Development .....................................................                                15
6.2.4. 1IndustrialArea .....................................................                            15
6.2.4.2Markets, Car Parks and Bus Stations .....................................................   15
6 2.4.3Railway Station and Yards .....................................................                  15
6.2.5   Socio-economic Status .....................................................                               16
6 2.5. 1 Residential and Commercial Areas ............................................................. 1 6
6.2.5.2Meadows and Waterlogged Surfaces .                                                                16
6.2.6 Quality of Life Issues ..                                                                                   16
6.2.7   Environmentally Sensitive Areas of Special or
Unique Scientific, Socio-economic or Cultural Value ..                                                   17
7.0 SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS                                                     ...                                        18
7.1   Beneficial Environmental Impacts .........................................................................1.....     .... 18
7.1.1   NakivuboChannelDrainageImprovements ...............................................                      . 18
7.1.2   Auxiliary Works Improvements ................................................                             18
7.2   Adverse Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures ..                             . ................................................. 18
7.2.1   Construction Activities ................................................                                  18
7.2.2   Vegetation Removal ................................................                                       19
7.2.3   Soil Erosion and Soil Compaction ................................................                         19
7.2.4   Traffic Disruption ................................................                                       20
7.2.5   Flow Diversion during Construction ................................................                       20
8.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES .................................................. 21
8.1   Introduction             .............................................................2............................. ....... 21
8.2   Nalivubo Channel Drainage hnprovemnents ....................................................................2....... 1
8.2.1 7The No Action Option                           ....... 21
&2.2 DesigningforMaximum Probable Flood    .                                          .21
8.2.3 Covered Concrete Channel                             ..21
9.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING ...22
9.1 Management Organisation                                 ..22
9.2 Personnel                                                                                   ..22
9.3 Resources                                                                                   ..22
9.4 Training                                                        .22
10.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN                                                                ..23
10.1 Surface Water Monitoring (location, parameters, frequency .23
10.2 Rainfall Data Monitoring .23
10.3 Flood Damage Assessment.                                                                                                  24
11.0 IMPACT MONITORING ..25



12.0 INTER-AGENCY AND PUBLIC/NGO/PRIVATE SECTOR INVOLVEMENT .................. 26
12.1 Interaction with the National Environmental Management Agency ....................................... 26
12.2 Other Beneficiaries and Affected Groups ..............................................................            26
12.3 Other Key Stakeholders ..............................................................                             26
LIST OF REFERENCES ..............................................................                                             27



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    The Nakivubo Channel is the main stonnwater drainage channel for the city of Kampala. More
than ninety-five percent (95%) of the developed central urban area of the city drains into this channel.
The main channel starts from springs located between Bat Valley Wandegeya and Makerere Kivulu to
the northwest of the city, runs southwards for some three kilometres to Clocktower Roundabout, then
turns eastwards for approximately five kilometres, through the Industrial Area of Kampala before
entering the swamp which leads to Lake Victoria, between Port Bell and Ggaba. The existing channel is
approximately 9 kilometres long, with a catchment area of approximately 27 km2.
2.    The Nakivubo Channel has not been adequately maintained or repaired. Much silting has
occurred and there are numerous areas where flow is severely restricted. There has also been increase in
development within the catchment, resulting in greatly increased stormwater runoff and peak flows. All
these have resulted in reducing the capacity of the channel and causing frequent flooding of adjacent
areas. The problem has created the need for the rehabilitation of the channel so that it can accommodate
the storm water volume.
3.    The proposed Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project (NCRP) includes deepening and
widening of the channel over most of its length, to accommodate the 1 in 10 year return period storm
flow. In addition, various portions ofthe channel will be lined with stone masonry, stone-filled gabions
and mattresses and reinforced concrete.
4.    One of the requirements for the Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project is the conducting of an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) to examine, analyze and assess the environmental soundness
and sustainability of the proposed project.
5.    From the overall assessment of the proposed rehabilitation of Nakivubo Channel, the project
presents beneficial impacts towards:
*     Reduction in number of flooding events in urbanised areas;
*     Reduction in flood levels in the Nakivubo Channel flood plain;
Enhanced aesthetics of the Nakivubo Channel (planting of trees, channel alignment,
channel lning, pedestrian footbridges, vehicular culverts and bridges);
*     Improved access (provision of footbridges);
*     Reduction of pollution levels (repair of leaking sewers, provision of trash screens across
the channel at several locations, increased number of solid waste containers, improved
solid waste collection);
*     Improved traffic circulation (widening of key bridges and culverts, reduction in flooding
incidents);
*     Reduced economic impacts of flooding on commercial activities;
*     Inmproved access for pedestrians during minstorm events (reduced ponding); and
*     Increase property values in the vicinity of the Nakivubo Channel.
6.    The rehabilitation of Nakivubo Channel will have minimum negative impact on the ecology of
the immediate area alongside the channel and in areas of raw material extraction. The various impacts
include effects on flora and fauna, soil compaction, soil erosion, alteration of landscape, decreased
aesthetics and other ecological risks during construction of the project. All these impacts will be
effectively mitigated by the contractor and the Kampala City Council.



-2 -
7.    This Environmental hmpact Assessment notes appropriate mitigation measures which will be
taken to address the environmental impacts during and following implementation of the project.
Responsibilities of various agencies during the construction and operation of the channel are identified.
An environmental monitoring system is also provided. Most of the adverse environmental impacts,
during the construction phase, will be short-term. Mitigation measures are included in the contract
document in order to ensure proper mitigation and effective monitoring. An altemative to the
rehabilitation of the Nakivubo Channel would be to construct a new channel. This alternative is less
favourable because it poses greater environmental impacts compared to the rehabilitation project due to
the topography of the catchment and the existing developments and is more expensive.
8.    Alternatives to the proposed rehabilitation project include (a) No action, (b) designing to the
maximum probable Flood (MPF), and (c) covering large sections of the channel. Option (a) is not
politically acceptable, options (b) and (c) are not economically viable at this time.
9.    No significant adverse long-term environmental impacts resulting from project implementation
have been identified.



1.    BACKGROUND TO TIHE NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.1   Introduction
I .    The City of Kampala is built on a series of hills which have moderate to steep slopes, typically
in the range 10-25%. More than 95% of the presently developed central urban area of Kampala drains
into the Nakivubo Channel, a natural drainage channel some 9 kilometers in length which discharges
into Murchison Bay, Lake Victoria. The total catchment area for the Nakivubo Channel is approximately
27 km2.
2.    At the present time, and owing to the present inadequate carrying capacity of the channel,
serious flooding of certain parts of town occur several times a year, causing considerable disruption to
traffic flows, flooding of industrial and other facilities, and consequent economic loss. Most flooding
problems associated with city roads in Kampala occur in the lower Nakivubo catchment downstream of
Entebbe Road. Other roads which are flooded during heavy rains include Allen Road and Nakivubo
Place.
3.    The Nakivubo Channel has been channelized in the past as increasing development within
Kampala has created higher runoff and reduced time of concentration for peak discharge flows, leading
to greatly increased peak stormwater discharge flows.
4.    The present condition ofthe Nakivubo Channel prevents it from perfonming as intended. The
channel is heavily silted, and there is an abundance of debris along most sections, preventing it from
operating at its maximum carrying capacity. Parts of the channel have been lined in the past, although
several parts have been washed away. Several stretches of the channel have no definite cross-section due
to erosion of the side banks.
5.    The present design capacity ofthe channel is not known. The channel is crossed by several
water and sewerage pipes, which trap debris carried down the channel, thereby reducing the channel's
already limited discharge carrying capacity. The channel is also crossed by a number of road and
railway bridges as well as pedestrian crossings.
6.    Substantial development has taken place within the channel's floodplain in the past, encroaching
on the channel width and further restricting the overall discharge capacity of the channel. Land
acquisition problems limit the potential for significant widening of the present channel reserve, without
resulting in protracted land acquisition and possible resettlement issues.
7.    The channel is generally considered to be in a poor state, owing to lack of proper maintenance
over the last several years. There is therefore a perceived need to rehabilitate the channel, in order to
correct existing deficiencies and increase its flow carrying capacity, as well as to make provisions for
effective operation and maintenance following its completion.



-4 -
1.2   Scope of the First Urban Project
8.    The IDA-financed First Urban Project (FUP), Credit 2206-UG, seeks to support the
Government's efforts to decentralize responsibility for the planning, design and management of service
delivery to local authorities. The project includes the following objectives:
a)  Improving living conditions and alleviating poverty in Kampala by restoring key
infrastructure services and related maintenance activities;
b)  Improving urban financial management by i) strengthening the revenue base of KCC, and
ii) promoting sound urban cost recovery policies;
c)   Strengthening institutional capacity by i) supporting decentralised local urban
management; ii) increasing Ministry of Local Government's capacity to assist local
authorities to increase their revenue base and strengthen financial management; and iii)
increasing KCC's capacity to manage urban land development.
9.    The project has helped restore some of KCC's credibility with respect to markets administration,
refuse collection and disposal, and the provision and maintenance of infrastructure, particularly roads
and storm drainage networks.
1.3   Scope of Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project
10.   The scope of the Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project (NCRP) consists of drainage
improvements and upgrading within the Nakivubo Channel drainage catchment area, including the
Nakivubo Channel from north of Kampala to the point of discharge in a swamp about 3 km from
Murchison Bay. The works to be carried out include:
e Repair, rehabilitation, localized realignment, deepening and widening of the Nakivwbo
Channel to increase the channel discharge capacity to correspond with the 1:10 year design
return period stonn. This will reduce or eliminate recurrent flooding in parts of Kampala,
including the Clocktower Roundabout and the Industrial Area;
*  Widening of culvert and bridge crossings as required to enable free discharge of the 1:100
year design return period storm through each of the culverts and bridges;
* In conjunction with culvert and bridge widening, lengthening of some culvert and bridge
crossings, including the culvert under Entebbe Road, to improve traffic flow and reduce
traffic congestion; and
* Auxiliary works to improve drainage of localized "Black Spots" both near the main channel
and along its tributaries, in order to help eliminate water ponding.



-5-
2.0    EXISTING DRAINAGE PROBLEMS FACING KAMPALA CITY
1.    The extent and cause of flooding in individual areas of Kampala are discussed in the following
subsections.
2.1    Clocktower Roundabout and Surrounding Area
2.    This is probably the area where the most disruptive flooding occurs. The flooding is attributable
to insufficient stormwater discharge-carrying capacity of the Nakivubo Channel, as well as to blocked or
inefficient storm water drainage in the general vicinity of the Roundabout. A tributary from Katwe to
the Nakivubo Channel in the area near the Clocktower Roundabout also contributes to flooding of the
Pan African Park and surrounding area.
3.    After moderately heavy rains, flooding occurs around the Clocktower Roundabout and along
Entebbe Road, as well as railway land east of the Clocktower Roundabout, and on both sides of the by-
pass road. The depth of flooding that occurs is sufficient to prevent cars and light vehicles from
negotiating the Roundabout. This Roundabout is one of the most important access points between the
Kampala city center and the main roads leading south towards Entebbe and its international airport on
Lake Victoria, and west towards the west and south-west of Uganda.
4.    The Nakivubo Channel often overtops, flooding the low-lying areas adjacent to the by-pass
road, including the sports field adjacent to the Police Training School on the far side of the by-pass road.
Much of the land adjacent to this by-pass road is lower than the road surface, which does not generally
flood.
2.2   Industrial Area
5.    Lack of carrying capacity in the Nakivubo Channel contributes to the severe flooding problems
which occur in the Industrial Area, notably Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Streets, and Kibira Road which are
seriously damaged during periodic flooding after major rainstorm events. In addition, surface water
takes some time to drain from the road surface in these areas, further aggravating the problems of
pavement damage.
6.    The Industrial Area drains into the Nakivubo Channel through some seven outlets located
behind Sixth Street, and one outlet located to the east of Fifth Street behind the oil depot. All of these
outlets are drowned during periods of high flow in the Nakivubo channel, which results in severe
restriction in their carrying capacity. Since most of the drainage systems in this part of the Industial
Area have recently been repaired and improved, it would appear that the major remaining measure which
can be taken is the rehabilitation of the Nakivubo Channel itself.
2.3    Other Problem Drainage Areas (Black Spots)
7.    A number of locations have been identified where, owing to improper drainage, the water is
unable to find its way down to the Nakivubo Channel without causing localised flooding. These areas
include: the crossing of a tributary at Kafumbe Road/Kisenyi Junction, Lugogo Channel and a drain
from across Coronation Avenue, a tributary crossing Makerere Road at the Aga Khan Schools.



- 6 -
3.0 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
3.1    National Environmental Statute (1995)
1.    The National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA) was created in 1995 under the
National Environmental Statute. In accordance with this statute, NEMA is responsible for the
management of the environment and shall co-ordinate, monitor and supervise all activities in the field of
the environment.
2.    The National Environmental Statute (1995) covers national environmental policy in Uganda.
Several sections of the statute contain provisions which may affect the Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation
Project. These provisions include the following sections which may be of relevance to the NCRP.
O Section 20: Environmental Impact Assessment - In accordance with this section of the
statute, developers are required to prepare an Environmental Impact Assessment if the lead
agency in consultation with NEMA is of the view that the project:
*  "may have an impact on the environment;
* is likely to have a significant impact on the environment; or
* will have a significant impact on the environment."
C  Section 24: Environmental Monitoring - In accordance with this section of the statute,
NEMA shall, in consultation with a lead agency, monitor the operation of the project with a
view to determining its immediate and long-term effects on the environment, using
appointed inspectors under Section 80 of the statute.
O  Section 27: Standards for Discharge of Effluent into Water - in accordance with this section
of the Statute, NEMA may, in consultation with the lead agency provide standards for the
discharge of effluents into water.
3.2   The Water Statute (Commencement) Instrument (1995)
3.    The Water Statute (Commencement) Instrument (1995) covers operation of water services in
Uganda. Several sections of the statute contain provisions which may affect the NCRP. These
provisions include the following sections which may be of relevance to the NCRP:
O Section 99(1): Interference with works - In accordance with this section of the statute, "A
person shall not cause or allow to cause or allow any works acquired, constructed or
operated under this statute to be interrupted, interfered with, altered, moved, damaged or
destroyed, except as provided in the statute."
O  Section 99(3): In accordance with this section of the statute, " In any proceedings for an
offence under this section, proof of the existence of any structure, obstuction or device on
land capable of causing an interruption, interference, alteration, movement, damage or
destruction is prima face evidence that on internption, interference, alteration, movement,
damage or destruction occurred attthe time that structure, obstruction or device is proved to
have existed."



- 7 -
O  Section 100(1): Tampering with Works - in accordance with this section ofthe statute, a
person shall not:
(a)  Uncover or expose any main, pipe, or other underground works vested in
a water authority;
(b)  Willfully or negligently break, damage, injure, open, alter or obstruct any
main, pipe, meter or other works vested in a water authority; and
(c)  Alter the index of any meter or prevent or impend any meter from duly
registering the quantity of water supplied, except with the permission of
the responsible water authority.
O  Section 101: Structures - in accordance withthis section ofthe statutes:
(1) A person shall not, without the consent of authority cause or allow:
(a)  a structure to be built, or filling to be placed on land in which the
authority has a proprietary interest;
(b)  a structure to be built, or filling to be placed within four meters of any
works of an authonty,
(c)  any soil, rock, or other matter that supports, protects or covers any works
of any authority to be removed.
(2) An application for an authority's consent under subsection (i) shall be made in the
manner prescribed by the authority and shall be accompanied by plans and other
infornation that the authority may require.
(3)  A person, who, with the consent of any authority, causes or allows anything referred
to in subsection (i) to be done shall make sure that it is done in accordance with any
conditions which the authority gave with the consent if any.
(4) If a structure has been built or filling placed on land contrary to this section, an
authority may, by notice in writing to the owner or occupier of the land, require the
occupier or owner to alter, remove or relocate the structure or filling within the time
specified in the notice, whether or not the structure was built or the filling placed by or
on behalf of the owner or occupier.
(5)  If a person to whom a notice is given under subsection (4) does not comply with the
notice within the time specified, or any longer time allowed by the authorit, the
authority may:
(a)  Carry out the requirernents of the notice; and
(b) Recover from that person its reasonable costs of carrying out paragraph
(a); or
(c)  Exercise the powers conferred on it by section 95.
(6) Consent given by an authority under subsection (3) shall be binding upon the
applicant, his heirs, successors and assignees and the owner or occupiers for the time
being of the land, whether or not that person has notice of the consent or the
conditions thereof.
(7)  A person who contravenes the provisions of this section or causes or allows any
person to contravene the provision of this section or any condition attached to any
approval of an authority comnmits an offence.



- 8 -
3.3   The National Policy for Conservation and Management of Wetland Resources (1995)
4.    The National Policy for Conservation and Management of Wetland Resources (1995), issued by
the Ministry of Water Resources, Uganda, provides guidance on environmentally sound management
and sustainable use of wetlands. The document issues specific guidelineson (a) water balance activities,
and (b) procedures to be followed by prospective wetland resource developers.
3.3.1  WaterBalanceActivities
The National Policy document provides the following guidance on water balance
activities:
a)   Users of a wetland must ensure that the overall water balance is maintained so that the
surface does not dry out. Ridging and trenching may be performed within the wetland,
allowing the growth of crops requiring drier soils, as long as the water level does not
fall below about 0.5 metres from the top of the ridge. A wetland shall under no
circumstances be drained.
b)  Bunding of fields to control the water level within the wetland must similarly ensure
that the water table does not fall below about 0.5 metres of the soil surface.
3.3.2  Procedures to befollowed by Prospective WedlandResourceDevelopers
The National Policy document provides the following guidance on procedures to be
followed by prospective wetland resources developers:
Unless the total area to be developed is less than 0.25 hectares, or as may be determined
by the authority, any developer shall provide an approved environmental impact assessment
based on the following:
a)  Identify the wetland on a map at a scale of 1:50,000 and describe the current use of the
wetland.
b)   Describe the intended use of the wetland development by:
(i)  Stating whether the use is for the benefit of an individual, a private company,
society or a community organisation.
(ii) Providing a detailed description of the proposed activity e.g. fanning, fishing,
(iii) Demonstrating that the proposed activity benefits the community, the economy
and that it is both environmentally sound and sustainable.
c)   The completed application and the EIA should be sent to the District Authorities, and
copied to the Department concemed with Environment Protection, after approval by
the LC1, LC2, LC3 committees inthe area concemed.
d)   Any costs involved will be borne by the developer.



-9 -
4.0   PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTALLY APPROPRIATE STRATEGY FOR IMPROVED
DRAINAGE
4.1   Improvements to Nakivubo Channel
1.    The following environmentally appropriate strategy is proposed for improvements to Nakivubo
Channel:
(i)  Designing the channel with a view to reducing or eliminating the incidence of flooding in
Kampala during significant storm events;
(ii)  Identification and appropriate zoning of areas within the Nakivwbo Channel catchment
which will remain at risk due to 1:100 year return period rainstorm events, e.g.
recreational use;
(iii) Reducing the adverse economic impacts due to flooding of major roads, including
intersections such as Clocktower Roundabout, in low-lying areas both in the business
district and Industrial Areas within Kampala,
(iv) Reduction in solid waste discharge down the channel to its point of discharge in the
swampy areas adjacent to Murchison Bay, Lake Victoria, through incorporation of trash
screens into the channel design;
(v)  Enhancing the appearance of the channel through appropriate use of design standards and
beautification program, including footpaths and trees;
(vi) Improving living conditions for a large percentage of the population of Kampala during
and after rainstorms.
4.2    Other Improvements (Auxiliary Works to Address Black Spots)
2.    The following environmentally appropriate strategy is proposed for other improvements within
the Nakivubo drainage catchment area, to address Black Spots:
(i)  Identification of key areas (Black Spots) within the Nakivubo Channel catchment area
where auiliary works drainage works are required in order to limit other major flooding
problems. These areas include: (a) the Clocktower Roundabout; (b) the LugogoJUMA
Showground; (c) the Kafumbe Road/Kisenyi Lane Junction; and (d) Makerere Road / Aga
Khan Secondary School.
(ii)  Implementation of the "Black Spot" emergency drainage work program with a view to
reducing the adverse economic impacts due to flooding of major roads and properties.
(iii) Selection of environmentally suitable construction materials, including locally quarried
stone for channel lining where appropriate.
(iv) Application of enviromnentally appropriate constuction methods.



- 10-
5.0    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
5.1    Nakivubo Channel Improvements
1.    The following are being considered:
(i)  Selection of channel design criteria, including appropriate return-period design storm, and
channel design life, based on engineering, environmental, social, economic, financial and
physical criteria;
(ii)  Review of project conceptual design altematives, economic analysis, and selection of least
cost alternative to meet the design, including environmental criteria;
(iii) Selections of appropriate construction materials, both for the channel sides and bottom,
and associated structures including bridges and culverts. Environmentally appropriate
construction materials which are being considered for the channel lining include: (a)
grassed earth side slopes; (b) stone masonry; (c) stone-filled, wire mesh gabions and
mattresses; and (d) reinforced concrete for side slopes and retaining walls.
(iv) Incorporation of appropriate mitigation measures into the designs, in accordance with
NEMA and IDA environmental guidelines;
(v)  Widening of existing structures including box culverts and bridges, with sufficient
capacity to handle the 1:100 year flood discharge without overtopping;
(vi) Implementation of the construction of the improvement works for the drainage channel,
over two or more years, including construction supervision, with full application of
environmental guidelines as agreed with NEMA and IDA;
(vii) Preparation of a long-term project management plan, including operations and
maintenance plan (both routine and periodic), following construction and handover of the
channel by the contractor to the client, to ensure the long-term protection both of the
works and of the environment.
5.2    Auxiliary Works
2.    The following improvements to the Nakivubo Drainage catchment area are proposed as part of
the auxiliary works:
5.2.1 Clocktower Roundabout
The aim is to eliminate the flooding which occurs after heavy rains by improving the
stormwater drainage system. Proposed improvements include:
(i)  Construction of open stone-pitched drains;
(ii)  Construction of open concrete-lined drains;
(iii) Construction of culverts across the roads in the vicinity of the Clocktower
Roundabout, in order to increase the rate of storm water flow across the roads.
Culverts will be precast concrete pipes and in situ constructed rectangular
concrete box culverts;
(iv) Clearing of existing underground drains along Entebbe Road, Queensway,
Mengo Hill Road, and Nakivubo Place Road;
(v)  Construction of larger stormwater catchpits along Entebbe Road and
Queensway, to replace the existing smaller 150mm - 200mm catchpits.



- 11 -
5.2.2  Lugogo/Uganda Manufacturers'Association 'sShowground
The aim is to eliminate the flooding which occurs after heavy rains by improving the
flow of the Lugogo Channel and the drain from Uganda Manufacturers' Association's (UMA)
Showground across Coronation Avenue. Proposed improvements include:
(i)  Widening and concrete lining about 100m of Lugogo Channel and the drain
from UMA Showground;
(ii)  Construction of stone-lined and unlined catchwater drain along Coronation
Avenue;
(iii) Construction of access culverts (prefabricated concrete pipes) across the
catchwater drain;
(iv) Construction of larger stormwater catchpits along Coronation Avenue between
the Lugogo Channel and UMA Showground;
(v)  Construction of new larger culverts to replace existing ones across Coronation
Avenue for Lugogo Channel and a drain from UMA Showground;
(vi) Cleaning Lugogo Channel downstream of new culverts upto Nakivubo channel.
5.2.3 Kafumbe Road /Kisenyi Lane Junction
The aim is to eliminate the flooding of the area from the tributary nearby. The flooding
is due to a lot of silt and debris which travels along the tributary and blocks the pipe culvert
across the junction. Also, due to the flat terrain in the area, the slope of the existing culvert is
very small and this contributes to the deposition of silt and consequent blockage of the drain and
culverts. Proposed improvements include:
(i)  Demolishing and removal of part of the existing precast concrete pipe culverts;
(ii)  Replacement with rectangular concrete culvert, blockage of the pipe culverts
which have been left in place, and diversion of the drainage channel water to the
adjacent existing open drain;
(iii) Construction of a new drain from the outlet of the proposed rectangular culvert
to the existing drain between Owino Market and Nakivubo Stadium;
(iv) Reconstruction of the existing drain between Owino Market and Nakivubo
Stadium, including widening of part of the channel and lining with stone
masonry;
(v)  Reconstruction of adjacent Kisenyi Lane over the proposed rectangular culvert.
5.2.4 MakerereRoad/Aga K/han Secondary School
The aim is to eliminate flooding of the area from the tributary nearby. The flooding is
due to the inadequacy of the culvert in the tributary, which comprises two concrete pipes. A
larger culvert would replace these pipes, and the channel lined over a short distance
downstream of the culvert. Proposed improvements include:
(i)  Demolishing the existing culverts and replacing it with twin box culverts;
(ii)  Trimming and shaping the channel over a distance of 50 m upstream and
downstream of the culvert, and lining with stone masonry, cleaning the tributary
up to Nakivubo Channel;



- 12 -
(iii) Construction of a silt trap 50 m upstream of the culvert; and
(iv) Reconstruction of a section of the road over the proposed culvert.



- 13 -
6.0    DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AT THE PROPOSED PROJECT SITES
6.1   Project Location
1.    The Nakivubo Channel originates within the city of Kampala, capital of Uganda. The
Nakivubo Channel is a natural drainage channel some 9 km in length which discharges into Murchison
Bay, Lake Victoria. The total catchment area for the Nakivubo Channel is approximately 27 kIn'.
2.    The Nakivubo Channel is the main stormwater drainage channel for the city of
Kampala. More than ninety-five percent (95%) of the developed central urban area of the city
drains into this channel.
3.    The main channel starts from a spring located between Bat Valley, Wandegeya and Makerere
Kivulu to the northwest of the city, runs southwards for some 3 km to Clocktower Roundabout in the
Central Business District, then tums eastwards, through the Industrial Area of Kampala before
discharging into Nakivubo swamp located between Luzira, Port Bell and Ggaba adjacent to Murchison
Bay, Lake Victoria.
4.    The channel was the object of some realignment, widening and lining with concrete and stone
dressed masonry in 1939. The only works which have been carried out for the channel since that date
include minor repairs to the channel lining, and occasional desilting of the channel.
6.2    Description of Features
6.2.1 Land Use
The first 900 m of the channel from its spring source near Makerere Hill Road to the
vicinity of Kisekka Road culvert runs through predominantly undeveloped land, much of which
is under cultivation.
From Kisekka Road culvert to Entebbe Road Bridge, over a distance of approximately
1700 m, the channel runs through predominantly developed areas of Kampala, and is adjacent to
important landmarks including Nakivubo Stadium, the Owino Market, Nakivubo Primary
School, the Central Business District and the Clocktower Roundabout on Entebbe Road.
From Entebbe Road Bridge to Fiffh Street Bridge, over a distance of approximately
4300 m, the channel runs alongside predominantly open or partially developed areas including
the Uganda Railway Corporation railway yards and main lines, and the Industrial Area of
Kampala.
From Fifth Street Bridge up to the point of discharge of the channel in the Nakivubo
swamps adjacent to Murchison Bay, over a distance of approximately 2000 m, the channel runs
through predominantly undeveloped flood plains, much of which are under cultivation.



- 14 -
6.2.2  Natural Physical Resources (Air, Water, Soil)
62.2.1    Air Quality
There are relatively few industries which affect air quality in the project area.
Some of the main air polluting activities include fuel gas from Mukwano soap industry
and the obnoxious smell from the city abattoir.
6.2.2.2    Water Quality
There are several point sources and other sources of pollution of the Nakivubo
Channel. These include damaged sewage pipes running along the channel and the Meat
Packers/Municipal abattoir.
Solid waste: There is physical evidence that significant quantities of solid waste
are dumped illegally, either directly into the Nakivubo Channel, or in some of its several
tributaries. Solid wastes include domestic wastes comprising organic and inorganic
wastes such as plastic containers, vegetable waste, food waste, papers, glass, and waste
cans/metals. There is also evidence of illegal dumping of non-domestic wastes including
commercial and industrial wastes, including glass, metal, plastics, gasing wastes,
batteries, waste concrete, organic wastes, medical and hazardous wastes.
6.2.2.3    Soils
The soils in the project area are primarily clay of sandy-silty matrix.
6.2.3  Natural Biological Resources
6.2.3.1    Flora
Flora within the project area includes Eucalyptus spp plantation at the
beginning of the channel. Further down along the channel, some areas are overgrown
with wetland vegetation, including papyrus. The channel banks have herbaceous
communities. Information gathered while canrying out the Environmental Impact
Assessment indicates that in general, the flora in the project area present minimal
conservation conflicts because they are neither endangered species nor limited
geographically to this region. They do not appear in any know-list of endangered
species.
6.2.3.2    Fauna
Fauna of the project area consists primarily of small mammals such as rats and
other rodents, birds, bats, reptiles and insects. In the papyms zone there are small
mammals such as Lophuromysflavopunctus and L Sikapusi (common brush-furred
rats), Dasymus incomfus (shaggy rat), Lemnicomys natalensis (common striped grass
rat) and Mus minutoides (pigmy mouse). Information gathered while carrying out the
Environmental Impact Assessment indicates that in general, the fauna in the project area
present minimal conservation conflicts because they are neither endangered species nor



- 15 -
limited geographically to this region. They do not appear in any know-list of
endangered species.
6.2.4  Economic Development
62.4.1   Industrial Area
The Industrial Area, which covers approximately 59 hectares or 29% of the total
Nakivubo Channel catchment area, is the largest industrial estate in Uganda. It is built
on reclaimed land, which forms part of the swampy floodplain of the Nakivubo
Channel. The Industrial Area lies on either side of the channel and its main tributaries,
the Kitante and Lugogo channels.
There are over 200 industrial and commercial companies, including
international joint ventures, located in the Industrial Area. The lower part of the
Industrial Area, which includes the whole length of Sixth and Seventh Streets, and parts
of Fifth Street and Kabira Road, are seriously affected by frequent flooding due to
discharge capacity constraints in the Nakivubo Channel.
62.4.2    Markets, Car Parks and Bus Stations
The markets, car parks and bus stations cover an area of approximately 11
hectares or 5% of the channel's catchment. They are located along the busy commercial
area of Nakivubo Road. Kisekka Market, the New Taxi Park, the Sauri Yako Market,
the Bus Park and Owino Market all lie either along Allen Road or Nakivubo Place, both
of which are prone to flooding, and are located adjacent to the channel along its upper
reach.
Owino Market is the most important market area, covering almost 4 hectares.
The market comprises a central haU with some 470 lock-up shops and 4,700 stalls,
sheds, tables and infoimal selling places on open ground. The market is the most
popular food and commodity market in Kampala. Daily attendance is estimated to be
upward of 90,000 customers per day, seven days a week.
6.2.4.3    Railway Station and Yards
The railway station is the terminus of the line, which originates in Mombasa,
Kenya. The railway yards cover an area of approximately 15 hectares, or 7% of the
channel's catchment area. The railway yards receive and transport crops including
coffee, tea, cotton and sesame for export. The railway is also used for the transport of
animal products. The lower part of the railway yards is subject to frequent flooding,
which adversely affects handling and trade in commodities. This causes strong protests
from customers, many of whom elect to use alternative means of trasport, to the
detiment of the railway.



- 16 -
6.2.5 Socio-economic Status
6.2.5.1    Residential and Commercial Areas
This Nakivubo Channel catchment area includes: (a) residential and mixed use
buildings (approximately 6 hectares, or 3% of the catchment area), (b) public and
community buildings (approximately 10 hectares or 5% of the catchment area), and (c)
streets and Roundabouts (approximately 8 hectares or 4% of the catchment area).
Residential and mixed use buildings are mainly concentrated in the central part
of the flooded areas, along Nsambya and Kibuli Roads. They mostly comprise
institutional housing estates for families of police officers and railway employees.
Public and community buildings are to be found throughout the upper reaches
of catchment area within Kampala City, with a high concentration in the vicinity of
Clocktower Roundabout, a flood-prone area. They include schools, sports fields and
recreational areas.
Streets and Roundabouts are to be found throughout the catchment area within
Kampala City. Those streets and Roundabouts, which are subject to periodic flooding,
include Clocktower Roundabout, which is one of the busiest intersections in Kampala
and is probably the worst affected by flooding. Other affected areas include the entire
length of Sixth and Seventh Streets, parts of Allen Street, Nakivubo Place, Nakivubo
area by-pass, Kibuli Road and Press House Road, and the lower section of Fifth Street
and Kibira Road.
6.2.5.2    Meadows and Waterlogged Surfaces
Meadows and waterlogged surfaces are to be found almost exclusively in the
middle and lower reaches of the Nakivubo Channel, downstream of Fifth Street Bridge,
where the channel enters a swampy area where patches of reclaimed land are cultivated
by local farmers, mainly for yam and cassava. Beyond the final railway crossing over
the Nakivubo Channel, the channel flow discharges into the Nakivubo swamp.
6.2.6 Quality of Life Issues
There are many streets, shops and markets, as well as bus stations located along the
upper reaches of the Nakivubo Channel within Kampala, particularly between Kisekka Road
culvert and Entebbe Road Bridge next to Clocktower Roundabout. In these areas, there is a high
concentration of pedestrians and/or cars or other means of transport during most of the day.
There are frequent flooding events along this section of the channel during the rainy
season. These flooding events seriously affect the roads in the area, and disrupt both
commercial and social activities of the population in the area. It is not unusual for the depth of
water to reach 0.5 metres in some locations, notably at the Clocktower Roundabout, seriously
disrupting traffic flow in the area.



- 17-
6.2.7 Environmentally SensitiveAreas of Special or Unique Scienfifc, Socio-economic or
Cultural Value
None of the areas, which are affected by the proposed project, contain areas of special or
unique scientific, socio-economic or cultural value, which would be likely to be adversely
affected by the proposed NCRP.
Several of the areas along the length of the Nakivubo Channel have socio-economic
activities which would be enhanced by the proposed NCRP, due to the elimination or significant
reduction in the number of flooding incidents expected after the proposed rehabilitation works.



- 18 -
7.0   SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
7.1    Beneficial Environmental Impacts
7.1.1  Nakivubo ChannelDrainageImprovements
The primary objective of the NCRP is to improve the flow discharge capacity of the
Nakivubo Channel, and thereby reduce or eliminate the number of flooding incidents and
consequent adverse impacts on the population in the affected areas. Construction of the
Nakivubo Channel improvement works will result in the following beneficial impacts:
* Reduction in number of flooding events in the affected areas;
*  Reduction in flood levels in the Nakivubo Channel flood plain;
* Enhanced aesthetics of the Nakivubo Channel (planting of trees, channel alignment,
channel lining, pedestrian footbridges, vehicular culverts and bridges);
* Improved access (provision of footpaths);
* Reduced pollution levels (repair of leaking sewers, provision of trash screens across the
channel at several locations);
• Improved traffic circulation (widening of key bridges and culverts, reduction in flooding
incidents);
* Reduced economic impacts of flooding on commercial activities;
*  Improved access for pedestrians during rainstorm events (reduced ponding); and
* Increased property values in the vicinity of Nakivubo Channel.
7.1.2  Auxiliary Works Improvements
The primary objective of the auxiliary works is to improve drainage in the Nakivubo
Channel catchment.
* Reduction of flooding in the Nakivubo Channel catchment;
* Improved access (access culverts) pedestrian lane;
• Enhanced aesthetics of the catchment of the channel (concrete lined drains, pedestrian
bridges);
* Improved traffic circulation (reduction of flooding of roads); and
* Improved pedestrian movement during rainstorm (reduced ponding on roads).
7.2    Adverse Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
7.2.1 Construction Activities
During construction for the NCRP, large numbers of construction personnel, and heavy
machinery (excavators, trucks, etc.) are likely to be used. Construction will likely cause damage
to some of the flora and fauna in the area, soil erosion, and adverse aesthetic impacts. In
addition, there will be transport of substantial volumes of materials (stone, aggregate, cement,
reinforcement steel, and soil) to and from the site. Much of this construction activity will take
place within the urbanised areas of Kampala, causing noise, dust, traffic disruption, and adverse
aesthetic impacts.



- 19 -
These adverse impacts will be temporary in nature and largely limited to the two-year
construction period. Mitigation measures will be taken to reduce the adverse impacts to a
minimum, through the incorporation of specific environmental clauses into the construction
contract, and enforcement of these clauses upon the contractor. Specific details of these
mitigation measures are further described below.
7.2.2 Vegetation Removal
Destruction of vegetation will occur during excavation works for the channel widening.
Vegetation removal will cause loss of fauna habitat, and adverse aesthetic impacts.
The construction contract documents will incorporate provisions for limiting soil
erosion, and sediment control measures. These will include requirements for the contractor to
limit the working areas to be cleared ahead of construction, and for treatment of the completed
channel to be effected as soon as practicable, including revegetation of bank slopes where these
are to be unlined.
7.2.3 Soil Erosion and Soil Compaction
There will likely be a degree of soil erosion during construction, particularly during the
rainy season, and especially in areas where the soil is relatively loose. This can result in
transport and deposition of fine materials (sands, silts and clays) downstream.
The construction contract will require earth faces left exposed by construction activities
to be treated as soon as practicable, including revegetation where required, to minimise the
amount of soil erosion.
The contractor will be limited in the activities which he will be authorised to carry out
during the rainy seasons, particularly below flood water levels. He will be required to treat
excavated areas below flood water levels appropriately as required under the design contrct,
e.g. through use of stone gabions and mattresses, before the start of each rainy season.



-20 -
7.2.4 Traffic Disruption
There is likely to be substantial traffic disruption resulting from construction activities.
This disruption may include lane closures or temporary closure of some vehicular culverts and
bridges, demolishing of existing footbridges, and increased truck and other construction traffic.
The contractor will be required to submit a detailed traffic management plan before
commencement of the work, for approval by KCC's traffic management division. This traffic
management plan will include details of lane closures and/or bridges to be closed, proposed
diversions, and duration of disruptions. In addition, the traffic management plan will include
limitations on vehicular movements, e.g. to off-peak hours.
Existing pedestrian footbridges will be left in place until alternative means of access
across the channel have been put in place, including construction of new footbridges where
appropriate.
7.2.5 Flow Diversion during Construction
There may be substantial temporary works associated with the diversion of channel flow
during construction activities. In addition, constuction activities may constrict the flow
carrying capacity of the channel.
The contractor will be required to submit his detailed proposals for channel flow
diversion during construction, for approval by the supervising engineer and KCC. The
contractor will be required to indicate how he proposes to construct the diversionary works, and
be held responsible for reinstatement of the site to its pre-existing condition upon completion of
the diversionary works.
In order to minimise the potential for flooding during channel construction, the contract
documents will include restrictions on the contractor's activities during the rainy season,
including work within the channel below flood water level, in order to minimise the risk of
obstructing flows during the rainy season, and with a view to minimising the extent of
diversionary works required.



- 21 -
8.0    ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
8.1   Introduction
1.    There are very limited options available for the reduction or elimination of the flooding
problems in Kampala. The Nakivubo Channel is the main natural channel for carrying stonn water
flows away from Kampala's downtown area. Options which have been considered and not considered
realistic include:
* Diversion of storm water flows to another catchment basin; and
*  Discharging flows to combined sewers for discharge to the sewage treatment plant.
2.    Options, which have been considered, are described below.
8.2    Nakivubo Channel Drainage Improvements
8.2.1  The No Action Option
There are strong political and economic pressures to resolve the current serious flooding
problems in Kampala, which are largely due to the inadequate canying capacity of Nakivubo
Channel. Hence, the No Action alternative has not been considered as a viable option.
In addition, the economic analysis shows that there is a net positive economic return due
to the NCRP.
8.2.2  DesigningforMaximumProbableFlood
There does not appear to be a justification for designing forthe Maximum Probable
Flood (MPF), given Kampala's location at the top end of the Nakivubo Channel catchment,
negligible consequent risk of loss of life, and right-of-way restrictions along the length of the
channel which would likely involve population resettlement issues, and costly property
acquisition.
The channel design has looked at the maximum return period flood for which the
Nakivubo Channel could realistically be designed. Culverts, bridges and other structures have
been designed to carry the 1 in 100 year storm flood. The channel itself has been designed to
carry the l in 10 year flood.
8.2.3 Covered Concrete Channel
There does not appear to be an economic justification at this time for providing a
covered concrete channel over even part of the length of the watercourse, with the exception of
road crossings, given the relatively low value of real estate in Kampala.



- 22 -
9.0    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
1.    The purpose of environment management organisation is to define the responsibilities and
procedures for implementing sound environmental practices for the project.
9.1    Management Organisation
2.    NEMA is the principal agency in Uganda for the management of the environment and it co-
ordinates, monitors and supervises all activities in the field of the environment in accordance to the
National Environmental Statute 1995. In doing so, NEMA liaises with the private sector, other
governmental organisations, non-governmental agencies, government agencies of other states on issues
pertaining to the environment.
3.    The management of the Nakivubo Channel will be the responsibility of KCC. KCC will draw
out a management plan for the project for implementing sound envirommental practices during
construction and operation of the channel.
9.2   Personnel
4.    KCC will provide the required personnel for the monitoring and maintenance of the Nakivubo
Channel and drains in the catchment. In addition, solid waste management requirements will be
addressed as these have a direct impact on the channel and drains in the catchment.
9.3    Resources
5 .    For a successful environmental management in the Nakivubo catchment Tesources in form of
materials and money are required. It will be the responsibility of KCC to provide resources for
environmental monitoring, channel and drains maintenance and solid waste management in the
Nakivubo Channel catchment.
9.4    Training
6.    Implementation of social environmental practices require skilled personnel. It will be the
responsibility of KCC to ensure that the right personnel are available for the task of environmental
monitoring, assessment and maintenance of the channel and drains in the catchment.
7.    Training of personnel will therefore be necessary in order to have an efficient workforce for
environmental management. In order to obtain appropriate training for different levels, KCC will liaises
with NEMA for advice.



- 23 -
10.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PLAN
I.    Monitoring is used to see what impacts occur to ensure that the anticipated impacts are
maintained within the levels predicted. It ensures that the conditions of approval are adhered to and that
the mitigation measures are effectively applied and the benefits expected from the EIA are achieved.
This will provide information necessary for periodic reviews and alteration of environmental
management plans if deemed necessary hence optimising environmental protection through good
practice. At all stages of the project KCC will follow the monitoring plan suggested by the EIA.
10.1  Surface Water Monitoring (location, parameters, frequency)
2.    The key area of the environmental monitoring required during the operation of the rehabilitated
channel is the monitoring of surface water. In order to identify any changes in water quality during the
operation of the channel, base line data is required for selected locations along the channel.
3 .    NEMA, as the lead agency in Uganda responsible for environmental monitoring, should provide
the personnel and resources for the environmental monitoring of Nakivubo Channel and drains in the
catchment.
4.    Suggested locations for monitoring of water quality along the Nakivubo Channel will be at
effluent discharge points at Mukwano Soap Industry and the Municipal abattoir; the beginning of the
Channel at Wandegeya; Nakivubo Place after Owino market and at the end of the chanmel near the
swamps.
5.    The water quality parameters to be determined and checked against the proposed NEMA
standards for discharge of effluent or wastewater (22/6/1998) are:
Ammonia Nitrogen        Cadmium                Cyanide
Nitrate nitrogen         Chromium (VI)         pH
Chromium (Total)        Mercury                Phenols
Arsenic                  Coliform organisms    Phosphate (Soluble)
BOD5                    Phosphate              Lead
COD                     Detergents
Oil and grease          Temperature
Nitrogen -total
Conductivity
Total suspended acids
10.2   Rainfall Data Monitoring
6.    For the purpose of environment management related to Nakivubo Channel, the Meteorological
Department, should maintain an up-to-date record of rainfall for Kampala area. This is an invaluable
tool for predictions and hence preparations for the management of impacts that may be caused by
rainstorms.



- 24 -
10.3   Flood Damage Assessment
7.    In order to avoid excessive flood damage to the Nakivubo Channel, and drains KCC will carry
out visual checks after every major rainstorm to identify damage. Appropriate measures to rectify any
damage will be implemented as soon as practicable following damage assessment.



-25 -
11.0 IMPACT MONITORING
1.    Monitoring of the impacts of the rehabilitation of Nakivubo Channel will take place during the
construction and operation. Adherence to the proposed mitigation measures during the construction by
the contractor will be monitored by way of supervision and will be documented in the periodic reports
compiled. Monitoring to ensure adherence to the proposed mitigation measures during the operation of
the channel will be the responsibility of KCC. KCC will provide resources and supervision required for
the sustainable operation of the Nakivubo Channel.
2.    The Nakivubo Channel and catchment will be monitored for:
*  Pollution against set standard for effluent as specified to be coordinated by NEMA. Siltation,
debris accumulation, conditions of the drainage systems for the road networks in the channel
basin.
*  General condition/state of the channel and drains and other activities that may interfere with the
proper functioning of the channel (e.g. solid waste management in the basin), and projects that
may interfere with the integrity of the channel.
3.    Monitoring of the condition of Nakivubo Channel and drains, their functioning state and
activities in the basin that may affect their function will be undertaken regularly as specified, particularly
after every heavy rainfall to ensure efficient functioning ofthe drainage system in Kampala. Monitoring
will evaluate the effectiveness/relevance of the proposed mitigation measures. A biannual monitoring
report will be produced by KCC to update the relevant authorities on the status of the channel and the
Kampala drainage system in general.



-26 -
12.0 INTER-AGENCY AND PUBLIC/NGO/PRIVATE SECTOR INVOLVEMENT
12.1  Interaction with the National Environmental Management Agency
1.    NEMA is the regulatory and enforcing body with respect to industrial discharges. An
Environmental Impact Assessment was submitted to NEMA in July 1998, in compliance with section 29
of the National Environmental Statute (1995). In accordance with this section of the statute, all
proposed projects are to undergo NEMA approval to ensure that they meet the NEMA standards before
they are allowed to operate. The Environmental Impact Assessment is to be prepared if the lead agency
in consultation with NEMA is of the view that the project:
* "may have an impact on the environment
* is likely to have a significant impact on the environment; or;
* will have a significant impact on the environment."
12.2   Other Beneficiaries and Affected Groups
2.    Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups have been involved in, and have influenced, the
project formulation in the following manners:
(1) The project is demand-driven, community participatory, and performance based. Intensive
consultations were undertaken with vendors at Kiseka and Owino markets, Nakivubo
Settlement Primary School, Aga Khan Primary and Secondary Schools, property owners
and operators, industrialists including Mukwano and subsistence cultivators at the down
stream end of the channel. All these are located within the vicinity of the channel.
(2) Others are utility companies whose services cross the channel at various places. The
National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC) was consulted about designs of
alterations to its service lines. The Uganda Telecommunications company and the
Uganda Electricity Board prepared design sand cost estimates of alterations to their
services, which have been incorporated in the works.
12.3   Other Key Stakeholders
3.    Kampala City Council Executive Committee and the National Parliament through the Sectoral
Committee on Local Government have been informed about the rehabilitation work on the channel.
There have also been several press conferences where KCC executives have informed the general public
about the impending rehabilitation works on the channel. All these have echoed the need for
rehabilitating the channel.
4.    Project management is complex and demanding. It requires specialist skills, experience,
information, and the participation of interest groups and considerable amount of commitment. No
manager, organisation or institution can work in isolation. Environmental management should therefore
involve all interested parties in order to be successful.
5.    KCC will, in order to achieve sound management of the drainage system in Kampala, create
inter-agency links and involve the private sector (e.g. industries), identified NGOs and the public (LCs).
Exchange of information between the interested groups will enable KCC to prepare an effective
environmental Management plan for the project, and execute it successfully.



- 27 -
LIST OF REFERENCES
1.  Guaff/Parkman, 1998. KampalaWater Supply Extension Project. Final Design Report. 1
2. Water Studies. Report prepared for the Ministry of Water and Mineral Development and national
Water and Sewerage Corporation; Kampala. Uganda
3. FINNIDA. 1989. Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment in Development Assistance.
Draft 15 July .Helsinki
4. Environmental Resources Limited. 1990. Solid Waste Disposal - Kampala, Final Report
5. ECOTECH Consulting Environmental Management Finm, 1997. Environmental Impact Statement
for the proposed water channel at Kajjansi Airfield
6. Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment in Uganda. National Environmental
Management Authority. 1997
7. National Policy for the Conservation and Management of Wetlands Resource. 1995. Ministry of
Natural Resources, Government of Uganda.
8. The Water Statute (Commencement) Instrument, 1997, Government of Uganda
9.  Techniplan S.PA. Rome. 1997. Feasibility Studyforthe Rehabilitation of Nakivubo Channel
Phase I, Final Report
10. The National Environmental Statute, 1995
11. Kagga & Partners Limited. Rehabilitation of Nakivubo Channel, Final Engineering Report
12. Kansiime, F, Kateyo. E and Okot-Okumu. J. 1995. Effects of Pollution of Inner Murchison Bay
(Lake Victoria) on the distribution of abundance of plankton. Makerere University Institute of
Environment and Natural Resources
13. Okot-Okumu, J. Kateyo and Kansime. F, 1997,. Effects of Nutrient distribution on plankton
ecology of Murchison Bay, Lake Victoria, Makerere University Institute of Environment and Natural
Resources
Consultations
Kagga & Partners Limited
Kampala City Council
Makerere University (Museum)
Owino Market area
Lead Agencies
Uganda Railway Corporation (Yard employees)



