Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3203-UG
Project Agreement
(Nakivubo Channel Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
Dated June 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3203 -UG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL (KCC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
sixteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,500,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that KCC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
KCC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to KCC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS KCC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) KCC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and  engineering practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and KCC shall otherwise agree, KCC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KCC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, KCC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
KCC, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with KCC on 
the said plan.
Section 2.04. KCC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KCC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KCC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
KCC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by KCC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of KCC
Section 3.01. KCC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. KCC shall at all times operate and maintain its  assets and 
investments, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, and financial practices. 
Section 3.03. KCC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. KCC shall: (i) establish and thereafter maintain, until completion 
of the Project, a separate Project Account with a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, into which KCC shall deposit its contributions to the Project, and (ii) 
during each quarter, commencing from the quarter starting July 1, 1999, deposit into 
the Project Account the amount required to cover its contribution during each such 
quarter. 
Section 3.05. KCC shall maintain with staffing and functions satisfactory to the 
Association, its Core Team responsible for the implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KCC shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
KCC shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year, including those for the 
Project Account, audited in accordance with 
auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and report of such 
audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, KCC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial system for the Project in order to enable KCC, 
not later than September 30, 1999, or such later date as the Association shall agree, 
to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association. Each 
such report shall: 
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources 
and application of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and 
show separately expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report; 
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  4
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, KCC shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
Section 4.03. (a) KCC shall furnish, by December 31, 1999, to the Association a 
duly authorized property valuation list from the Borrower’s Chief Government Valuer 
for all its housing estates and other houses owned by KCC.
(b)
KCC shall take all measures necessary to complete the sale of: (i) all 
its staff houses by June 30, 2000; and (ii) all its housing estates and other houses 
by June 30, 2001. 
(c)
KCC shall, starting from July 1, 1999, furnish to the Association 
quarterly returns on the proceeds from the sale of its housing stock deposited by KCC 
into the Project Account.
Section 4.04. KCC shall: (i) no later than July 1, 1999 establish in a 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Association an Operations and Maintenance Escrow 
Account ; and (ii) deposit into the said Account USh 15 million on a quarterly basis 
starting from the quarter ending September 30, 1999 through June 30, 2002.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
KCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: (i)
the 
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms; or (ii)
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify KCC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association
International Development Association
Page  5
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For KCC:
Kampala City Council
P.O. Box 7232
Kampala, Uganda
Fax:
25641 231 916
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KCC may be 
taken or executed by the Town Clerk or such other person or persons as the Town Clerk 
shall designate in writing, and KCC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
KAMPALA CITY COUNCIL
By /s/ Edith Ssempala 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
Page  6
January 1999 subject to: (a) the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Prequalification Bidders for civil works under Part A of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent; and  
(b)
goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a)
 the award of the first three contracts for works or 
goods to be made under the Project by KCC, and (b) each contract for works and goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in 
Page  7
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided under Part D of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for training under Part D of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  8
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the first three 
contracts to be awarded by KCC under the Project for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 each, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KCC shall, in carrying out the 
Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the Project Implementation 
Plan and shall not amend such Project Implementation Plan or waive any provision 
thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project. 
2.
KCC shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
