Document of
The World Bank
Report No T7565-GZ
WEST BANK AND GAZA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
OF US$25.0 MILLION
FOR A
SECOND EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
November 22, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 2002
Currency Unit = ILS (New Israeli Sheqalim)
ILS 1 = US$.211 US$
US$ 1 = 4.73 ILS
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DC            Direct Contracting
DfID          Department for International Development (UK)
EC            European Council
ESSP I        Emergency Services Support Project
ESSP II       Second Emergency Services Support Project
FM            Financial Management
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Agency
IS           International Shopping
LCS           Least Cost Selection
MOEHE         Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
MOPIC         Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOSA          Ministry of Social Affairs
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGOs          Non-Governmental Organizations
NS            National Shopping
PA            Palestinian Authority
PCBS          Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
SA            Special Account
SDC           Service Delivery Contractors
SHC           Special Hardship Cases
SOE           Statement of Expenses
SS            Single Source
TFG           Trust Fund Grant
TFGWB         Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDB          United Nations Developmental Business
UNRWA         United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine in Refugees in the Near East
WBG           West Bank and Gaza
Vice President                            Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                          Nigel Roberts
Sector Director                           Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader                          David Steel, Sima Kanaan



WEST BANK AND GAZA
SECOND EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Currency Equivalent, Abbreviations and Acronyms
Grant and Project Summary
Background.1
- Education Services.3
- Health Services .4
Bank Response and Strategy ..................................................  7
Detailed Program Description ................................................  9
Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation ........ ..........  13
Financial Management ...................................................  13
Procurement.15
Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................  19
Financial and Economic Justification ................... ....................  21
Time Table of Key Processing Events ................. ....................  22
MAP: IBRD 27791






WEST BANK AND GAZA
SECOND EMERGENCY SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Grant Recipient:           The Palestine Liberation Organization
Beneficiary:               Palestinian Authority
Implementing Agencies:     Ministries of Finance, Health, Education and Higher Education,
and Social Affairs.
Loan/Credit/Grant:         Grant
Amount & Terms:            US$25 million on grant terms
Objectives & Description:  The objectives of the proposed Second Emergency Services
Support Project are to mitigate the deterioration in education,
health and social welfare services resulting from the economic
crisis and its consequent fiscal impact by financing goods and
services necessary to deliver these services.  This will be
achieved by: (i) financing the non salary recurrent expenditures
of the core social service-delivery ministries of health,
education and higher education, and social affairs, as well as
other ministries whose operating non-salary budgets the
Ministry of Finance is unable to finance; and (ii) financing the
operating costs of the project implementation unit within the
Ministry of Finance, and any other essential technical
assistance needs identified by the participating ministries.
Project Appraisal          This Project has been prepared in accordance with Emergency
Document:                  Recovery Assistance procedures (Operational Policy 8.50). As
such, there is no Project Appraisal Document for this Project.
A Technical Annex is submitted with this document, as
specified in Operational Policy 8.50, Annex A.
Disbursement:              The Grant is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
2004.
Financing Plan:                             US$ million
TFGWB:              25.0
Donors:             59.0
Total:              84.0
Project ID Number:         P078136






West Bank and Gaza
Second Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP II)
Technical Annex
I.    Background
1.    With the launching of the Israeli-Palestinian Peace Process in September 1993, the
hope of resolving one of the past centuries' most intractable conflicts was set in motion. An
ambitious reconstruction effort was initiated with broad donor economic support to underpin
the political process and jump-start the Palestinian economy. Because of its still unresolved
political status, however, the Palestinian govemance framework remains undetermined,
allowing for very limited Palestinian control of land, and lack of control over water, transport
of goods and people or access to extemal markets. Since the Oslo agreements, the Palestinian
Authority (PA) has begun to acquire jurisdiction in varying degrees, in the small areas under
its control, for delivery of public services, law enforcement and legislative power. It has not,
on the other hand, the full attributes of a state and is limited in its ability to authoritatively
allocate or mobilize resources.
2.    Reemergence of Conflict Sets Back Development & Economic Growth. The
outbreak of the Palestinian Intifada in September 2000 and subsequent imposition of closures
and curfews by the Govemment of Israel on the West Bank and Gaza have caused many of
the development gains achieved over recent years to suffer severe setbacks. The nature of the
conflict has been one of low-level but protracted violence that has continued over a span of
more than two years. The Palestinian economic recovery that began in 1998 came to an
abrupt halt with the outbreak of violence, as political instability and security concems have
driven investors away, while closures and curfews have imposed significant transaction costs
on Palestinian businesses that have eroded their competitiveness.  Correspondingly,
Palestinian incomes have witnessed a sharp decline. Per capita real income in WBG declined
by 12 percent in 2000 and by a further 19 percent in 2001. Unemployment is now estimated
by the Bank to be just under 50 percent, and this does not include that portion of the labor
force that has ceased looking for work due to depressed economic activity.
3.    Fiscal Crisis. PA fiscal accounts have deteriorated markedly since September 2000,
causing a severe fiscal crisis. There are essentially three main causes of the present fiscal
deficit. First, there has been a sharp decline in PA revenue collections associated with the
decline in economic activity and the disruption of tax administration; second, transfers of tax
revenue collected on the PA's behalf by the Govemment of Israel were suspended during the
period December 2000-June 2002, and resumed in July 2002 only on an irregular basis'; and
third, expenditures associated with the emergency have increased over the past two years.
Central govemment revenue fell from a monthly average of US$83 million in 1999 to US$23
million by the First Quarter of 2002 and further declined to US$15.7 million in the Second
Quarter. Domestic tax revenue collection has shrunk to half the pre-Intifada monthly average
and, with the exception of transfers made since June 2002, clearance revenue, which had
'Three transfers in the amount of NIS 70 million each have been made in July, August and October for a total of
NIS 210 million since June. However, no formal agreement has been reached to resume transfers on a regular
basis and to reinstate the pre-existing transfer system.



2
averaged US$45 million per month prior to the crisis, has been withheld. Despite the severe
cutback in non-wage expenditures (Second Quarter 2002 non-wage spending was 63 percent
the level of the First Quarter, and 46 percent when compared with monthly non-wage
spending in 2001), the PA was running an average monthly deficit of approximately US$20
million, even after taking into account donor-provided budgetary support. This has been
managed through a combination of accumulating arrears to suppliers, borrowing from
domestic banks, and delaying the payment of salaries, pensions and welfare assistance. Since
July 2002, the Ministry of Finance has further reduced the PA austerity budget of US$90
million to US$70 million per month to reduce the further accumulation of arrears.
4.    By the end of June 2002, the PA had accumulated US$527 million in arrears, of which
US$295 million is due to suppliers and US$232 million in wages (including pensions). This
level of arrears has had a pernicious impact on the private sector, resulting in an acute
liquidity shortage, mounting non-performing loans in the banking system, and increasing
2
cases of insolvency . Vendors have felt compelled to continue providing credit, but many
have reached the point where they are no longer willing or able to do so. Settling these
arrears is a matter of top priority for the PA once Israel agrees to transfer the withheld
clearance revenue (estimated by the IMF to be US$681 million in gross terms owed as of end-
June 2002) and resumes regular transfers.
5.    Impact of the Crisis. Following nearly 18 months of protracted exchanges of
violence, the conflict intensified in the West Bank at the end of March 2002, causing severe
damages to physical and institutional infrastructure, including housing, public facilities, as
well as water, wastewater and electrical networks, particularly in the northern region of the
West Bank. This was coupled with a tightening of movement restrictions on the Palestinian
population.  A Damage Assessment was conducted with broad-based donor support
immediately following the intensified violence in March-April and developed an estimate of
damages to infrastructure and institutions of over US$330 million; this is in addition to an
estimate of damages of US$300 million, prepared by the Bank, that were incurred prior to
March, between September 2000 and December 2001. In addition, tightened closures have
increased travel time, which are now more than double the average prior to the Intifada when
closures and mobility restrictions were first imposed. Correspondingly, travel costs have also
dramatically increased during this period, as transport routes have been segmented within and
between areas.
6.    Vulnerability of the Palestinian People. The closures and movement restrictions
have had a profound impact on the lives and livelihoods of the Palestinian people. Monthly
household income decreased by 50 percent in the first 18 months of the Intifada, placing 66
percent of Palestinian households below the poverty line of US$2 per day. According to the
Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS), as many as 84 percent of Gaza households
are now estimated to be below the poverty line. Nearly 55 percent of households lost more
than 50 percent of their income during the first half of this year, compared to 47 percent by
March 2001, signaling the deepening nature of the crisis. More than 55 percent of the
population has decreased the quantity of food consumed since the beginning of the Intifada.
This has invariably had its impact on the health status of vulnerable segments of the
2 See Fifteen Months -- Intifada, Closures and Economic Crisis: An Assessment, The World Bank, March 2002.



3
Palestinian population. A nutritional assessment carried out under the auspices of Johns
Hopkins University in July 2002 estimates the current rate of malnutrition among children
under the age of 5 to be about 20 percent, which is deemed an emergency in most parts of the
world. The study also found high levels of anemia among young children and women of
reproductive age. Food security is not only threatened by the population's lack of resources -
65 percent of households that cut back on food consumption reported lack of money as the
reason - but also by shortages of supplies in Palestinian shops. The Johns Hopkins study
found that movement restrictions have severely disrupted the availability of key high protein
foods like meat and dairy products, and in particular infant formula and powdered milk.
Palestinians have come to rely on informal social safety nets during economically depressed
periods, as most assistance is being provided by family, relatives or neighbors (60 percent of
food assistance and 11 percent of cash assistance). Many families have resorted to selling
gold and other household assets to survive the difficult times. But coping strategies such as
these, which have been relied on for the past two years, are unsustainable and quickly being.
exhausted.
Education services
7.    The Intifada has impacted the education sector in many ways. The quality of
education has suffered significantly. The top priority for education providers has been to
minimize disruptions to schooling and focus on keeping the schools running. Despite this,
and since the beginning of the school year in September 2002, 185 schools with 120,000
students (12 percent) are being closed, and an average of 40 percent of school days have
already been lost in Jenin, Nablus, Tulkarem and Hebron due to Israeli military curfews,
closures and home confinement. In addition, during last scholastic year 2001/2002, PCBS
reports that 60 percent of school children (542,000) were absent from school for at least one
day, with a median of ten days. During the period March 29 - May 1, 2002 the MOEHE
reports that about 500,000 students and 35,000 administrative and teaching staff were
confined to their homes.
8.    Physical damage to schools and institutes of higher education, restrictions on
movements and curfews have intensified since March 2002. Four Universities and 180
schools were partially or completely damaged with a total loss of US$7.8 million. In
addition, 274 students were killed, 2,698 injured and 190 arrested. Over 30 percent of
students are without textbooks and learning materials.
9.    This year, with the economy on the verge of collapse, many Palestinian parents are
unable to afford to send their children to school.' According to UNICEF, some 31-7,000
Palestinian school children are now in desperate need of assistance due to financial hardship.
10.   Institutions of higher education in WBG are facing serious financial difficulties. This
is mainly due to the socio-economic and political instability resulting from the conflict.
Human casualties stand at 119 students killed, more than 600 injured and 300 imprisoned:
Considerable physical damages were incurred during the latest Israeli incursion of April and
May 2002, and the severe economic recession has had a direct impact on the ability of
students to cover the cost of their higher education. Over the last twelve months an estimated



4
US$6 million/month operating cost deficit has had to be absorbed by higher education
institutions (totaling US$72 million), added to it an estimated US$7.8 million of tuition loss.
The accumulated fiscal losses of the higher education sector amount to US$79.8 million.
11.   The World Bank currently supports the education sector in WBG through its ongoing
"Education Action Project (EAP) for US$7.00 million," which aims at improving the
management of the education system to deliver quality services, and at supporting the
Ministry in implementing the activities of the five-year plan. To cope with the current crisis,
the Bank has agreed to the Ministry's request to reallocate US$1.14 million within the project
to finance damage repairs resulting from the March/April 2002 incursions. In addition, a
Palestinian Higher Education Financing Strategy has been prepared by the Palestinian
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MOHESR) with financial and
technical support provided by the Bank. The main purpose of the strategy is to create a more
effective, accessible, efficient, sustainable and accountable higher education system.
Health services
12.   Closures and curfews impose severe restrictions on access to health facilities for both
patients and medical personnel. All health programs including vaccinations, women's health,
child health, environmental health and preventive medicine are adversely affected, due to the
inability to deliver services and medicines to hospitals and health centers, and for
environmental, health insecticides and chlorine to water tanks - factors that may ultimately
result in the spread of epidemics.
13.   According to the OXFAM study "The Forgotten Villages in the West Bank," closures
deny village families access to basic services available in towns, cities, and villages. Health
and water are now for many households either too expensive or simply not available.
Increasingly, families are forced to use dangerous or inappropriate alternatives - such as
riding donkeys to the hospital, or unplanned home births - or to simply do without.
14.   Closures are creating a growing number of destitute families that are suffering from
malnutrition, chronic health problems, welfare dependency, and psychological stress. As the
main household managers, women are bearing the brunt of closure impact.
15.   The absence of regular monitoring, particularly in environmental health services, is
causing food and water born diseases, vector born diseases, and other environmental health
problems, including garbage, sewage vector, water, food, and animal (zoonotic) diseases
control. In July 2002, outbreaks of Shigellosis were reported in the Nablus area due to water
contamination arising from damaged sewage and water pipe infrastructure.
16.   The Palestinian Ministry of Health published recent data concerning the impacts of
closures and curfews on patients since September 19, 2000 to September 1, 2002.



5
Number of patients unable to access health services
from September 19, 2000 -: September 1, 2002
| Children | Females [ Males  |   Total
Patient fatalities at Israeli checkpoints  |  17  7  24  [  31    |    72
Deliveries at Israeli checkpoints and homes       45              1    4
due to siege conditions                             - _  I
Babies delivered and died at checkpoints and 1  27                     27
homes due to siege                  |
Source: MOH
17.   The Health Sector Bi-weekly Report, Number 2 (August 19, 2002), published by John
Hopkins University, Alquds University, MARAM and Care International/ ANERA, indicates
that access to services is more affected in the West Bank than Gaza, most likely due to the
greater restrictions of movement in the former. The emergency's impact on access to health
service facilities has significantly impacted health workers as well as patients. Staff in 46 of
the 94 clinics surveyed (49 percent of the total) reported having been unable to reach the
facility where they work at least once during the previous two weeks. The overwhelming
majority (45 out of 46 facilities) indicated that the primary factor in their inability to reach
work was curfews and closures.
18.   Forty of the 94 clinics surveyed since May 31, 2002, (44 percent) have had to suspend
or cancel one or more services for more than one day in the two weeks prior to the survey
interview. The proportion of clinics reporting such disruptions in services has remained
steady, within a range of less than five percent from round to round. Primary care, prenatal
care and emergency services in particular have been disrupted, followed by Pharmaceutical
services. All but three of the 40 facilities (92. percent), reporting having had to suspend
services, indicated that curfews/closures were a primary reason for suspension of services. At
the time of the survey interviews, 17 facilities out of the 40 (42 percent) had not yet resumed
those services.
19.   The World Health Organization (WHO) recently reported (Situation Report, Occupied
Palestinian Territories-July 2002) an alarming decline in the accessibility and affordability of
medical services:
*  UNRWA reports decreases in access to preventive services, including a 52 percent
decrease in women receiving post-natal care (of the 90 percent of women
attending pre-natal care pre-Intifada), and a 31 percent decrease in new
acceptances on their family planning scheme;
*  UNRWA reports from among its patients a 58 percent increase in the number of
still births (particularly in the Jenin and Hebron areas);
*  Hospitals report a decline in access to services. For example, St Luke's hospital in
Nablus reports a 49 percent decline in general practice patients, a 73 percent
decline in specialty services and a 53 percent decline in surgeries. The only
ophthalmic hospital in the West Bank is in Jerusalem;



6
* The MOH also reports a 60 percent decline in implementation of school health
programs.
20.   Health services provided by the MOH have also deteriorated. The Ministry is unable
to finance the costs of operating and maintaining health facilities including communication,
fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent for health facilities, food, cleaning contracts, cleaning
materials, transportation, linen, uniforms, stationary and the essential repair or replacement of
ambulances damaged during the conflict. The MOH is facing shortages in essential drugs and
medical consumables, vaccines, laboratory and blood bank materials and it is unable to meet
the needs of patients requiring critical medical treatment abroad.
21.   Collective Donor Response to the Emergency.   A number of initiatives are
underway to assist the PA in responding to the emergency.  An elaborate donor aid
coordination structure was already in place and was revived in response to the crisis.
Regarding damages caused in March-April 2002, most donors began reallocating funds to
finance infrastructure and building repairs, as well as other emergency assistance to restore
institutional capacity and the provision of essential services both nationally and locally. This
exercise was informed by a coordinated donor-PA Physical and Institutional Damage
Assessment completed at the end of May in which several donors assumed responsibility for
gathering data in different segmented areas of the West Bank.  The findings of this
Assessment have helped guide the PA and donors in reallocating financing toward prioritized
emergency needs, while avoiding duplication of effort.
22.   A Political Roadmap to Peace. Although it is premature to consider any new
political initiative an indicator of a future outcome, there has been some movement on the
diplomatic front.  The Quartet, a newly-established apex-level political coordination
mechanism comprised of the US, the European Union, Russia, and the United Nations, met on
September 17 to agree on a plan which in three phases would lead to the establishment of a
Palestinian State. The first phase, which runs until mid-2003, includes Palestinian security
reform under US and regional auspices; an Israeli military withdrawal to positions held in
September 2000; and support of "free, fair and credible elections" early next year in the
Palestinian areas. The Second Phase, which is scheduled to begin in mid-2003, "should focus
on the option of creating a Palestinian State with provisional borders and based on a new
Constitution." The Final Phase, proposed to be implemented from 2004 to mid-2005, includes
permanent status talks and a final peace agreement between the two sides. In parallel a Task
Force on Palestinian Reform was established to which the Bank provides analytical support,
particularly in three areas of focus: (i) civil service reforms, (ii) local government reforms,
and (iii) financial accountability reforms.
23.   A Renewed Focus on Palestinian Reforms. The Palestinian Authority is in the midst
of a broad-based reform movement which was launched in June with a cabinet reshuffle and
the announcement of a Palestinian 100 Day Reform Program. Supporting this reform effort is
a newly formed Task Force on Palestinian Reform, which includes an active role for donors.
The Bank is deeply involved in two sector areas - Local Government Reform and Public



7
Administration/Civil Service Reform. The most notable reforms to date have been initiated at
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) by its newly appointed minister. Since June, MOF has:
i.    Adopted a more disciplined approach to the budget with a reduction of budgetary
expenditures to about US$70 million per month, down from an average
expenditure level of US$90 million, in part to avoid further accumulation of
arrears;
ii.   Consolidated all PA revenues, including those of the PA petroleum and tobacco
agencies, into a single Treasury account;
iii.  Installed controls to prevent issuance of checks without adequate cover;
iv.   Resumed transfers of civil servant contributions to the Govemment Pension Fund
in Gaza, which were previously accumulating as arrears; and
v.    Consolidated the payroll function in Gaza at the Ministry of Finance to exert
tighter controls over civil service recruitment.
24.   In addition to these reforms, MOF has also initiated central transfers due to local
govemments based on their share of revenue from traffic fines and vehicle licensing fees. The
first such transfer of NIS 15 million was made in September, representing a renewed attempt
to realign intergovemmental fiscal transfer practices with the local government law. This
represents a significant step forward in terms of intergovemmental fiscal relations, as
previously shared revenues were withheld by MOF and used to cover accumulating local
govemment arrears to foreign creditors. However, in making the September transfer, MOF
also informed LGUs that it was in the process of assessing cross arrears and that when this
assessment is completed it would begin to reschedule municipal debt to the PA.
II.   BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
25.   In the absence of a CAS, the Executive Directors approved on February 28, 2002 the
"Status Report to the Board on the Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank and Strategic
Outlook." This document outlines the Bank's proposed strategy in WBG for 2002, which: (i)
aims to continue laying the institutional foundation for statehood through knowledge-based
analytical and policy work, and operations that encourage the development of sound
govemance institutions at the central and sector levels; and (ii) in the context of the current
crisis, continues providing analytical and programmatic leadership to the collective donor
effort to cope with the emergency, while initiating multi-donor operations to support the
delivery of essential social services and the maintenance/recovery of private sector activity.
The proposed project supports the second objective.
26.   As its contribution to the collective donor response, the Bank carried out a
comprehensive portfolio review in May-June 2002 and reallocated US$19.9 million from its
active portfolio, of which US$12.9 million was reallocated for emergency purposes, while a



8
further US$7 million was cancelled from one project and returned to TFGWB for future
emergency or development assistance.  This assistance, comprising the Bank's most
immediate response, is now under implementation through existing project implementation
mechanisms. In addition, the Bank prepared an Emergency Services Support Project (US$20
million), which became effective in March 2002 to provide budgetary support to line
ministries to sustain essential health, education, social and local government services in
response to the widening PA revenue-expenditure gap. This operation has leveraged over
US$45 million in co-financing from seven donors and has proven to be an important
instrument in mobilizing donor assistance and in leveraging the Bank's contribution.
27.   Rationale for the Bank's Involvement. The Bank has considerable global and
WBG-specific experience in designing and implementing emergency operations in response
to natural disasters and emergencies arising in conflict-affected settings, and, in WBG in
particular, is often relied upon to lead such efforts. The first three operations implemented by
the TFGWB in WBG4 were all emergency in nature and benefited from simplicity in design,
while contributing toward the establishment of Palestinian implementation capacity in the
absence of such capacity at the outset. Moreover, the Bank has demonstrated an ability to
respond rapidly to emergency needs through its US$12 million contribution to the Emergency
Response Program5, launched in December 2000 - only two months after the start of the
Intifada -- in which the Bank and five other donors provided over US$37 million to create
temporary employment opportunities through small-scale infrastructure microprojects.
Furthermore, the Bank's continuing ability to mobilize resources and to contribute by
providing a framework for other donor assistance is illustrated by the Emergency Services
Support Project. In addition, the Bank's Country Office is staffed with highly skilled and
experienced national and international staff - both in West Bank and Gaza - which enables it
to more effectively administer and supervise emergency programs than many of the smaller
bilateral donors. This is the principal reason - in addition to the leveraging effect -- that many
bilateral donors have sought the Bank's assistance in administering their cofinancing.
28.   Lessons Learned from Previous Similar Operations. A major lesson leamed from
recent emergency operations supported by the Bank is that developing countries are becoming
increasingly aware of the need to put in place measures to prevent or reduce risks arising due
to crises. The past ten years have seen an increase in the number of Bank-supported
emergency recovery projects, and also a steep learning curve in the Bank's own
understanding of how to operationalize sustainable interventions. This institutional knowledge
was brought to bear on the proposed project through the Ad Hoc Advisory Committee, which
advised the task team. The task team also benefited from a Quality At Entry Review
conducted on the first ESSP project by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), which also
yielded helpful lessons.
4 Emergency Rehabilitation Project I and II (November 1994 and May 1996 respectively) and the Education and
Health Rehabilitation Project (February 1998).
5 The Bank's contribution to the Emergency Response Program (ERSP) channeled a contribution of US$12
million through the Bank-administered Holst Fund and leveraged a further US$25 million in joint co-financing
through the PEACE Facility in support of emergency job creation through infrastructure micro-projects.



9
29.   With respect to Bank experience in WBG, ESSP I demonstrated that decentralization
of service administration and delivery minimizes implementation delays. Line ministry upits
were responsible for implementation and the Ministry of Finance had a project management
unit with primarily a coordination and monitoring role. In addition, reliance on the staff qf
the Ministry of Local Government to administer the municipal services component of the
Project proved to be difficult due to capacity weaknesses. For this reason, the municipal
component of ESSP I has been spun off and restructured in a proposed separate operation,
allowing for focused attention on emergency assistance, sector dialogue, and reform at toe
local government level. A second lesson is that a project of this type must be kept simple ir}
terms of objective, components and implementation arrangements. Thus priority needs whiph
would require structural or policy reforms were not included. In particular for this reason ¢
was decided not to support the higher education sector in ESSP II. Simplified implementation
arrangements adapted to the particular situation in WBG include: ministries authorized to
establish specified sub-accounts and make 30 day advance transfers to these accounts to help
with prompt disbursement; and streamlined Bank procurement procedures to facilitate the
flow of funds. The US$20 million Trust Fund Credit for ESSP I became effective in MarVph
2002. By mid November it was 65 percent disbursed. It is expected to be fully disbursed by
March 2003, well ahead of the completion date of December 31, 2003. The associated,
cofinancing, which is mainly administered by the Bank, has disbursed at a comparable pace
since effectiveness of the various agreements over the course of the summer. The third lesson
was the value of good and timely planning for resource allocation, for procurement, and fcr
disbursement, and close cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the participating
line ministries.
30.   A final key lesson learned from ESSP I and other related emergency operations is t4e
importance of maintaining close coordination with other donors.  There was close
collaboration at both the project preparation and project implementation phases. The Ministry
of Finance invites the participating donors to its quarterly Inter-Ministerial Review Meetings
for the project, and the monthly progress summary reports are also made available to donors,
This has provided transparency and a helpful feedback mechanism.
III.  DETAILED PROGRAM DEscRIPTIoN
Program Development Objectives
31.   The program objectives are to mitigate the deterioration in education, health and sqcial
welfare services resulting from the economic crisis and its consequent fiscal impact by
financing goods and services necessary to deliver these services.
Component 1: Financing Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditures
Education Services (Total: US$24.50 million)
32.   This sub-component will cover the following operating budget items of the MOEHE.



10
(i) Recurrent Expenditures (Total: US$5.85 million). This sub-component will
finance expenditures such as: (a) rent payments of school buildings; (b) transportation
including fuel, vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; (c) water and electricity
utilities for schools, directorates and the Ministry headquarters; (d) communication
including telephones and mail; (e) consumables such as cleaning materials and other
perishable items; (f) maintenance of equipment and buildings; and (g) heating fuel.
(ii) Printing of scientific textbooks (Total: US$7.60 million). This sub-component will
finance the printing and re-printing by the PA of scientific textbooks covering all
school grades.
(iii) General Examinations (Total US$2.70 million). This sub-component would
finance stationary; printing of examinations; and the payment of per diem expenses
(transportation, meals and lodging) to examination monitors and reviewers.
(iv) Support for School Activities (Total US$0.50 million). This sub-component would
finance materials required for school activities such as sports, arts, science, home
economics and other summer school activities.
(v) Vocational and Commercial Education Schools (Total: US$0.75 million). This
sub-component would finance essential tools and raw materials used on a daily basis
in training students in different vocational and commercial disciplines.
(vi) Support to Higher Education Institutions (Total: US$7.10 million). This sub-
component would provide support to the recurrent budgets of Higher Education
Institutions and Universities, bridging the gap between the normative cost and the
current tuition levels for high priority fields of study.
MUea*h Services (Total: US$52.20 million)
33.   This sub-component will cover the following operating budget items of the MOH.
(i) Essential Drugs and Medical Consumables (Total: US$26.20 million). This sub-
component will finance the procurement of essential drugs, vaccines, laboratory and
blood bank materials and other medical consumables, allowing for retroactive
financing to September 1, 2002.
(ii) Non-medical Recurrent Expenditures (Total: US$12.00 million). This sub-
component will finance non-medical costs of operating and maintaining health
facilities, including communication, fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent for health
facilities, cleaning services, cleaning materials, transportation, linen, uniforms and
stationary.
(iii) Treatment in Private/Non Governmental Clinics (Total: US$12.00 million). This
sub-component will finance contracts with private/non-govemmental medical
institutions for providing services that are not available by public facilities in the area.



11
(iv) Nutrition Services (Total: US$1.00 million). This sub-component will cover the
provision of supplementary milk formulas and iron supplements to public clinics as
part of a wider program of addressing the phenomenon of malnutrition amongst
children below 5 years of age and lactating mothers.
(v) Hospital Food Contracts (Total: US$1.00 million). This sub-component will
finance the cost of food for hospitals.
Social Assistance Services (Total: US$3.3 million)
34.   This sub-component will cover the recurrent operating budget of the MOSA and its
Shelters/Rehabilitation and Training Centers. It will also upgrade some of the essential
equipment used in the shelters and vocational training centers. These centers provide school
dropouts with labor market technical skills and rehabilitation and reintegration services to
dysfunctional youth, the elderly and the disabled. A total of 14 such centers are run directly
by MOSA or by NGOs under contract with MOSA.
(i) Recurrent Expenditures (Total: US$2.50 million). This sub-component will
finance expenditures such as: rent, transportation, fuel, vehicle rental, insurance,
licensing and insurance, water and electricity utilities, communication including
telephones and mail, office supplies, maintenance of equipment and buildings, and
heating fuel.
(ii) Equipment for Shelters/Rehabilitation and Training Centers (Total: US$0.5
million). This sub-component will cover procurement of work tools, seats for the
disabled, workshop equipment, as well as computers, generators/heating units, and
furniture and engineering services for the rehabilitation/maintenance of handicapped
rehabilitation centers.
(iii) Minor Rehabilitation Works on Shelters/Rehabilitation and Training Centers
(Total: US$0.3 million). This sub-component will cover minor priority rehabilitation
works that aie intended to maintain MOSA's Centers/Shelters.
Support to Key Ministries (Total: US$2.10 million).
35.   This sub-component will assist the MOF in financing selected operating budget items
of other ministries focusing on incremental expenditures, including rent, transportation
(including fuel), vehicle maintenance, licensing and insurance; water and electricity utilities,
communication including telephones and mail, consumables, minor maintenance of
equipment, and heating fuel.



12
Component 2: Project Management and Monitoring (Total: US$0.60 million)
36.   This component will finance costs related to project management, including the
staffing of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the provision of essential equipment, and
targeted technical assistance that will enhance the capacity of participating ministries in
delivering better service in their respective special areas. The component will also finance
external audits.
Program       Bank-
Program Component                                Indicative   financing
Costs       (US$M)
(US$M)
1. Non Salary Recurrent Expenditures:
1.1 Education Services                              24.50         8.55
1.2 Health Services                                 52.20         13.45
1.3 Social Assistance Services                       3.30         1.00
1.4 Support to other key ministries                  2.10         1.10
Sub-total Non-Salary Recurrent Expenditures  81.90       24.00
2. Project Management Monitoring                     0.60         0.30
Unallocated                                          1.30          0.60
Total Project Costs   84.00         25.00
Project Description
37.   From the Program components described above, the project will finance only the
following components under the proposed Trust Fund Grant.
38.   Component 1: Non Salary Recurrent Expenditures. (a) Education Services: (i)
recurrent expenditures (US$5.85 million), and (ii) general examinations (US$2.70 million) for
a total amount of US$8.55 million; (b) Health Services: (i) essential drugs and medical
consumables (US$7.60 million), (ii) non-medical recurrent expenditures (US$3.60 million),
(iii) treatment in private/non governmental clinics (US$1.30 million), (iv) nutrition services
(US$0.45 million), and (v) hospital food contracts (US$0.50 million), for a total amount of
US$13.45 million; (c) Social Assistance Services: (i) recurrent expenditures (US$0.60
million), (ii) equipment for Shelters/Rehabilitation and Training Centers (US$0.35 million),
and (iii) minor rehabilitation works on Shelters/Rehabilitation and Training Centers (US$0.05
million), for a total amount of US$1.00 million; and (d) Support to Key Ministries (US$1.10
million). The total amount of financing for Component 1 is US$24 million.
39.   Component 2: Project Management and Monitoring. The Grant will finance
project management costs, equipment and technical assistance and training to the ministries in
charge of implementing the project for a total of US$0.3 million. The Grant will not finance
any studies. An amount of US$0.6 million is unallocated and will be allocated on the basis of
decisions on priorities by the MOF and line ministries with IDA's prior approval.



13
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
41.   The project will have the same implementation arrangements as those for ESSP I.
Overall management of ESSP I has been handled by the MOF through a PCU staffed with a
project coordinator, a financial officer, a procurement officer, an accountant, and a secretary.
The PCU will act as a liaison between the MOF and the participating line ministries. It will
report to the Head of the MOF Budget Departmentl who is IDA's first line of contact, and
who is responsible for ensuring timely submission of project monthly statements and
quarterly reports.
42.   The physical implementation of the project components will be the responsibility of
the line ministries concerned (MOH, MOEHE, MOSA and MOF). IDA will provide technical
support to the ministries to ensure proper monitoring and compliance with IDA's
procurement, financial management and reporting procedures.
43.   The Inter-Ministerial Committee, consisting' of representatives of the line ministries
and the MOF, will continue to exercise project oversight. The Committee will meet every
three months, inviting donors to participate, to review quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMR), which summarize the progress in the implementation of the project, and to discuss
any impeding factors.
44.   In its quarterly meetings, the Inter-Ministerial Committee will exchange with donors
information on the line ministries' budgets (revenues and expenditures) in an effort to
coordinate existing efforts in support of PA operating cost/service delivery programs.
Program Adjustment
45.   As with ESSP I, ESSP II will support emergency needs in an evolving situation and
will likely need to be adjusted from time to time iaccording to the beneficiaries' changing
needs, and in accordance with IDA and other donors' guidelines. Any reallocation within
and/or between programs for each beneficiary should be allowed, and would be considered in
consultation with IDA. Any variations in the sub-programs shall be validated through mutual
agreement between the MOF and the line ministries, with no objection from IDA.
Financial Management
46.   ESSP II will build on the financial management (FM) experience and lessons learnt
from ESSP I, and will follow the same FM arrangements, whereby each of the four
implementing ministries is responsible for the implementation of its own components,
managing its own separate Special Account (SA) under the supervision of MOF, and all
related financial transactions. The MOF will continue to host the PCU, which will maintain
its overall supervisory role.
47.   To ensure that funds are readily available for project implementation, each
implementing ministry will have separate SAs (four accounts in total). The four SAs will be



14
opened in US dollars at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA and will be operated by
respective participating ministries under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
48.   Under ESSP I, FM   assessments were performned on the participating ministries
financial management systems, including the accounting systems, accounting policies and
procedures, budgeting systems, reporting, staffing, internal controls policies and procedures,
internal auditing and external auditing arrangements. These assessments were updated and
are included in the project files. They showed that the financial management systems in place
at the participating line ministries and the MOF are based on principles and procedures
defined by the Organic Budget Law, financial directives, and operational decrees applicable
to PA agencies. The control environments at participating ministries were found to be
adequate. However the financial systems lack the support of a project management module
and require enhancement to become capable of generating timely project reports. The
participating ministries, being aware of the system shortcomings, implemented a project
accounting system independent from the PA accounting system to allow for proper follow up
on project accounting transactions that generate necessary reports in a timely manner.
Accordingly, this will enable their accounting departments to generate periodical reports for
projects financed by IDA and other international donors.
49.   The PCU will prepare and submit to IDA monthly statements on the progress of the
project. In addition, each of the participating ministries will submit within 30 days of the end
of each quarter to the PCU quarterly FMR for review and comments. These FMRs will
include: (a) general progress report on project implementation; (b) sources and uses of all
funds; (c) expenditures per project component and activities; (d) project balance sheet; (e)
statement of reconciliation of the SAs; (f) procurement under the said thresholds; and (g)
report on budgeted cash requirements forecast for the following quarter, and analysis of
differences between planned and actual costs. A sample of FMRs is included in the PIP.
These reports will provide a basis for spot check audits by the external auditor to ascertain the
achievement of physical progress in the implementation of the Project. The PCU will send to
IDA the FMRs along with auditor comments and observations within 45 days after the quarter
end.
50.   Withdrawal of funds will follow traditional methods of disbursements by means of
reimbursements and replenishments to the SAs with SOEs and/or full documentation, special
commitments and direct payments accompanied by supporting documentation. The Project's
financial statements, including SOEs and the SAs, will be audited annually by an independent
auditor, acceptable to IDA, in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards and
terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The audit report will be sent to IDA no later than four
(4) months following the closing of the fiscal year subject to the audit. Audit costs will be
eligible for IDA financing.
Procurement
51.   A procurement assessment of the MOH, MOEHE, MOSA and MOF has been carried
out by IDA, and can be found in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). All of these
institutions have experience working on Bank projects and are familiar with IDA guidelines.



15
In particular, the procurement arrangements below draw from the experience of ESSP I, as
well as the co-financing agreements TF050492, TF050691, and TF050575, especially in
terms of financing food and medical treatment. Ministry staff will be further trained by IDA
field office staff, who will follow up on project implementation closely. The auditors on each
component will ensure that funds are properly used for the purpose they are intended. The
overall procurement risks have been assessed as average.
Procurement methods (Table A)
52.   All contracts financed by IDA will follow IDA guidelines as stipulated below.
53.   Procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and! IDA Credits," January 1995 (revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Bank standard bidding
documents and domestic preference will apply in accordance with the provisions for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
54.   Procurement for services will follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 (revised
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002).
Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements under the project.
55.   Civil Works (US$0.05 million)The Trust Fund Grant (TFG) would finance minor
priority rehabilitation works to maintain MOSA's centers and shelters. All contracts would
be small in value. No International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement of works would
be feasible since the estimated contract value and tgeographic dispersion would not likely
attract international contractors. A typical menu of maintenance and rehabilitation works
could include painting, maintenance and repair of Ipublic buildings, and other small labor
intensive construction activities that require materials procured in the local market.
56.   Simple works and incidental materials and labor (US$0.05 million). Small works,
including incidental materials and tools, will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
57.   Goods (US$12.00 million). Goods procured for the project will include: essential
drugs, vaccines and medical consumables, hospital sheets and emergency room materials,
food and other nutritional supplements, office equipment and supplies, fuel, cleaning
materials, computer hardware and software, educational equipment and furniture, educational
video and audio production, instructional and technical materials, raw materials and tools for



16
vocational and commercial education schools, first aid materials, fire extinguishers, etc. To
the extent possible, goods would be grouped together in lots of similar items and procured
under the following procedures:
58.   International Competitive Bidding (US$1.50 million).  Except as noted below,
contracts for goods will be procured through ICB, and the Bank's standard documents for
bidding and bid evaluation will apply.
59.   National Competitive Bidding (US$7.00 milion). Contracts for goods estimated to
cost less than US$500,000 equivalent and up to an aggregate amount of US$7.00 million may
be procured through NCB procedures, provided that the bidding documents are acceptable to
IDA. This method would also include the procurement of food. All NCB procurement of
goods will be advertised in at least two local newspapers.
60.   International and National Shopping (ISINS) (US$4.00 million). Contracts for
goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, and up to an aggregate
amount of US$4.00 million, will be procured through IS by obtaining competitive price
quotations from at least three foreign suppliers from two different countries. NS procedures
may be used instead if the desired goods are available at competitive prices from at least three
sources in West Bank and Gaza.
61.   Direct Contracting (DC). In exceptional cases, such as the purchase of proprietary
items, and replacement parts of existing equipment, goods may be procured from the nearest
available source using DC.
62.   Services (US$2.05 million). Services contracts will include technical assistance and
capacity building necessary to ensure that the program runs smoothly, as well as contracts for
medical treatment in private clinics and cleaning services. These services will be procured
under the following procedures in conformity with IDA guidelines:
63.   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)/Least Cost Selection (LCS). Contracts
for auditing, engineering, and cleaning services, estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent for firms, and more than US$50,000 for individuals, will be awarded according to
QCBS procedures, and the LCS method for the evaluation of financial proposals.
64.   Consultants' Qualifications (CQ). For consulting contracts with firms estimated to
cost less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, consulting firms with
the most suitable qualifications shall be selected on the basis on TOR and a short list.
65.   Service Delivery Contractors (SDC) (US$1.3 million).  Contracts for medical
treatment through private or NGO clinics will be awarded on the basis of the QCBS selection
method. The successful provider will be awarded a Service Delivery Contract, as provided in
Paragraph 3.19 of the guidelines. The MOH already has extensive experience in contracting
for these services.



17
66.    Individual Consultants. For consulting contracts with individuals, estimated to cost
less than US$50,000, the selection shall be based on Section V (Selection of Individual
Consultants) of IDA guidelines.
67.    Single   Source   (SS) Selection.     In  exceptional circumstances   where   narrow
specialization and availability of providers do not offer alternatives, SS selection may be
employed for contracts with firms, individuals or services providers.
68.    Operating Costs (US$10.40 million). Operating Costs include: non-salary recurrent
expenditures for MOEHE, MOH and MOSA institutions. It would include: utility charges,
maintenance, banking charges, communication services, translation charges, advertisement
costs relating solely to the procurement process under the Project, domestic travel costs
(including transport and per diem), labor costs, vehicle insurance, hospital hazard insurance,
office rent, school rent, health facility rent and rent of facilities for MOEHE, MOH, MOSA,
MOF and other ministries of the Palestinian Authority.
69.    Retroactive financing (US$5.00 million).       The Grant will retroactively finance
eligible expenditures incurred after September 1, 2002. In accordance with paragraph 1.11 of
IDA "Consultants' Guidelines," and paragraph 1.9 of IDA "Guidelines for Procurement of
Goods and Works," IDA will review the applications for retroactive financing to ensure that it
is satisfied with the procedures followed for the award of the contracts.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category            ICB        NCB        Other'       N.B.F.2    Total Cost
1. Works                                               0.05         0.45         0.50
(0.05)                    (0.05)
2. Goods                         1.50       6.50       4.00         30.00        42.00
(1.50)     (6.50)      (4.00)                   (12.00)
3. Food                                    0.50                     0.50         1.00
(0.50)                                (0.50)
4. Services                                            2.05         2.75         4.80
(2.05)                    (2.05)
5. Operating Costs                                     10.40        25.30        35.70
(10.40)                   (10.40)
Total                         1.50       7.00       16.50        59.00        84.00
(1.50)     (7.00)      (16.50)                  (25.00)
Totals may not add up due to rounding. All costs include contingencies.
1/ Includes goods to be procured through intemational/national shopping and direct contracting, services (including contracts
with NGOs and private health facilities), services of contracted staff of the project management office, technical assistance
services, and operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) non-salary recurrent expenditures for MOEHE,
MOH, MOSA, and costs for PA ministries.
2/ N.B.F.: Non Bank Financed



18
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
70.    Civil Works: The first three civil works contracts procured through simplified NCB
bidding procedures will be subject to prior review. Post-review will be conducted during
supervision missions.
71.    Goods: All contracts for goods procured through ICB, the first three contracts for
each ministry procured through NCB, and all contracts procured through DC will be subject
to prior review. Ex-post review will be conducted during supervision missions.
72.    Services: All Terms of Reference (TOR), regardless of the amount of the contract,
will be subject to prior review. All contracts above US$100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for
individual consultants, and all SS contracts, irrespective of their amount, will be subject to
prior review (including TORs, short lists, requests for proposals, draft contracts, technical and
financial proposals, and contract awards). The contract for auditing services will be subject to
prior review. Procedures and draft contracts with SDC will be reviewed and agreed upon and
will, subsequently, be subject to ex-post review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                        Contracts Subject to
Threshold          Procurement         Prior Review
Expenditure Category   (US$ thousands)        Method            (US$ millions)
1. Works                     N/A             Simplified NCB     First three contracts
2. Goods                   > $500,000            ICB                  All
(including food)           < $500,000            NCB                First three
contracts
for each ministry
N/A                 DC                   All
3. Services
Firms
- Consultants' and        > $100,000          QCBS, LCS               All
training                  < $100,000             CQ                 All TOR
- SDC                     >$ 100,000             SDC           Review selection and
- Other services          Individuals                          procedures & contract
> $50,000          QCBS, LCS               All
< $50,000         Comparison of          All TOR
qualifications
Other services               N/A                 SS                   All
73.   Procurement Planning.    The monitoring system presently in use for goods and
services includes data on the main procurement steps (date of advertisement, bid document
date, bid evaluation date, awarded bidder, estimated and actual cost, progress to date versus
plan). By December 31, 2002, a detailed procurement plan will be prepared for the first year
of the project and will be included in the PIP. This will be a blueprint for subsequent years.



19
74.    Advertising.    A  General Procurement Notice (GPN) shall be prepared by Board
presentation and published in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) shortly
thereafter. All procurement on the basis of ICB shall also be published in UNDB, as well as
in at least two local newspapers. Procurement of goods on the basis of NCB will be
advertised in at least two local newspapers. All consulting contracts with firms shall be
advertised in at least two local newspapers. In addition, all consulting contracts with firms
estimated to cost more than US$200,000 shall also be advertised in UNDB to obtain
expressions of interest.
Disbursement Arrangements
75.    The proposed Grant of US$25.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over a period of
18 months, up to the closing date of December 31, 2004. The allocation of the grant proceeds
according to each expenditure category is shown in Table C. Retroactive financing will be
available for eligible expenditures incurred after September 1, 2002, up to a maximum of
US$5.0 million equivalent. A disbursement schedule is shown in Table D.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$million    Financing Percentage
1. Civil works                                                            100%
MOSA                                           0.050
2. Goods                                                                 100%
MOEHE                                          1.465
MOH                                            9.300
MOSA                                           0.515
MOF and Others                                 0.200
3. Food                                                                   100%
MOH                                            0.500
4. Consultants and Other Services                            .            100%
MOH                                            1.800
MOF and Others                                 0.250
5. Operating Costs                                                100% until December
31, 2003, and 75%
thereafter
MOEHE                                          7.085
MOH                                            1.850
MOSA                                           0.435
MOF and Others                                 0.950
Unallocated                                       0.600
Total Grant Costs                                 25.00
Services include: contracts with private clinics for medical treatment cleaning contracts, technical assistance and capacity
building
Goods include Nfuel, consumables ,office equipment and supplies, hospital textile materials, furniture, equipment, vehicles,
raw materials, drugs and medical disposables, supplies, and other
Operating Costs include: non-salary recurrent expenditures for MOEHE, MOH and MOSA institutions, and operating costs
for Ministries of Education and Higher Education, Health, Social Affairs, and Finance. It would include: utility charges,



20
mnaintenance, banking charges, communication charges, translation charges, advertisement costs relating solely to the
procurement process under the Project, domestic travel costs (including transport and per diem), labor costs, vehicle insurance,
hospital hazard insurance, offce rent, school rent, health facility rent and rent offacilities for MOEHE, MOH, MOSA, MOF and
other ministries of the Palestinian Authority.
Exemption of taxes and customns duties levied in the parts of the West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the PA on
works, goods and services for the Project
Table D: Disbursement Schedule
Quarter-CY    Q1-2003   02-2003    03-2003     4-2003   Q1-2004   02-2004   03-2004  04-2004
Absolute         2.0       3.0       5.0        5.0        5.0   |    3.5  1   1.5 |    0.5
Cumulative       2.0       6.0      11.0       16.0       21.0       24.5     25.0     25.0
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
76.    Disbursements from the Grant will be fully documented for contracts for goods, with an
estimated value above US$500,000 equivalent, contracts for consulting firms with an
estimated value above US$100,000, and contracts for individual consultants with an estimated
value above US$50,000. Disbursements for all other expenditures including SDC will be
against SOEs, with supporting documentation retained in the respective implementing units
and made available for IDA review during supervision missions. SOEs will be subject to an
annual audit.    All other disbursements from    the Grant would be supported by full
documentation and signed contracts.
Special Account
77.    To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Grant, four SAs
will be established at commercial banks in WBG acceptable to IDA. The SAs will be
operated by the Budget and Finance units in the ministries (MOF, MOH, MOSA, and
MOEHE) under terms satisfactory to IDA. The MOF will co-sign all withdrawal applications
(WAs). Each SA will be maintained as a separate identifiable account to be used exclusively
for project expenditures financed by IDA. IDA will, upon request, make an authorized
allocation of no more than four months' average projected expenditures from the SA of each
component funded by IDA. The replenishment applications will be supported by the
necessary documentation in accordance with IDA guidelines, including a bank statement of
the SA and a reconciliation bank statement of the SA against IDA records. Applications to
replenish the SAs, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly
(preferably bimonthly, but not less than monthly). The SAs and SOEs will be audited
annually as part of the annual financial audits by independent private auditors acceptable to
IDA. The allocation of the SAs will be as follows: (a) MOEHE: US$1.7 million; (b) MOH:
$2.7 million; (c) MOSA: US$100,000; and (d) MOF: $130,000. Because of the possibility of
closures of West Bank towns or Gaza, SA 30-day Advance Procedure may be allowed. Under
this procedure, sub-accounts may be opened in a commercial bank in Ramallah (for the MOF,
MOH, and MOSA, main account will be in Gaza), and in Gaza (for the MOEHE, main
account will be in Ramallah). Funds may be transferred from the main accounts to the sub-



21
accounts to meet eligible expenditures for a period of 30 days. The sub-accounts are
replenished only if expenditures are justified with their respective main account within one
month of receipt of funds.
Financial and Economic Justification
78.   The main justification for the project is that it will help preserve Palestinian Human
Capital by supporting the sustainability of social services to the Palestinian public at a time
when financing available to the PA's Central Social Service Delivery Ministries has been
reduced due to the severe budgetary crisis. This should help slow further decline in human
development indicators which are difficult to reverse and which could compromise the
country's development prospects for a long time after the crisis has passed. Therefore, while
the project itself is not sustainable, it will support the sustainability of national social delivery
systems, until such time that political conditions will permit resumption of bilateral relations
and fiscal improvements that would attend to them.



22
Schedule/Table: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Timetable:
Sequence                                Tining
Time taken to prepare and process the project  4 months
Identification and preparation mission  July 2002
Appraisal                                October 2002
Negotiations                             November 2002
Board Presentation                       December 2002
Planned Effectiveness                    January 2, 2003
Planned Closing Date                     December 31, 2004
Names of staff/consultants who worked on the project:
Name                  Function
David Steel           Task Team Leader, Lead Operations Officer
Sima W. Kanaan        Co-Task Team Leader, Institutional Development Specialist
Maniza Naqvi          Sr. Operations Officer
Qaiser Khan           Sr. Economist
Celine Gavach         Operations Analyst
Ayman Abu-Haija       Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Hadi Abushakra        Lead Counsel
Thao Le Nguyen        Finance Officer
Samira Hillis         Office Administrator
Suha Rabah            Program Assistant
Claudine Kader        Program Assistant
Salam Kanaan          Operations Analyst, Health and Education Sector
Hisham Labadi         Consultant, Procurement
George Awwad          Consultant, Procurement
Christina Abdel Shafi  Consultant, Social Affairs
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee:
Name                 Function
Jacques Baudouy      Sector Director
Nigel Roberts        Country Director
Nicholas Krafft      WBG Country Program Coordinator
David Steel          Task Team Leader, Lead Operations Officer
Sima W. Kanaan       Co-Task Team Leader, Institutional Development Specialist
Aloysius Ordu        MNA Operations Quality Advisor
Fred Kranz           MNA Procurement Advisor Representative
Hadi Abushakra       Lead Counsel
Thao Le Nguyen       Finance Officer
Alfred Nickesen      OPCS Representative



MAP SECTION






WEST BANK
and
GAZA
*  ,.Yo'bad.~~~~~~~~  -  -J ~~~~~            ±t   AIRPORTS / AIRFIELDS
.obo~o           tI                        V        . 2 MAJOR HIGHWAYS
*F --.-' g                                       w ,& 's ^ \ , ( __ _ TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
'-t X t   ,   f RAILROADS
Tulkarrn  - , , X A o opub '  toi      .t BUILT-UP AREAS
.Tammun       * ,                 UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
A2  -owl.% '- - < Iu                                       ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
-    ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
NOMNSLAND AREAS,
ARMSTCEDEMARCATION LINE, 1949
JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
-  EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDe ERAJBNEA -g                                    llb*O. ~°'- 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Bto                                                   33.;3bCl3 0*  -Or, ^      JORDAN
No~ ~ ~~~~~~ 
_7'+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                            ''     <      Sob3V_:t,,,t/t
IT -
AF               Jericl4o~~~  -1                              I~ AWES
ISRoAESRALL
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                33
Civl lie.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



IMAGING
Report No.: T       7565   GZ
Type:     TAN



