24878
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
-InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 09/19/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: WEST BANK AND GAZA                       Project ID: P078136
Project: GZ-Emergency Services Support 11         Task Team Leader: David J. Steel
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 12, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 19, 2002                  IDA Amount ($m): 20.00 (Special Financing)
Managing Unit: MNSHD                              Sector: Health (30%); Secondary education (25%);
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)  Tertiary education (20%); Other social services
Status: Lending                                  (15%); Central government administration (10%)
Theme: Other social protection and risk management
(P); Education for all (P); Health system
performance (P); Education for the knowledge
economy (P); Public expenditure, financial mngmt
& procurement (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
A.    Background
Closures of most West Bank and Gaza towns and cities under Palestinian Authority since the
beginning of civil strife in West Bank and Gaza in September 2000, along with increased military
presence and actions , have led to significant revenue and infrastructure losses and deterioration of
service delivery for the Palestinian Authority (PA) and the municipalities. A fresh outbreak of violence
beginning on March 29, 2002 has escalated the conflict to unprecedented levels of destruction and has
crippled the capacity of the Palestinian Authority to deliver public services. The World Bank has
estimated that, as of mid-March, the costs of replacing damaged infrastructure would total approximately
US $400 million, and that gross national income losses to date would amount to approximately US$2.8
billion. It is estimated that more than 1300 people have been killed and more than 27,000 wounded
since the latest military actions and incursions began. Several PA ministry buildings have been
damaged or destroyed (including the Ministries of Education and Higher Education), along with records,
office equipment, and communication facilities. Because of security restrictions and curfews, many
people, including PA officials, are confined to their homes for all but a few hours a day.
In the current context everyone in the West Bank and Gaza is vulnerable Poverty is not chronic,
but rather is a direct consequence of chronic and intensifying closures and incursions. World Bank
estimates put poverty in the range of 50% in West Bank Gaza while the Palestinian Bureau of Statistics
estimates that two thirds of Palestinians in WBG live below poverty line of US$340 or 57.8 percent of all
in West Bank and 84.6 percent of everyone in Gaza. Poverty alleviation therefore demands a response



2
ISDS
that goes to the root cause of the poverty experienced in the WBG due to the more recent and the
prolonged closure and military operations. Due to a combination of economic crises at the government
and household level, along with escalated violence and destruction, a humanitarian crisis is looming.
Along with the "traditionally" vulnerable groups, such as female-headed households, the elderly, and
people with disabilities, there has been a large increase in the number of people who, though not
belonging to a vulnerable group, are at risk of malnutrition and health complications because of reduced
household income, lack of mobility, and fallout from violence. Incidences of wartime injuries among the
general population, such as trauma and post-traumatic stress disorder, are on the rise. The severe
increase in unemployment and people in need has also contributed to a sharp increase in the number of
''new poor," heightening the need for larger and more effective aid and employment programs to a wider
group of beneficiaries. Yet lack of funding, mobility restrictions and curfews for government workers
and beneficiaries alike, constrain the possibility of instituting effective government aid programs.
The ongoing conflict has resulted in a near collapse of the Palestinian economy, soaring
unemployment and a sharp increase in poverty. The median family income has dropped by 40 percent
compared to pre 2000 levels, to which the Palestinian population has responded by resorting to coping
mechanisms such as reducing their consumption levels, using personal savings, selling off assets,
delaying payments and incurring debt. These strategies, after 19 months of conflict, are nearly exhausted
and unsustainable.
Many of the coping strategies are not only unsustainable but carry long-term risks in terms of
nutrition, education and depletion of assets by families, particularly the poorest. Consumption of meat
and dairy products has dropped considerably in recent months compared to pre-intifada levels, while
families resort to selling their assets to provide income for immediate consumption. Further shocks to
the Palestinian economy will find a population that has exhausted its capacity to cope and will be largely
dependent on humanitarian assistance with unpredictable political consequences.
The recession in the Palestinian economy has been induced by closures of the Palestinian
territories, which has drastically limited the number of Palestinian workers in Israel. In addition, the flow
of goods into and from the Palestinian territories has been severely interrupted. Economic activity has
also been severely affected by restrictions to movement within the Palestinian territories. In addition to
the negative impact of border closures, Israel's withholding of tax revenues accrued to the PA has
resulted in a sharp drop in government revenues, limiting the PA's ability to function. The level of PA
revenue before the intifada amounted to US$88 million per month, but is has declined to less than US$20
million per month as per December 2001. Total gross revenues withheld by Israel by the end December
2001 amounted to a cumulative US$500 million. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) fell by 6-7
percent in 2001, following a dismal fourth quarter. In 2001, real GDP fell by an additional 12 percent.
In per capita terms, GDP fell by about 10-11 percent in year 2000, and by 16 percent in 2001. Worker
remittances fell by more than 40 percent compared to the low levels of 2000. The number of poor
(defined as those with a consumption of less than US$2 per day) rose from 600,000 in September 2000 to
between 1.2 and 1.5 million by the end of 2001, about x% of the population.
Non-salary operating costs have been severely squeezed: traditional non-emergency operating
expenditures have declined from US$52 million per month in the second quarter of 2000 (Q2/2000) to
US$18 million per month in Q2/2001  A complete disintegration of the economy and a humanitarian
crisis in which more than three million people are subjugated to military closures has been averted by the
massive financial assistance provided by donors as emergency budget support and by coping mechanisms
by the government, such as accumulating arrears to suppliers, occasional loans from domestic banks,
trimming operating budgets, and delaying payments for certain non-salary expenses.



3
ISDS
IDA has responded to other emergencies in the past through programs such as the Second
Emergency Rehabilitation Project in 1996, the Emergency Response Program in 2000, and the
Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP) of February 2002. In light of the new violence and
destruction since March 2002, the PA has additionally asked IDA to develop a project that would help
deliver emergency social, health, and education services in the context of the present situation of
intensified closures and military incursions.
The proposed project would also support a series of conflict-related emergency medical services,
including trauma counseling and medical supplies, and would seek to restore the functioning of health
and education facilities through provision of needed supplies. It would concentrate on delivery of
emergency services that may be delivered in under the current, extremely limited, conditions, using
already-existing government and non-government organizations and facilities to house the services.
Administration would be decentralized to the maximum extent possible, and non-government
organizations (NGOs) would be contracted to deliver services should their capacity and outreach exceed
that of the ministries.
B      Project Development Objective
Primary objective is to provide budgetary support to key social sector ministries for their non
salary recurrent costs to mitigate the deterioration of basic social services and growth in poverty brought
about by ongoing closures and conflict in West Bank and Gaza and prevent further irreversible loss of
human capital; and the secondary objective is to support the ministries particularly in the social sectors,
including education, health, and welfare, to continue business to the greatest extent possible, and to
respond to the newly-arisen emergency needs of the population. The project has a strong development
objective of keeping those institutions responsible for development from collapsing through support to
their non recurrent costs budgets.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed second ESSP would continue to provide budgetary support for non salary recurrent costs
for the same sectoral components as in the first ESSP with the exception of the municipal services
component, which would be covered by a separate municipal funding project. For the preparation of the
first ESSP project the PA established an Inter-Ministerial Committee to work with IDA and other donors
to identify the needs of the various social service delivery ministries and of municipalities. These needs
were grouped by sector and the components of the initial ESSP reflected this grouping.
The project would   include two components  (1) financing of the non salary recurrent
expenditures of the ministries of health, education (and higher education to be merged with MoE), labor
and social affairs and (2)  the management, planning and the operating costs of the project
implementation unit in the Ministry of Finance and the budget units of implementing ministries (health,
education, labor and social assistance).
Component 1: Non Salary Recurrent Expenditures.
Education Services In terms of financing needs items (i) through (iv) are of high priority for the
Ministry of Education:



4
ISDS
(i)Recurrent Expenditure:  This subcomponent would require retro active financing
beginning July 1, 2002 which would finance: (a) rent payments of school buildings; (b)
transportation including fuel, vehicles maintenance, licensing and insurance; (c) water
and electricity utilities for schools, directorates and the Ministry headquarters; (d)
communication including telephones and mail (e)consumables such as cleaning materials
and other perishable items (f)maintenance of equipment and buildings (g)heating fuel and
(h) and other items.
(ii)General Examinations: this subcomponent would finance stationary; printing of
examinations. This is a requirement for the current year of 2002-2003 and may require
retroactive financing through ESSPII if it is not covered in ESSP.
(iii) Support for School Activities : this subcomponent would require retroactive financing
beginning July 1, 2002 and would finance materials required school activities such as sports, arts,
science, home economics and other summer school activities.
(iv) Copy printers for Secondary Schools. This subcomponent would require retroactive
financing beginning July 1, 2002 and would finance 200 copiers for secondary schools.
(v) Supplies for Vocational and Commercial Education Schools: this subcomponent would
require retroactive financing and would finance essential tools and raw materials used on a daily
basis in training students in different vocational and commercial disciplines.
(vi) Voucher SystemThis subcomponent would financeupport to Palestinian Higher
Education institutions. The voucher system to institutions is an effective tool that provides financial
support to institutions of higher education while encouraging the enrolment of students in high priority
fields. This tool is part of the Ministry's financing strategy and entails paying institutions on the basis of
the number of students enrolled in high priority fields of study. The payment will cover the difference
between the normative cost and the current tuition levels of programs identified as national priority areas.
Health Services (US$16.756):
This component would be retroactively financed from July 1, 2002 and would cover six
months of the non-salary recurrent budget of the health ministry and would include the following
essential non-salary needs in Health services:(i)Essential drugs and medical consumXibles
sub-component will finance the procurement of essential drugs, vaccines, laboratory and blood bank
materials and other medical consumables.
(ii) Medical treatment abroad for critical cases : this subcomponent would finance the treatment
of those patients who are in critical condition and their medical needs cannot be taken care of in
West Bank and Gaza hospital facilities.
(iii)Non -medical expenses: This sub-component will finance non medical costs of operating and
maintaining of health facilities including communication, fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent
for health facilities, food, cleaning contracts, cleaning materials, transportation, linen, uniforms
and stationary. It will also finance the repair or replacement of ambulances damaged during the
conflict.
(iv) Psycho-social trauma counseling: This sub-component will finance contracts with NGOs to



5
ISDS
provide community-based and school-based counseling services to promote psycho-social
well-being for conflict-affected population, as well as coordination of such services.  For
example the Palestinian National Plan of Action for Palestinian Children; an umbrella for NGOs,
are dealing with psycho-social issues and could be considered under a subcontract with the MoH
to implement this subcomponent, to ensure successful implementation of these services.
(vi) Nutrition services: This sub-component will finance nutritional monitoring, education and
supplements.
SocialAssistance (US$3.65 million)
Mechanisms to assist the newly poor: These mechanisms would be temporary in nature to
allow families who have lost their income due to the closures and the induced economic crisis, to
partially replace their lost income. New programs would target the vulnerable, both permanent and
temporary, with clear eligibility criteria and monitoring capabilities to determine the level and duration
of assistance. These new programs would consist of: (i) social welfare centers to assist the handicapped,
the elderly and victims of domestic violence, (ii) programs for people with disabilities to integrate them
into society; (iv) school-based feeding programs in poor geographical areas; and (iii) emergency
workfare programs to provide income opportunities for those who have lost their jobs during the conflict
(to be decided on the basis of the findings in July 2002, of an ILO evaluation mission.)
(i) Social welfare shelters : This sub-component will finance goods and services needed to operate
welfare shelters. It would include rent for two child protection centers for six months (the permanent
centers are under construction); construction of three additional rooms for a center for the mentally
disabled and a center for abused women.. The shelters cater to various groups including battered
women, the elderly and infirm, and the handicapped. They are either run directly by MOSA or by
NGOs under contract from the Ministry.
(ii) Training and rehabilitation : This sub-component will finance goods and services for (a)
vocational centers that provide school dropouts with labor market skills, and (b) centers that provide
rehabilitation and reintegration services to dysfunctional youth; the elderly, and the disabled A total
of 14 such centers are run directly by the MOSA or by NGOs under contract.
(iii) Programs for people with disabilities This sub-component would finance outreach programs to
integrate children with disabilities into society and to finance special enrichment programs for
children with learning disabilities. It would also finance wheelchairs, prostheses, and other
equipment needed by people with physical disabilities and, if possible, home care and outreach
services for homebound adults.
Component 2:        Project Management
This component will finance project management and implementation. It would finance the
implementation costs for the second ESSP for the MoH, MoE, MoSa, MoL and MoF. The component
would finance, external audits, replacement of destroyed equipment and supplies in the Ministries of
Health, Education and Social Assistance (especially hard and software - ( Each Ministry's exact
requirement for replacing destroyed equipment will be specified at appraisal)
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites



6
ISDS
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Clteck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project is a second generation project which continues to provide budgetary support
for non-salary recurrent costs for the social services line ministries. This project is an emergency
project in accordance to O.P. 8.50, hence the environmental mitigating measures (if any) will be
carried out during project implementation. Moreover, the project, being a category C, will entail
limited or no civil works.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     0 Yes * No     ) TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        O Yes * No   CQTBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                O Yes * No     Q TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  O Yes * No    C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes 0 No    0 TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        O Yes * No     ) TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No     3 TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                  0 Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*            0 Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          C Yes 0 No    C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
See section on Environment.



7
ISDS
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
A Rapid Assessment was carried out in collaboration with government, civil society and donors for the
first ESSP project. This assessment took place less than six months ago and therefore its results are still
valid. Furthermore, the poor and marginalized will have the opportunity to participate in the design and
delivery of projects, and services will be tailored to their needs. A demand-driven component whereby
community-based organizations may apply for funding for social services will further promote
community input into project activities. Services run by NGOs will be required to promote community
involvement in planning and monitoring, and local communication campaigns will help to stimulate
community demand and interest in services.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable



8
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             David J. Steel                              09/18/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Hocine Chalal                          09/19/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Mohamed Ben-Achour                     09/19/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                     09/19/02
Sector Manager/Director:      Jacques F. Baudouy                          09/19/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
,SEARCH    _    FEE_AC        SITE MAPI     5HOCA5E 



