Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
TF052044 
 
DFID Grant Agreement
 
(Relating to the Second Emergency Services Support Project 
in the West Bank and Gaza) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Grant provided by The Government of the United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, through its Department for 
International Development) 
 
Dated November 24, 2003 
 
Page  2
DFID GRANT NUMBER TF052044 
 
DFID GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated November 24, 2003, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the “Administrator”) of a 
grant (the “DfID Grant”) provided by THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED 
KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, THROUGH ITS 
DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (the “Donor”), and 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian 
Authority) (the “Recipient”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement dated December 31, 2002, between the 
Administrator and the Recipient (the “Trust Fund Grant Agreement” or “TFGA”), the 
Administrator has agreed to provide the Recipient with a trust fund grant in an amount 
equivalent to twenty-five million United States dollars (US$25,000,000) to assist in 
financing the carrying out, in parts of the West Bank (the West Bank) and the Gaza Strip 
(Gaza) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, of the Second 
Emergency Services Support Project described in Schedule 2 to the TFGA; 
 
(B) 
the Donor, has agreed, under a memorandum of understanding with the 
Administrator, dated March 29, 2003, (“MOU”), to provide the DfID Grant in an amount 
equivalent to one million nine hundred sixty thousand Pounds Sterling (£1,960,000) to 
assist in financing the activities described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the “ Project”) 
which are deemed by the Recipient, the Palestinian Authority and the Administrator to 
complement the objectives of the Project described in Schedule 2 of the TFGA; 
 
(C) 
the Donor and the Administrator have agreed, under the MOU, that the 
responsibility for administration of utilization of the proceeds of the DfID Grant shall be 
vested in the Administrator; and 
 
(D) 
the Administrator undertook under the MOU to carry out the procedures 
and conclude the agreements required to implement the MOU, and to achieve the 
objectives of the DfID Grant. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The General Conditions, as amended, referred to and modified in 
Schedule 7 to the TFGA (the “General Conditions”) shall apply 
mutatis mutandis
 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFGA, the General Conditions 
referred to in the preceding Section and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth, and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the account 
maintained by the Administrator, in which the amount of the DfID Grant is deposited, and 
(b) the term "Grant Special Account" means the account to be opened by Palestinian 
Authority, on behalf of the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The DfID Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the 
DfID Grant in an amount equivalent to one million nine hundred sixty thousand Pounds 
Sterling (£1,960,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the DfID Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of salary payments approved for financing from the proceeds of the DfID 
Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of the DfID Grant, open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, salary payments to 
be financed from the proceeds of the DfID Grant shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2004 or such later date as 
shall be determined by the Administrator in agreement with the Donor. The Administrator 
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the DfID Grant (including 
deposits into the Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate 
to meet such disbursement shall have been transferred from the Donor to the Administrator. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III and IV of, 
and Schedule 4 to, the TFGA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same 
force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose, all references in said 
Articles and Schedule to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed to be references to the 
International Development Association as Administrator of the DfID Grant; (b) the "Grant" 
and "Grant Account" shall be deemed to be references to the DfID Grant and the DfID 
Grant Account; and (c) the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be references to the 
Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the entire amount of the DfID Grant shall be allocated for salary payments 
required for the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to ensure that 
disbursement on account of  salary payments to be financed from the proceeds of the DfID 
Grant, shall be made in the following manner: The Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian 
Authority  shall, on behalf of the Recipient, keep the statement signed by each university 
teaching staff confirming their date and period of appointment, ID number, bank account 
detail, position and monthly salary, and receipt of the salary from the university. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature thereof by the 
parties hereto and shall continue in effect until termination of the MOU or until the DfID 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.02. In accordance with the MOU, the rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice from one party to 
the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Recipient to that effect, the Donor shall, 
ipso facto
,
from the date specified in such notice, 
be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if 
the Donor had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further action or 
formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall 
cease to have any rights or obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Representatives 
 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
 
Beirut Street, Rimal 
 
Gaza City, Gaza  
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
 
 
Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
  MCI 248423 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  MCI 64145 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
(for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority)  
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
(as Administrator of the Grant provided 
by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, through its Department for International 
Development) 
 
By /s/ Nigel Roberts 
Country Director 
West Bank and Gaza 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the DfID Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category to be financed out of the proceeds of the DfID 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the DfID Grant to such Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
DfID Grant Allocated                  % of Eligible 
 
(Expressed in   
 
 Expenditures 
 Category
Pounds Sterling
)
to be Financed
(1) Salaries of university 
 
 
1,960,000 
 
 
 
100% 
teaching staff 
 
__________ 
TOTAL
 
1,960,000
=========
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed one million two hundred thousand Dollars ($1,200,000) equivalent, 
may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made before that date but 
after March 29, 2003. 
 
3. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for salary payments costing less than the equivalent 
of $50,000 under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. 
 
4. 
It is understood that the percentage of expenditures to be financed under the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule has been calculated on the basis of an undertaking 
by the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority to exclude taxes from the sum total 
of any and all amounts requested to be withdrawn from the Grant Account for the purpose 
of financing salary payments under the Project.  It is further understood that the levying of 
taxes on salary payments financed under the Project shall lead to the decrease of the 
percentages referred to above in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide salary payments to teaching staff at the 
below mentioned universities in the West Bank and Gaza. 
 
1. 
Al Najah University; 
2. 
Al Azhar University; 
3. Islamic 
University; 
4. Al-Quds 
University; 
5. 
Bir Zait University; 
6. 
Palestinian Polytechnic University; 
7. Hebron 
University; 
8. 
Beit Lehem University; and 
9. 
Al-Quds Open University. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Category" means Category (1), set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one 
million Dollars (US$1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, 
the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
Page  10
-
9
-
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or 
 
(b) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Page  11
-
10
-
Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
 
