Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
TF 050957 
 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement  
 
(Second Emergency Services Support Project) 
 
between 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
(for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank) 
 
Dated December 31, 2002 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
TF 050957 
 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 31, 2002, between the PALESTINE 
LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority) (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as 
administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, 
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended 
by Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3 and Resolution No. 96-11 and IDA 96-7 and 
further amended by Resolution No. 99-3 and IDA 99-2, of the Executive Directors of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International 
Development Association (the Trust Fund). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association has 
resolved, on July 29, 1999, to, inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of 
sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), such amount to be transferred from the surplus of 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to be used for 
financing rehabilitation projects in parts of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank 
(the West Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(B) 
the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Government of the 
State of Israel have entered, on September 28, 1995, into an agreement which, inter 
alia, sets out certain interim self-government arrangements in Gaza and the West 
Bank (the Interim Agreement); 
 
(C) 
Section 5 (b) of Article IX of the Interim Agreement authorizes the 
Palestine Liberation Organization to conduct negotiations and, in certain cases 
described thereunder, sign agreements with states and international organizations for 
the benefit of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(D) 
the Palestinian Authority, on behalf of the Recipient, has requested 
the Administrator to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing to extend the Grant to the Palestine Liberation Organization, for the benefit 
of the Palestinian Authority, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions” set forth in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“MOEHE” means the Ministry of Education and Higher Education of 
the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(c) 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(d) 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Palestinian Authority; 
 
(e) 
“MOSA” means the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Palestinian 
Authority; 
 
(f) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; each a “Special Account”; and 
 
(g) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall 
include all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b) 
The Recipient may, for purposes of each of Parts A, B, C, D and E 
the Project, open and maintain in dollars four (4) special deposit accounts in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payment out of, a Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later 
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Palestinian Authority with due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, educational, and financial 
practices and shall cause the Palestinian Authority to provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant available to the 
Palestinian Authority under a Subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and the Palestinian Authority under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Administrator. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all of the obligations of 
the Palestinian Authority therein set forth; (ii) to take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
(e) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient, the Palestinian 
Authority and the Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, 
except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  6
-
4
-
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 8.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, 
and furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Palestinian Authority 
and the Administrator, a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Palestinian Authority on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority to 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority: (i) to have the 
records, accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish to the 
Administrator, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Administrator shall from time 
to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall cause the Palestinian Authority to: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Administrator 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Administrator’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
Page  7
-
5
-
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall cause the Palestinian Authority to prepare and furnish to the Administrator a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, 
which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Grant and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar 
quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the 
first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Administrator 
not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall 
cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Recipient and Palestinian Authority. 
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 11.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely that the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Recipient and the Palestinian Authority and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient and the Palestinian Authority in accordance with its terms. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Palestinian Authority is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
c/o Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority 
 
Beirut Street, Rimal, 
 
Gaza City, Gaza 
 
P.O. Box 400 
 
Facsimile: 
 
072825255 
 
For the Administrator: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI); 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Gaza, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION 
 
for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority 
 
By /s/ Salam Fayyad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
As Administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank 
 
By /s/ Nigel Roberts 
 
Acting Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1
.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
   % of Eligible 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 
 Expenditures 
 Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
 
(a) under Part A  
1,465,000 
 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(b)  under Parts B.1,  
9,300,000 
 
100% 
 
B.2 and B.3 of 
 
the Project 
 
(c) under Part C 
515,000 
 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(d)  under Parts D 
200,000 
 
100% 
 
and E of the 
 
Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ and 
other services 
 
(a)  under Parts B.1,  
1,800,000 
 
100% 
 
B.2 and B.3 of 
 
the Project 
 
(b)  under Parts D 
250,000 
 
100% 
and E of the 
 
Project 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
   % of Eligible 
 
(Expressed in 
 
 
 Expenditures 
 Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(3) Incremental 
Operating 
 Costs 
 
(a)  under Part A  
7,085,000 
 
100% of  
 
expenditures  
 
incurred until 
 
of the Project 
 
 
December 31, 
 
2003, and 75%  
 
thereafter 
 
(b)  under Parts B.1,  
1,850,000 
 
100% of  
 
B.2 and B.3 of 
 
 
expenditures 
incurred until 
 
December 31,  
 
the Project 
 
 
2003, and 75%  
 
thereafter 
 
(c)  under Part C  
435,000 
 
100% of   
 
of the Project 
 
 
expenditures  
 
incurred until 
 
December 31,  
 
2003, and 75%  
 
thereafter 
 
(d)  under Parts D  
950,000 
 
100% of 
 
and E of the 
 
 
expenditures 
 Project 
 
  incurred 
until 
 
December 31, 
 
2003, and 75%  
 
thereafter 
 
(4) 
Food under Part B.4 
 
500,000 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(5) Small 
works 
under 
  50,000 
100% 
 
Part C of the Project 
 
(6) Unallocated 
 600,000 
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
25,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” 
means expenditures incurred by the Palestinian Authority on account of utility 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
charges, maintenance, banking charges, communication charges, translation charges, 
audit costs, advertisement costs relating solely to the procurement process under the 
Project, domestic travel costs (including transport and per diem), labor costs, vehicle 
insurance, hospital hazard insurance, office rent, school rent, health facility rent and 
rent of facilities for MOEHE, MOH, MOSA, MOF and other ministries of the 
Palestinian Authority. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 
equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c), (1) (d), (2) (a), 
(2) (b), (3) (a), (3) (b), (3) (c), (3) (d), (4) and (5) on account of payments made before 
that date but after September 1, 2002. 
 
4. 
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) contracts for goods, including 
food under Part B.4 of the Project, costing less than the equivalent of $500,000; 
(ii) contracts for works; (iii) contracts costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 for 
services of consulting firms; (iv) contracts costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 
for services of individual consultants; (v) contracts for the delivery of medical services 
under Part B.2 of the Project; and (vi) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of an 
undertaking by the Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority to exclude taxes 
and custom duties from the sum total of any and all amounts requested to be withdrawn 
from the Grant Account for the purpose of financing goods, works and services under 
the Project. It is further understood that the levying of taxes and/or customs duties on 
goods, works and services financed under the Project shall lead to the decrease of the 
percentages referred to above in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to mitigate the deterioration of basic social 
services brought about by the conflict situation currently prevailing in the parts of the 
West Bank and Gaza under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority, and its 
negative impact on economic activity and revenue generation. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Education Services
Support to MOEHE through the provision of goods, including stationary 
related to school examinations, and the maintenance of MOEHE’s buildings and 
equipment. 
 
Part B
:
Health Services
1. 
Provision of materials, medical consumables and essential drugs from among 
those featured in the list of drugs approved by MOH. 
 
2. 
Carrying out, through the provision of goods and services, a program aimed 
at providing the public with health care services not offered by the facilities of MOH. 
 
3. 
Carrying out, through the provision of milk formulas and iron and 
micronutrient supplements, a program aimed at assisting public clinics in overcoming 
malnutrition among children aged five (5) years and younger, lactating women and 
women of child-bearing age. 
 
4. 
Provision of food for hospital patients. 
 
Part C
:
Social Welfare Services
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, including vehicles, and the 
execution of small works, of a program to operate and maintain social welfare 
shelters, and training, vocational and rehabilitation centers. 
 
Part D
:
Key Ministries of the Palestinian Authority
Support to key ministries of the Palestinian Authority, through the provision 
of goods and services, and the maintenance of said ministries buildings and 
equipment.  
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
Part E
:
Project Management and Monitoring
Support to MOF, throu
gh the provision of goods and consultants’ services, in 
the preparation of financial audits, and to MOEHE, MOF, MOH and MOSA in the 
management of the Project and the monitoring of its implementation. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004. 
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” 
published by the Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
Goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B shall be subject to the following provision, 
namely, that the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the West Bank or Gaza. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Administrator. Said procedures shall ensure, inter alia, 
that: (i) tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in a local 
newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of 
thirty (30) days between the date upon which the notification appears in the newspaper 
for the first time and the date upon which the bid is submitted; (iii) the format of the 
bidding documents shall be consistent with that of the Administrator’s standard bidding 
documents, or with the format of bidding documents used by United Nations Agencies 
operating in the West Bank and Gaza; (iv) interested foreign contractors and suppliers 
shall be allowed to bid; (v) bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be 
accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; (vi) all bids shall be opened at the same time 
in public; (vii) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) no 
bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid after the bid closing 
date shall have elapsed; (ix) price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
limited to cases provided for under the Guidelines; and (x) postqualification criteria 
shall, in the absence of a prequalification process, be explicitly stated in the bidding 
documents. 
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
2. International 
and 
National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and not to 
exceed $4,000,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which are
 of a proprietary nature may, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works 
Small works under Part C of the Project, including incidental materials and 
tools required therefor, shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, 
a
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) all contracts for goods procured under the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B of Section I of this Schedule; (ii) each of the first 
three (3) contracts for goods, under each of Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, 
procured under the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part C of Section I of this Schedule; 
and (iii) the first three (3) contract for works. 
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
(b) 
The following procedures shall apply with respect to all contracts for 
goods procured under the provisions of paragraph 3 of Part C of Section I of this 
Schedule: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under direct contracting, 
the Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall provide 
to the Administrator a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, 
shall provide to the Administrator a copy of the specifications 
and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients,” published by the Administrator in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
Part C
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to the equivalent of $500,000 in the aggregate, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services relating to the evaluation of financial proposals in connection with 
auditing, engineering and cleaning service contracts, to be awarded under the 
provisions of Part B of Section II of this Schedule, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultants Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by medical personnel under Part B.2 of the Project 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Single Source Selection
In exceptional cases where narrow specialization and availability of providers 
shall not offer alternatives, services may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.   
 
Part D
:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to 
the Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  19
-
17 - 
 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the contract for the 
provision of a consulting firm to perform audit services, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 or more; and (ii) each contract with an 
individual consultant procured under the provisions of paragraph C.5 of Section II of 
this Schedule, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Administrator for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall 
have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause MOF to have 
the overall responsibility for the coordination of the implementation of the Project. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall cause responsibility for 
implementation of: (a) Part A of the Project to be vested in MOEHE; (b) Part B of the 
Project to be vested in MOH; (c) Part C of the Project to be vested in MOSA; and (d) 
Parts D and E of the Project to be vested in MOF. The Recipient, through the 
Palestinian Authority, shall cause MOF to be assisted in the carrying out of its 
functions by the Project coordination unit established under the trust fund credit 
agreement dated March 1, 2002, between the Recipient and the Administrator for the 
Emergency Support Services Project (TF050473), such unit to be maintained by the 
Recipient until completion of the Project. Furthermore, the Recipient, through the 
Palestinian Authority, shall maintain an inter-ministerial committee, consisting of 
representatives of MOF, MOEHE, MOH and MOSA, whose objective shall be to 
monitor the implementation of the Project and liaise with the donor community with 
respect thereto. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through the Palestinian Authority, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set out in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator, 
and furnish to the Administrator, commencing February 1, 2003, until completion of 
the Project, quarterly progress reports and summary monthly progress statements, 
acceptable to the Administrator, covering the implementation of the Project during 
the preceding period, each such report and statement to include, inter alia, a detailed 
break-down of expenditures incurred under the Project during the preceding period; 
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, 
and furnish to the Administrator, on or about August 15, 2003, a mid-term report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Administrator, by September 15, 2003, or such later 
date as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (c) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and agreed recommendations of the Recipient and the Administrator, and 
their views on the matter. 
Page  21
-
19 - 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Palestinian Authority, not later than March 31, 
2003, to employ the independent auditors referred to under Section 4.01 (b)(i) of this 
Agreement under terms of reference acceptable to the Administrator including, inter 
alia, the obligation to carry out spot-check audits in order to ascertain the 
achievement of physical and other progress in the implementation of the Project. 
Page  22
-
20 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (1) (c), 
(1) (d), (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) (a), (3) (b), (3) (c), (3) (d), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,700,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, an amount 
equivalent to $2,700,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, 
an amount equivalent to $100,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part C of the 
Project and an amount equivalent to $130,000 in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts D and E of the Project, to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
Page  23
-
21 - 
 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for said Special 
Account. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Page  24
-
22 - 
 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator 
may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  25
-
23 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
1. 
Availability of furniture, and requisite equipment and supplies at public 
schools. 
 
2. 
Continued provision of basic services in the health sector. 
 
3. 
Continued provision of services at rehabilitation centers and social shelters 
operated by MOSA; 
 
4. 
Continued operation of line ministries of the Palestinian Authority. 
 
Page  26
-
24 - 
 
SCHEDULE 7 
 
General Conditions 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Application to Trust Fund Grant Agreements
 
Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally 
applicable to this Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Inconsistency with Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
If any provision of this Trust Fund Grant Agreement is inconsistent with a 
provision of these General Conditions, the provision of this Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement shall govern. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Definitions; Headings
 
Section 2.01. 
Definitions 
 
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these 
General Conditions: 
 
1. 
“Administrator” means the International Development Association, in its 
capacity as administrator of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank. 
 
2. 
“Bank” means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
 
3.  
“Recipient” means the Palestine Liberation Organization (for the benefit of 
the Palestinian Authority). 
 
4.  
“Grant” means the trust fund grant provided for in the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. 
 
5.  
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited. 
 
6.  
“Closing Date” means the date specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account. 
 
7.  
“Trust Fund Grant Agreement” means the particular trust fund grant 
agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement may be 
Page  27
-
25 - 
 
amended from time to time. Trust Fund Grant Agreement includes these General 
Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
8.  
“Dollars” and the sign “$” mean dollars in the currency of the United States 
of America. 
 
9.  
“Effective Date” means the date on which the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
shall enter into effect as provided in Section 11.03 of these General Conditions. 
 
10.  
“Project” means the project or program for which the Grant is granted, as 
described in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and as the description thereof may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Administrator. 
 
11.  
“Taxes” includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in 
effect at the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or thereafter imposed. 
 
Section 2.02. 
References 
 
References in these General Conditions to Articles or Sections are to Articles 
or Sections of these General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03. 
Headings 
 
The headings of the Articles and Sections and the Table of Contents are 
inserted for convenience of reference only and are not a part of these General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Grant Account
 
Section 3.01. 
Grant Account 
 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.  
 
Page  28
-
26 - 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Currency Provisions 
 
Section 4.01. 
Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made 
 
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in 
which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid 
or are payable.  
 
Section 4.02. 
Valuation of Currencies 
 
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, or any other agreement to which these General Conditions apply, to 
determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as 
reasonably determined by the Administrator. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Withdrawal of Proceeds of Grant
 
Section 5.01. 
Withdrawal from the Grant Account 
 
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and of 
these General Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Special Commitment by the Administrator 
 
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may 
enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or 
the Recipient. 
 
Page  29
-
27 - 
 
Section 5.03. 
Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment 
 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant 
Account or to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of these General Conditions, the Recipient shall deliver to the 
Administrator a written application in such form, and containing such statements and 
agreements, as the Administrator shall reasonably request. Applications for 
withdrawal, including the documentation required pursuant to this Article, shall be 
made promptly in relation to expenditures for the Project. 
 
Section 5.04. 
Reallocation 
 
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages 
for withdrawal set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, if the 
Administrator has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to 
any withdrawal category set forth in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or added 
thereto by amendment will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all 
expenditures in that category, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient: 
 
(a)  
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the 
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another 
category and which, in the opinion of the Administrator, are not needed to meet other 
expenditures; and  
 
(b)  
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures 
thereunder shall have been made. 
 
Section 5.05. 
Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal 
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person. 
 
Section 5.06. 
Supporting Evidence 
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application. 
 
Section 5.07. 
Sufficiency of Applications and Documents 
 
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must 
be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the 
Page  30
-
28 - 
 
amount to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes 
specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Recipient on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any 
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or increases, the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the percentage for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator. 
 
Section 5.09. 
Payment by the Administrator 
 
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from 
the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 6.01. 
Cancellation by the Recipient 
 
The Recipient may, by notice to the Administrator, cancel any amount of the 
Grant which the Recipient shall not have withdrawn, except that the Recipient may 
not so cancel any amount of the Grant in respect of which the Administrator shall 
have entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02. 
 
Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Administrator 
 
If any of the following events shall have occurred and be continuing, the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account: 
 
(a)  
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding 
the fact that such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, 
service charges or any other amount due to the Administrator or the Bank: (i) under 
any trust fund credit agreement between the Recipient, or any agency thereof, and the 
Administrator, or (ii) under any loan or guarantee agreement between the Recipient, 
or any agency thereof, and the Bank, or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other 
financial obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the 
agreement of the Recipient. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under 
the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
Page  31
-
29 - 
 
(c) (i)   The Administrator or the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient or any agency thereof to make withdrawals under any 
trust fund credit agreement with the Administrator or any loan agreement with the 
Bank because of a failure by the Recipient or any other agency thereof, as the case 
may be, to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; or (ii) the Bank shall 
have suspended in whole or in part the right of any borrower to make withdrawals 
under a loan agreement with the Bank guaranteed by the Recipient because of a 
failure by such borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement. 
 
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to 
perform its obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
(e) 
After the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and prior to the 
Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have entitled the 
Administrator to suspend the Recipient’s right to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been effective on the date such event 
occurred. 
 
(f) 
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and 
intended to be relied upon by the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been 
incorrect in any material respect. 
 
(g) 
The Recipient or any Project implementation entity shall, without the 
consent of the Administrator, have (i) assigned or transferred, in whole or in part, any 
of its obligations arising under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement; or (ii) sold, leased, 
transferred, assigned, or otherwise disposed of any property or assets financed wholly 
or in part out of the proceeds of the Grant, except with respect to transactions in the 
ordinary course of business which, in the opinion of the Administrator, (A) do not 
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the 
Project, or the ability of the Project implementation entity to perform any of its 
obligations arising under, or entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, or to achieve the objectives of the Project; and (B) do not materially and 
adversely affect the financial condition or operation of the Project implementation 
entity. 
 
(h) 
Any Project implementation entity shall have ceased to exist in the 
same legal form as that prevailing as of the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
(i) 
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment 
or suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity. 
 
(j) 
In the opinion of the Administrator, the legal character, ownership or 
control of any Project implementation entity shall have changed from that prevailing 
as of the date of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement so as to materially and adversely 
Page  32
-
30 - 
 
affect (i) the ability of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement or to achieve the objectives of the Project; or (ii) the ability of 
the Project implementation entity to perform any of its obligations arising under, or 
entered into pursuant to, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, or to achieve the 
objectives of the Project. 
 
(k) 
Any other event specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the 
purposes of this Section shall have occurred. 
 
The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall 
continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the event or 
events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the 
Administrator shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has 
been restored in whole or in part, as the case may be. 
 
Section 6.03. 
Cancellation by the Administrator 
 
If (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (e) after the Closing 
Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant Account, the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Grant shall be cancelled. 
 
Page  33
-
31 - 
 
Section 6.04. 
Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by 
Cancellation or Suspension by the Administrator 
 
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of these General Conditions except as expressly provided in such 
commitment. 
 
Section 6.05. 
Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation 
 
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as 
specifically provided in this Article. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Taxes 
 
Section 7.01. 
Taxes 
 
The Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and any other agreement to which these 
General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof. 
ARTICLE VIII 
 
Cooperation and Information; Financial and 
Economic Data; Project Implementation 
 
Section 8.01. 
Cooperation and Information 
 
(a) 
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure 
that the purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and 
the Administrator shall: 
 
(i) 
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, 
exchange views with regard to the progress of the Project, 
the purposes of the Grant, and the performance of their 
respective obligations under the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement; and furnish to the other party all such 
information related thereto as it shall reasonably request; and 
 
(ii) 
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes 
with, or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in 
paragraph (i) above. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Administrator to visit any site for purposes related to the Grant. 
 
Page  34
-
32 - 
 
Section 8.02. 
Financial and Economic Data 
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator all such information as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request with respect to the financial and economic 
conditions of the Palestinian Authority including its balance of payments and its 
external debt as well as that of its political or administrative subdivisions and any 
entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of the Recipient 
or the Palestinian Authority, or any such subdivision, and any institution performing 
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, in 
the West Bank and Gaza. 
 
Section 8.03. 
Insurance 
 
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods. 
 
Section 8.04. 
Use of Goods and Services 
 
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause 
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project. 
 
Section 8.05. 
Plans and Schedules 
 
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator, 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents 
and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 8.06. 
Records and Reports 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Administrator's 
representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites included in the Project and 
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and any plants, 
installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents 
relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient under the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all such 
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its 
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the 
proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds. 
 
Page  35
-
33 - 
 
(b) 
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, 
the name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the 
contract price. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later 
than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under the Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant. 
 
Section 8.07. 
Maintenance 
 
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and, promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof. 
 
Section 8.08. 
Land Acquisition 
 
The Recipient shall take, or cause to be taken, all such action as shall be 
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as 
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, 
promptly upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land 
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project. 
 
ARTICLE IX 
 
Enforceability of Trust Fund Grant Agreement; 
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
 
Section 9.01. 
Enforceability
 
The rights and obligations of the Recipient and the Administrator under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their 
terms. 
 
Section 9.02. 
Failure to Exercise Rights 
 
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy 
accruing to either party under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement upon any default shall 
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an 
acquiescence in such default. No action of such party in respect of any default, or any 
acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any right, power or remedy of 
such party in respect of any other or subsequent default. 
 
Page  36
-
34 - 
 
Section 9.03. 
Arbitration 
 
(a) 
Any controversy between the parties to the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and any claim by either such party against the other arising under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement which has not been settled by agreement of the parties 
shall be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided. 
 
(b) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Administrator and the 
Recipient. 
 
(c) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Administrator; a second arbitrator 
shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes 
called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not 
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by 
said President, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either of the parties 
shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In 
case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or 
become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as 
herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and such successor 
shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator. 
 
(d) 
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon 
notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall 
contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be 
submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the arbitrator 
appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such 
notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the proceeding the name of 
the arbitrator appointed by such other party. 
 
(e) 
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, either party may 
request the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section. 
 
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be 
fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and 
when it shall sit. 
 
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall be by majority vote. 
 
(h) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award 
signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such 
Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any 
such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall be final 
Page  37
-
35 - 
 
and binding upon the parties to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. Each party shall 
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section. 
 
(i) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators 
and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration 
proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal 
shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable 
under the circumstances. Each party shall defray its own expenses in the arbitration 
proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne 
equally by the parties. Any question concerning the division of the costs of the 
Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such costs shall be determined by 
the Arbitral Tribunal. 
 
(j) 
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement or of any claims by either party against the other party 
arising thereunder. 
 
(k) 
The Administrator shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the 
Recipient upon the award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or 
to pursue any other remedy against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, 
except as such procedure may be available against the Recipient otherwise than by 
reason of the provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of the 
award shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with 
by the Administrator, the Recipient may take any such action for the enforcement of 
the award against the Administrator. 
 
(l) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding 
under this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award 
rendered pursuant to this Section may be made in the manner provided in Section 
10.01 of these General Conditions. The parties to the Trust Grant Agreement waive 
any and all other requirements for the service of any such notice or process.  
 
Page  38
-
36 - 
 
ARTICLE X 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
Section 10.01. 
Notices and Requests 
 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement and any other agreement between the parties 
contemplated by the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall be in writing. Except as 
otherwise provided in Section 11.03 of these General Conditions, such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered 
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address specified in the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. 
 
Section 10.02. 
Evidence of Authority 
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
 
Section 10.03. 
Action on Behalf of the Recipient 
 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement on behalf of the 
Recipient may be taken or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated 
in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person 
thereunto authorized in writing by such representative. Any modification or 
amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement may be agreed to 
on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf of the Recipient 
by the representative so designated or any person thereunto authorized in writing by 
such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such representative, such 
modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or 
other person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and 
will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder. 
 
Page  39
-
37 - 
 
Section 10.04. 
Execution in Counterparts 
 
The Trust Fund Grant Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, 
each of which shall be an original. 
 
ARTICLE XI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 11.01.
 Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement 
 
The Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Administrator shall have been furnished to the Administrator that: 
 
(a) 
the execution and delivery of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement on 
behalf of the Recipient have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action; and 
 
(b) 
all other events specified in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement as 
conditions to its effectiveness have occurred. 
 
Section 11.02. 
Legal Opinions or Certificates 
 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 11.01 of these 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Administrator of counsel acceptable to the Administrator 
or, if the Administrator so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the Administrator of a 
competent official of the Recipient, showing: 
 
(a) 
that the Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally 
binding upon the Recipient in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
such other matters as shall be specified in the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement or as shall be reasonably requested by the Administrator in connection 
therewith. 
 
Section 11.03. 
Effective Date 
 
(a) 
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall enter into effect on the date on which the 
Administrator dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 11.01 of these General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which 
would have entitled the Administrator to suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account if the Trust Fund Grant Agreement had been 
Page  40
-
38 - 
 
effective, the Administrator may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section until such event or events shall have ceased to exist. 
 
Section 11.04. 
Termination of Trust Fund Grant Agreement for Failure to 
Become Effective 
 
If the Trust Fund Grant Agreement shall not have entered into effect by the 
date specified therein for the purposes of this Section, the Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Administrator, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later 
date for the purposes of this Section. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date. 
Page  41
-
39
-
