Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF 
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND AND 
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
FOR  
Re: West Bank and Gaza: Second Emergency Services Support Project  
(TF052044) 
 
Following a request for assistance from the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and International Development Association (the “Bank”) I am pleased to 
inform you that the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland (the “Government”), acting through the Department for International Development 
(the “DFID”), will make available to the Bank, from Technical Cooperation Funds (“TCF”) a 
sum not exceeding two million pounds sterling (£2,000,000) (the “Contribution”) to assist in 
financing the Second Emergency Services Support Project in West Bank and Gaza (the 
“Project”) as set out in the Project Appraisal Document, and its associated Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement (the “Project Legal Agreements”). 
 
2.  The Project will be implemented as from March 31, 2003 for a duration not exceeding 
two years. 
 
3.  The Contribution will be administered by the Bank and will be subject to the following 
provisions: 
 
(a) the Contribution will be applied by the Bank for the provision of goods, works and 
incremental operating costs as specified in Project Legal Agreements. The Bank will make 
every effort to ensure timely and full implementation of the Project; and 
 
(b)  the Contribution will not be used to meet the cost of import or customs duties (or 
any similar fees) imposed by the Government of
 
Israel or the Palestinian Authority
 
on
the 
goods imported or services provided. 
 
4. As soon as this Memorandum of Understanding (the "Memorandum") comes into 
operation, the DFID will deposit the entire Contribution amount of two million pounds 
sterling (£2,000,000) into the Bank’s IBRD Cash Account “T” Account Number: 39729123; 
SWIFT BIC Code: MIDLGB22; Internal Route Code: MIDLGB maintained with the  HSBC 
Bank PLC, International Division, P.O. Box 181, 27-32 Poultry, London EC2P 2BX, United 
Kingdom.  
 
5.  When making payment, the DFID shall instruct HSBC Bank PLC, International Division, 
to advise the Bank’s Treasury Operations Department by SWIFT (IBRDUS33), Telex (MCI 
Page  2
248423) or fax (202-522-1564) as to the amount received, that it is from the Donor for 
Second Emergency Services Support Project in West Bank and Gaza (trust fund number 
TF052044), and the date of the deposit. In addition, DFID will also arrange to fax a copy of 
its deposit instruction to the Bank’s Trust Funds Division utilizing its facsimile number: (202) 
477-7163.  
 
6.  The Bank will ensure that, prior to disbursing the proceeds of the Contribution in 
accordance with the provisions of this Memorandum, said proceeds will be kept in an account 
(the Account) separate from any other funds of the Bank.  The funds in the Account may be 
freely exchanged by the Bank into other currencies as may facilitate their disbursement.    
 
7.  In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and other expenses 
incurred by the Bank under this Memorandum, the Bank will deduct from the principal, upon 
deposit of the funds, an amount equivalent to two percent (2%) of the Contribution. Any 
income earned from the investment or reinvestment of the Contribution’s proceeds or interest 
earned or unspent funds in respect of the Account, will be returned to the Government.  
 
8. The Bank will administer and account for the Contribution in accordance with its 
financial regulations and other applicable rules, procedures and practices, and keep separate 
records and accounts in respect of the Contribution proceeds and disbursement thereof. 
Within ninety (90) days of each March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31, for as 
long as any Contribution proceeds remain in the Account, the Bank will prepare an un-
audited statement of receipts, disbursements and fund balance with respect to the 
Contribution proceeds and forward a copy to DFID. In addition, the Bank will provide DFID 
annually with a management assertion together with an attestation from the Bank’s external 
auditors concerning the adequacy of internal control over cash-based financial reporting for 
trust funds as a whole.  The cost of such attestations shall be borne by the Bank
.
9.  The Bank will, upon completion of the Project, submit to the DFID a terminal un-audited 
statement of receipts, disbursements and fund balance for the Project. 
 
10. DFID will not be responsible for the activities of any person or third-party engaged by 
the Bank as a result of this Memorandum, nor will DFID be liable for any costs incurred by 
the Bank in terminating the engagement of any such person. 
 
11. This Memorandum will come into operation on signature and will continue in operation 
until March 31, 2005 unless terminated by either party giving three (3) months’ prior written 
notice to the other party. If any changes occur which, in the opinion of DFID, impair 
significantly the developmental value of the Project, the DFID and the Bank will normally 
consult on measures to resolve the problem, and agree on possible courses of action.  In the 
event that such problems cannot be resolved, the DFID may modify or terminate its 
Contribution to the Project. Upon such termination, and unless otherwise decided by the 
participants hereto: 
 
(a) any arrangement entered into, or in the irreversible process of preparation, 
between the Bank and any third party participants will not be affected by the termination 
and the Bank may continue, for a period not exceeding 6 (six) months, withdrawals from 
Page  3
the Account in respect of such arrangements as if this Memorandum had not been 
terminated; and 
 
(b) any balance of the Contribution remaining in the Account will be returned to the 
Government, and the Bank’s functions pursuant hereto will be considered terminated. 
Promptly after termination, the Bank will submit to DFID a terminal financial and 
progress report detailing receipts into and expenditure from the Account. 
 
12.  The Bank may disclose this Memorandum and information with respect to this trust fund 
in accordance with the Bank’s policy on disclosure of information. 
 
13. I am pleased to inform you that the above correctly sets out the understanding of my 
Government in this matter, and to request your confirmation that it equally represents the 
understanding of the Bank. The arrangements set out in this Memorandum will come into 
operation on the date of your reply to that effect.  
 
FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
Signature: /s/ Carolyn Miller 
Name:
 
Carolyn Miller  
Position:  Director, Eastern Europe and Western Hemisphere Division. 
Date: March 29, 2003 
 
FOR INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
Signature: /s/ Nicholas Krafft (Acting Country Director)
Name: Nigel Roberts 
Position: Country Director, West Bank and Gaza 
Date: March 24, 2003 
Page  4
