FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. -221a-KE
APPRAISAL OF
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
KENYA
October 31, 1973
Development Finance Companies Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
K£ 1          = Ksh 20
US$ 1         = Ksh 6.90
K£ 1          = US$ 2.8985
ABBREVIATIONS
ICDC - Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB   -  Industrial Development Bank
DFCK  -  Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB  -  East African Development Bank
This report was propared by Mr. M. Dixon and Mr. D. Hidalgo on the basis of
their mission to Kenar in April 1973.



APPRAISAL OF A FIRST PROJECT TO ASSIST
THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table of Contents
Page No.
6            ~~~SUNMARY. *......*. e.eoooo... oo. so.,....o,.,Oe*os*o oo 0   1   ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ....00o00.000000000000.0000.00 @0000000000          1
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENT
Industrial Structure .000.0 00000000000 .0.*..0000*000-0     2
Industrial and Trade Policies.......................0        3
Prospects   . ..........O  O@OOO . 
III. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
The Stock Exchange ......            .................0..   6
Commercial Banks 06 00 000  0 ...................... o      6
Development Finance Institutions .,.ooo,.............0       7
IV. IDB: INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Beackgroundo.ooo  .o..................e...oooo   ......o.  o,oo*ooooooooooe o§ ...   9
Establishment of IDB ....... 0*..............                9
................. 0000 0  000 seeo*oe.. ..o.......o..o      10
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Riskoe***e,*..***.     10
Resources  ........... .. . .            .............     11
Board of Directors..0000.000.0.0.0.ce.O... OOOOe 0 0 0 L11
Management and Staff ..... .                                11
UNDP Technical Assistanceo. 00 0o00e***e**  ......          12
Appraisal Procedures            ....           ....,        12
Auditors and Lawyers      ......      .....0..0.... 0 0    12
V.  OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Business Outlook...               O. 00000000   060000 0.0  13
Resource Requirements000.00000.0 .......000*. ...           13
*                     Projected Profitability and Financial Position........      13
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
114
Recomendationso........      oooo 0ooooooo**0ooooooooooo0  14






LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   IODC - Financial Statements 1970/71 and 1971/72
2.   ICDC - List of Subsidiary Companies
3.   ICDC - Equity Investments and Large and Medium Size Loans
4.   Promotion Agreement Between the Government and IODC
5.   Statement of Policy
60   Board of Directors
7.   Projects Transmitted by ICDC to IDB
8.   Assumptions for Projected Financial Statements 1973-78
9.   Projected Operations 1973-77
10, Projected Income Statements 1973-77
11. Projected Balance Sheets 1973-77
12.  Projected Sources and Uses of Funds 1973-77
13. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan






SUMMART
i.     The Bank Group was asked to provide financing for a development finance
institution in Kenya as early as 1965. One of the initial issues raised was
the desirability of having only one Kenyan development finance institution,
given the size of the industrial sector and the need to conserve scarce manage-
ment talents and to minimize costs. In addition to the East African Development
Bank whose charter limits operations in Kenya to not more than 22.5% of its
total operations, Kenya has two main development finance institutions providing
term financing to industry: the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
(ICDW) and the Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK). For ICDC (a Govern-
ment-owned company) financing of large-scale industrial projects has represented
only a minor proportion of its activities; the major part has been to assist the
development of small enterprises owned by Kenyans. DFCK's share capital is owned
in equal parts by ICDC and three foreign shareholders. The Bank agreed with the
Government's view that both institutions are presently justified; DFCK can pro-
vide contacts with foreign sponsors through its foreign shareholders, while it
is also important to support a national institution such as ICDC.
ii.    Following a Bank mission which examined ICDC's operations in 1970, the
Bank and the Government agreed that ICDC establish a subsidiary for medium and
large scale industry and that the Bank would consider lending to that subsidiary.
The Industrial Development Bank (IDB) was established in January 1973 for the
financing of large-scale industrial projects. UNDP has agreed to finance the cost
of an expatriate General Manager and an investment adviser, and the Bank has agreed
to be executing agent for the UNDP project. The General Manager began work in
April 1973, and the advisor began in October 1973. A competent Board of Directors,
consisting of three members from Government service and three from the private
sector, has been appointed. An able Kenyan has been appointed Chief of Operations,
and other Kenyan staff is currently being recruited. IDB was appraised by the
Bank for a loan in April 1973.
iii.   Despite the recent negative impact of political developments in East Africa
and of import control measures, the present level of industrial investment in
Kenya and IDB's sizable pipeline of projects referred to it by ICDC indicate that
IDB will be able to commit K16 1.85 million (about US$5 million) for financing the_
inport component of projects during its first two years of operations.  While in
the future IDB should diversify its resources, it is recommended that its initial
foreign exchange requirements be covered by the Bank.  Accordingly a $5 million
loan is recommended.  To help IDB through its initial operating stages the Bank
should give concessional treatment to IDB regarding commitment charges. IDB's
initial free limit per sub-loan should be $200,000 with an aggregate free limit
of US$1 million.



- ii -
iv. During negotiations, understandings were reached with IDB and the
Government concerning:
(a) A method of economic appraisal of projects to be used by IDB;
(b) a method to ensure IDB will protect itself against foreign
exchange risks without jeopardizing its competitive position; and
(c) a schedule for recruiting IDB's local staff.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      For several years the Bank and the Government of Kenya have dis-
cussed appropriate channels for financing industry in Kenya. After the
Government suggested the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
(ICDC) as a possible intermediary, a Bank mission visited ICDC in November
1970 to determine its suitability for a Bank loan. The mission, after an
extensive review of ICDC's operations, recommended that ICDC establish a
subsidiary development bank which would undertake financing of medium and
large-scale industrial enterprises in Kenya, thus separating this function
from ICDC's programs to assist small-scale traders and industrialists and
to finance the takeover by Kenyans of foreign-owned properties. The Govern-
ment agreed to this recommendation and during July 1972, Bank staff assisted
in planning the establishment of the proposed subsidiary, the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB). This report is a result of a mission in April 1973
to appraise IDB for a Bank loan.



-2-
*/
II.   THE INDUSTRIAL ENVIR9NM]NT
Industrial Structure
2.01     Kenya  has a population of 12 million and a GNP of about K£60 per
capita. The industrial sector has taken a growing place in the Kenyan economy.
Manufacturing output increased from 10.4% of gross domestic product in 1964 to
11.5% in 1972; while overall GDP at constant prices grew at 6.8% annually dur-
ing that period, manufacturing output grew at an annual rate of over 8%. In
current prices, manufacturing output exceeded K£ 78 million in 1972.
2.02     The food processing and beverages subsector accounts for about 26% of
value added in manufacturing, followed by equipment and machinery (19%), chemi-
cals and oil refining (14%), textiles and transport equipment repairs (10% each),
building materials (7%), printing and publishing (6%) and mining (5%). The two
subsectors showing highest growth rates in the past few years are rubber and
paper (about 16% per annum). The mcent completion of a tire factory accounts for
a major portion of the growth in the rubber industry. The paper industry has
grown rapidly because of the success of paper converters in capturing major ex-
port markets in the Indian Ocean area. The completion of construction of tropical
Africa's first pulp and paper mill next year (of which a fair proportion of the
output will be exported) is expected to maintain the growth rate in this industry.
IFO has helped finance the pulp and paper project with an equity investment of
$4 million and loans of $1o.6 million, which were approved in December 1969. Other
high growth sectors include wood products, printing, textiles, chemicals and
electrical machinery, with growth rates of 10% to 12%.  Output from the food pro-
cessing and petroleum industries has increased at average rates of only 6% to 7%
annually, while cement output (of which Kenya is a major exporter) has grown at
about the same rate as all industry. Growth prospects are good in textiles and sugar,
both cf which Kenya imports to a large extent; and in wood products and meat pro-
cessing, which have good export potential. Mining is a minor factor inthe Kenya
economy, but a small silver mine and a fluorspar mine are currently under develop-
ment.
2.03     Industrial employment reached 96,100 in 1972 (14% of the total work force,
having grown from 11% in 1968). These employees were heavily concentrated in
large enterprises, 74% working in some 300 enterprises with more than 50 employees
out of a total of about 2,000 manufacturing firms.  Information is not available
on the value of manufacturing assets in Kenya. Annual investment in manufacturing
has increased from KE 6 million in 1964 to KI, 29 million in 1972 (an average annual
rate of increase of over 20%)which represented almost a fifth of total capital
formation in the monetary economy. The major sectors of investment in 1972 were
food and beverages (51% of total investment), cement (19%), textiles (8%) and
metal products (6%).
2.04     Industry has been concentrated in the largest cities;  Nairobi and Mombasa
account for over 60% of all industrial employment and an even larger proportion of
manufacturing output. Several other urban centers account for most of the remain-
der, with some agricultural processing and small-scale industry in rural areas.
About 60% of manufacturing output is produced by enterprises which are predominantly
owned by foreigners. Another 22% is owned by Kenya citizens, and the remaining
18% is publically-owned.
1/ see IBRD report No. AE-22 of March 3, 1972, for a detailed analysis of the
Kenya economy and report No. AE-12, Volume IV of April 16, 1971, for a detailed
analysis of Industrial Development in Kenya.



- 3 -
2.05    In 1971 manufacturing exports amounted to Ka 58 million and are
estimated to have represented almost 30% of industrial sales and over half
of Kenya's total exports of K£ 107 million. Exports to Kenya's two partners
in the East African Community, Tanzania and Uganda, accounted for about half
of Kenya's industrial exports.  The distribution of industrial exports was as
follows:
Industrial supplies (chemicals, cement)       31%
Fuel                                          31%
Processed foods (meat, pineapple, cashews)  18%
Consumer goods                                17%
Machinery                                      3%
Total                100%
Intermediate goods accounted for about 60% of Kenya's imports in 1971 of K£ 200
million, with capital goods and consumer goods accounting for about 20% each.
Industrial and Trade Policies
2.06    The current Development Plan (1970-74) set explicit goals for Kenyan
manufacturing, first among them a target overall gorwth rate of 9% per annum
in value added within the sector. Trade policies were planned: (i) to increase
import substitution for both consumer and capital goods; (ii) to increase
local value added to Kenyan raw material exports, fostering vertical integration
of industry; and, (iii) to expand trade with the partner states in the East
African Community so as to achieve economies of scale in certain industries.
The Plan also sought to increase the opportunities for Kenyan management and
ownership in industry, while preserving the basic encouragement of foreign
private investment. To spread the benefits of industrialization, industrial
activity was to be dispersed from the major centers, Nairobi and Mombasa.
Finally, Government was expected to take a much larger role in planning,
coordinating and financing the sector.
2,07     Investment Incentives and Protection,  New industrial projects may
obtain certain benefits if granted certificates of Approved Enterprise by
the Minister of Finance and Planning4 The Minister grants certificates on
the basis of the recommendations of the New Projects Committee, an informal
committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary of Commerce and Industry and
including representatives of the Ministry for Finance and Planning, ICDC, the
Development Finance Company of Kenya and whichever Government office might
have an interest in the project. Although criteria considered by the Committee
include local value added, employment creation, foreign exchange savings
and protection, no overall economic analysis of a project is attempted.
Approved projects usually obtain a remission of import duties on machinery and
spare parts required, and a guarantee that foreign exchange will be available
to repatriate foreign investments and remit profits. Without



a Clertificate of Approved Enterprise, profit remittances and repatriation
of investment are subject to exchange control regulations. Kenya does not
grant tax incentives for new industries other than a special depreciation
a llowance of 20 percent of all new investment in the first year of operation
in addition to normal depreciation. The company income tax rate is 40 percent.
In addition, Kenya has just imposed a 10% sales tax on all manufactured goods,
both imported and domestic.
2.08  As a member of the East African Community, Kenya has a common external
tariff with Tanzania and Uganda. The average import tariff on consumer
goods is 35%, while that on imported raw materials is 20%. Under the provisions
of the Treaty establishing the East African Community in 1967, Kenya manufacturers
exporting to Uganda and Tanzania are liable to pay a transfer tax equivalent to a max-
imum of 90% of the common external teriff on items produced in the other partner
states. Trade within the Community is also hindered by preferential purchasing
practices of State trading corporations, as well as by exchange control regulations
between the partner States. The Community also is responsible for licensing the
establishment of new plants in certain industries, the most important of which
is textiles.
2.09 Kenya introduced general import licensing procedures in early 1971. The
previous selective licensing had primarily been a device to provide protection
for certain industries beyond that provided by import duties. General import
licensing was instituted in early 1971 to halt the deterioration in Kenya's
balance ofpayments by restricting the overall level of imports. This approach
was chosen since Kenya cannot change the level of import duties without the
agreement of its partners in the East African Community. Kenya's balance of
payments have now imporved substantially and Government has stated that it plans
to relax import licensing procedures substantially. The administrative capacity
to deal with import licensing procedures has been inadequate, has resulted in
some instances of manufacturers being unable to import raw materials, and has
also provided excessive protection to some domestic producers. Kenya's price-
control arrangements have not been effective in offsetting windfall profits
for some local producers, since only a few consumer goods (beer, textiles,
apparel) are subject to price control.
2.10 Requests for protection are considered by an informal Industrial Protection
Committee which ischaired by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and includes
representatives of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Customs and Excise
authorities and other Government offices concerned.
2.11 Several studies have attempted to determine the efficiency of industry
in Kenya under world market conditions, but because of difficulties in obtain-
ing data and the methodologies used, the studies are not felt to be reliable.
Qualitative impressions of the manufacturing sector indicate that it is on
the whole quite efficient, with the exception of one or two new, large import
substitution projects based on imported raw materials; and of some very small
African manufacturers who have been recently encouraged by Government to set



- 5 -
up small firms which have often not been economically viable. The evidence
for this impression of a generally efficient manufacturing sector is Kenya's
relatively good performance in exporting manufactured goods (see para. 2.05)
and the concentration of industry in the processing of domestic agricultural,
timber and animal products.
2.12     Kenyanization.  Kenya is committed to increasing the role of nationals
in the economy and at the same time it welcomes foreign investment in industry.
Recognizing the shortage of local entrepreneurship, Government has concentrated
in turning over transportation and retail trade, which has primarily been owned
by Asians, to Africans. It has done this by a gradual process of withdrawing
licences from non-citizens. At the same time, it has encouraged non-citizens
to move from trade to manufacturing enterprises. Government has insured a
national interest in industry by often taking a minority shareholding in new
ventures, often at the request of foreign investors. In a few instances, such
as mining, Government has indicated that it wants new ventures to be controlled
by national interests.
2.13     Government has also encouraged the Africanization of industry by
requiring the licensing of expatriate employees and decreases the licenses
issued as Kenyans with suitable training and experience become available.
The university of Nairobi has just instituted a Masters program in Commerce with
the assistance of Canadian aid which will initially graduate 20 students a year
for future management positions. The university also graduates 50 Kenyans a
year in engineering.  Technical Institutes in Nairobi and Mombasa provide
training for some 4,000 students each year.
2.14.   The industrial Survey and Promotion Center.(ISPC).   ISPC was created
at the recommendation of UNIDO at the end of 1970 as a Government agency
attached to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; its role is to identify,
define and promote potential industrial projects for Kenya.   ISPC has had
staffing problems and has not been very effective in project identification;
its main contribution so far has been to study the technical aspects of
projects already identified and to participate in the Government team
preparing the 1974-78 Development Plan.   ISPC is planning to be fully
staffed by the end of 1973.   It will have six international experts including
a General Manager, an Economist, a Financial Analyst and 3 Industrial Engi-
beers; each expert will have at least one Kenyan counterpart. If ISPC
succeeds in strengthening itself, it could be useful to the local development
finance institutions in identifying new possibilities for industrial
investment.
Prospects
2.15    Preliminary drafts of the next Development Plan forecast output and
investment growth in line with achievements to date, with targets of a 7.5%
annual growth in GDP and a 10% growth in manufacturing output and investment.
2.16    A significant and needed constribution to the sector of the present
project would be to ensure that projects financed are considered on the basis
of their economic as well as of their financial merits. A possible future
project to finance smaller scale industrialization is envisioned which would
complement the present one. Together, the two could do much to spur invest-
ment and entrepreneurship in the sector.



III - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
3.01    Kenya has a relatively well developed framework of financial
institutions. In addition to a small but growing stock exchange, and eleven
commercial banks providing mainly short-term loans for working capital, there
are three development finance institutions providing term financing for
industrial investment.
The Stock Exchange
3.02    Nairobi has a fairly well developed stock exchange which until
recently also dealt in Tanzanian and Ugandan securities. The introduction
of exchange controls in these two countries has diminished the Exchange's
regional character, but turnover of Kenyan securities continues to increase.
About 70 companies are registed on the Nairobi Stock Exchange and the shares
of 36 of these are traded regularly. Most of these companies are well established
and have a history of steady dividend payment. In recent years three or four
new issues have been made annually, some of which were partly underwritten
by the commercial banks or their merchant banking subsidiaries. Few new
industrial projects are financed through issues on the Exchange, however, as
brokers and buyers prefer stocks with a history of profitable performance.
3.03    With the objective of contributing to the development of the stock
market in Nairobi and of encouraging Africans to invest in shares, ICDC
established the ICDC Investment Company which allows ICDC to divest its
holdings in favor of small private investors. ICDC has transferred some of
its shareholding in several of the more successful companies in which it has
investments to the Investment Company, most of which companies are not publicly
traded themselves. The Investment Company also makes some purchases for its
portfolio directly from companies, which are usually foreign owned.  Share
ownership in the Investment Company is limited to citizens. The Investment
Company has been successful: in each of the past two years it has made profits
of over 20% on share capital and distributed a cash dividend of 15%. ICDC's
ownership has decreased to 24% of, the Investment Company as sales to the public
have progressed. The current market price of the Investment Company's Shares
is Ksh 15 compared to the original issue price of Ksh 5.
Commercial Banks
3.04    Amont the commercial banks operating in Kenya, the largest are
Kenya Commercial Bank, (KCB), Barclay's and Standard Bank.  KCB is 60% owned
by the Government and 40% by Grindley's International.  Both Barclay's and
Standard are wholly owned by their parent organizations in the United Kingdom.
These three banks presently have over 80% of the total assets and liabilities
of the banking system. Most loans are for less than one ear and finance
inventories, equipment and spare parts and exports. Rates of interest on
deposits below a certain size vary at present from 2% to 3% p.a. on twelve-
month deposits. These rates are now one percentage point below rates prevailing
twelve months ago, because demand for short-term advances has dropped considerably
and the banks are very liquid. Lending rates on bank loans are around 9-10%.



-7-
The commercial banks sometimes make medium-term loans and equity investments,
and occasionally underwrite bond and share issues.
Development Finance Institutions
3.05        There are three main development finance institutions providing
term financing to industry in Kenya: the Industrial and Commercial Development
Corporation (ICDC), the Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK) and the
East African Development Bank (EADB), which are described below. In addition,
there is a Government-owned institution, the Kenya Tourist Development Corporation
(KTDC) which is responsible for the promotion and financing of tourist projects.
3.06        East African Development Bank.  EADB was established in 1968 by the
three member Governments of the East African Community (Kenya, TJganda and
Tanzania) for financing industrial projects in the three countries. In order
to promote investment in Tanzania and Uganda, which have a less developed
industrial sector than Kenya, EADB's charter limits EADB's operations in Kenya
to not more than 22.5% of its total operations. Therefore, its ability to invest
in Kenya projects is circumscribed by its ability to invest in projects in
Tanzania and Uganda. As of December 31, 1972, EADB had a net worth of Ka 7.3
million and borrowings totalling KZ 5.5 million including a loan from IBRD of
$8 million made in 1972 (see Report no. DB-87a of June 6, 1972). In the four
years from 1969 through 1972, EADB approved 7 projects for K£ 1.72 million in
Kenya (of which 11% was equity financing and 20%, convertible loans). In
addition, it provided ICDC with two loans of K£ 0.58 million to enable ICDC
to take equity investment in several new industrial projects. EADB's average
annual approvals for financing Kenyan projects has therefore been about K£ 0.55
million. EADB currently charges 9% interest on its loans.
3.07        Development Finance Company of Kenya Ltd.  DFCK was established in
1963, for the promotion and financing of mediuml and large industrial enterprises
in Kenya. Development agencies of Britain (the Commonwealth Development Corporation),
Germany (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit),Holland (Nederla.ndse
Financierings-Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelinglanden N.V.) and Kenya (ICDC) own
DFCK',s share capital in equal proportions. As of December 31, 1972 DFCK's resources
consisted of its paid-in share capital of ES 2 million and 8% income notes of K£ 1
million, subscribed in equal proportions by DFCK's four shareholders. The share-
holders are also planning to provide another K£ 2 million of income notes. To
date DFCK has received all of the resources needed to finance its operations from
its shareholders. DFCK has approved 21 projects for K£ 4 million during the four
year period from 1969 through 1972 or an average of K£ 1 million per year, of
which about 30% was for equity finance. Its interest rate on loans has been 9%,
but it is contemplating increasing this to 9½%. DFCK's investment proposals
have to be approved by each shareholder, which makes it basically an instrument
of the foreign institutions which control it.



- 8 -
3.08        Industrial & Comercial Development Corporation.  ICDC is a statutory
corporation which was established in 1955. Besides holding Government's in-
vestment in DFCK, it has also directly provided finance for large scale in-
dustrial projects in Kenya. During the four year period from June 30, 1968
to June 30, 1971, it has approved investments of K£ 2.2 million in 35 new
industrial projects, for an annual average of about K£ 0.55 million of which
84% was for equity finance. Its interest rate on loans has been 8 g. ICDC has
financed its operations in this field primarily from loans and grants from
Government, which have typically been provided on a project-by-project basis.
It has also received two loans amounting to K£ 0.58 million from EADB to
finance its equity investments in about ten projects. ICDC's industrial
operations have been hampered by a lack of sufficient resources and it has been
unable to be more active in providing loans because of the shortage of funds
available to it.
3.09        The financing of large scale industrial projects has however only
been a small part of ICDC's total business, accounting for about 28% of its
total portfolio of Kg 9 million. It has primarily been engaged in providing
loans to small scale African businessmen, to buy out foreign-owned retail shops
and to assist them to finance other small scale businesses. Through its
subsidiary, the Kenya Industrial Estates Ltd., it has developed an industrial
estate in Nairobi and is developing four others. ICDC has received substantial
assistance from KfW of Germany in financing the Nairobi industrial estate for
small scale African businesses. Other bilateral sources have also entered into
negotiations with ICDC for financing the other industrial estates. ICDC also
owns Kenya National Properties Ltd. which assists Kenyans to acquire business
sites and properties. Government currently has under consideration a plan for
a substantial expansion of assistance to small scale business, which may lead
to a request for World Bank Group assistance to this sector.
3.10        Annex 1 shows ICDC's financial statements for 1971/1972, while Annex
2 lists ICDC's subsidiary companies, and ICDC's investments in large scale
industry are listed at Annex 3.



IV - IDB: INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
Background
4.01     The Bank Group was requested to provide finance for a development
finance institution in Kenya as early as 1965. One of the initial issues raised
was whether, given the size of Kenya's industrial sector, it would not be preferabl
to have only one development finance institution to serve large scale industry
instead of both DFCK and ICDC, with the additional costs and use of scarce
management talents involved. Government has argued that for the time being it
considers it desirable to have both DFCK and a fully governmental institution
providing finance for industrial development even though they are to a large
extent directly competitive. DFCK, through its foreign shareholders, provides
Kenya with contacts with foreign sponsors that it might not otherwise have.
At the same time, it is important to Kenya to support ICDC, with its more national
character.  As noted previously, EADB will contInue~ to be lmimtediin its operations
in Kenya by the differential formula requiring them not to exceed 22.5% of EADB's
total commitments.
4.02    ICDC was first examined by the Bank in 1970.  The mission concluded
that it would be preferable for ICDC to establish a subsidiary for large scale
industry, and that the Bank should then consider directly lending to such a
subsidiary. The Government shared these views. The main reason for this recom-
mendation was ICDC's involvement in a wide variety of operations. A significant
part of ICDC's operations involve the transfer of assets from non-citizens and
therefore have a major social and political aspect that almost require ICDC
to have a role and position akin to a Governmental department than to a financ:1
intermediary; and the Government agreed that a more autonomous financial insti-
tution was required to deal with the industrial sector. Second, the establishment
of a subsidiary to promote and finance medium to large scale Kenyan and joint
venture projects also was in accordance with the trend ICDC has followed of
setting up separate companies to undertake part of its activities when the
volume of work called for a more concentrated effort, as for instance was the
case with the Kenya Industrial Estates and the Kenya National Trading Corporation.
Establishment of IDB
4.03      IDB was incorporated under the Companies Act on January 12, 1973,
as a limited liability company. IDB's Memorandum and Articles of Association
were adopted at the first meeting of shareholders held on January 9, 1973.
The subscribed share capital of IDB is KE 2 million, of which K£ 500,000
was paid-in by June 30, 1973, and the balance will be paid in three install-
ments of K£ 500,000 each in the next three years. The Government of Kenya
will subscribe directly to 49% of the share capital, and will provide ICDC
the resources to subscribe to the remaining 51%. The share capital is
being paid up in installments because of Governmentts budgetary constraints.
While this is not expected to inhibit IDB's operations, it has the dis-
advantage that IDB is projected to incur small losses during its first two
years of operations since the income from investments will be less than if
the share capital were paid in at one time.



- 10 -
4.04    The division of responsibilities between IDB and its parent, ICDC,
are spelled out in a Promotion Agreement (see Annex 4) signed on December 18,
1972 which provides that ICDC will not finance any industrial project with a
capital cost of more than K£ 50,000 unless IDB has decided not to invest
in such project or has decided to invest jointly with ICDC.  ICDC staff will
continue to supervise ICDC's existing portfolio of investment in large scale
industry, and it will also work together with IDB on joint investments.
Policies
4.05    IDB's operations will be guided by its Policy Statement (Annex 5) which
was drafted in consultation with the Bank and adopted by IDB's Board of Directors
in February 1973. It conforms in all significant respects to policy statements
adopted by other development finance companies. The Policy Statement states
that IDB will finance industrial enterprises including mining, agro-industries
and engineering enterprises.  It excludes IDB from financing purely commercial,
real estate and farming activities. While the Policy Statement does not exclude
IDB from financing tourist projects, it is expected that this field will be primarily
taken care of by KTDC. According to it, IDB will limit its total financial
assistance to a single enterprise to 20% of IDB's subscribed share capital and
reserves, which will initially permit IDB to make a maximum investment of Ka  00,000
in a single venture. Equity investments in an enterprise will not exceed 10%
of IDB's subscribed share capital and reserves, initially equivalent to a maximum
of K£ 200,000. IDB's total equity portfolio will not exceed its subscribed
capital and reserves. IDB will not finance more than 50% of a project's total
cost including permanent working capital, and will not acquire an interest of
more than 49% in the share capital of any one enterprise. IDB's minimum
investment is KS 20,000 in projects with a minimum capital cost of K£ 50,000.
Smaller investments are to be made by ICDC directly. Equity investments
will form an important part of IDBts operations (estimated at 25% of
the total) in accordance with Kenya's desire to have substantial national
stake in new ventures.
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
h.o6    In addition to a commitment fee of 1%, IDB intends to charge its
borrowers an interest rate of not less than 9%, depending on prevailing
interest rates in Kenya for term loans. IDB's main competitors, DFCK and
EADB, are charging 9% at present, although DFCK wants to raise its rate to
9 1/2% to increase its spread on borrowed funds (which is only 1% at present).
IDB also hopes to be able to charge 9 1/2%. DFCK currently has, however, a
competitive edge since it lends in local currency, while EADB relends its
foreign borrowings in foreign currency and its borrowers have to bear the
foreign exchange risk. To allow IDB to be competitive, the Bank and the
Government have agreed that in cases where IDB will not be able to pass the
entire exchange risk to its clients, the foreign exchange risk on the Bank's
loan to IDB will be shared between Government and IDB's borrowers. This
will be accomplished by IDB having its borrowers assume the risk of exchange
fluctuations between the Kenya shilling and the US dollar (a currency to which
shilling has been tied and with which IDB's borrowers would be familiar),
and have Government agree to accept the risk on any fluctuation between US dollars
and the currencies in which the Bank loan was disbursed.



Resources
4.07     Initially the only resources of IDB will be its share capital of
K£2 million (which will finance IDB's equity investments) and the proposed
Bank loan of US$5 million (K£1.8 million) which will finance the bulk of
IDB's lending activities for the first two years of its operation (see
para. 5.02 below).
Board of Directors
4.o8     IDB's Articles of Association provide that the Board will have a
maximum of seven Directors. The Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of
Finance and Planning and of Commerce and Industry, as well as the Executive
Director of ICDC, will be ex-officio Directors. The other four Directors
will be persons outside the Government of Kenya having extensive knowledge
of and proven ability in industry and who will be appointed by the Government
for a three-year period. Three of the four non-official Directors have been
appointed (see their background in Annex 6); they are competent persons from
various regions and backgrounds and have alreaty shown keen interest in the
IDB.
4.09     Since IDB was incorporated in January, the Board has been meeting
monthly, and it is expected that it will meet at leas four times a year in
the future. Mr. Matu Wamae, ICDC's Executive Director, has been appointed
Chairman of IDB.
Management and Staff
4.10     General Manager.  The Government and the Bank agreed during the
preparation of the project that at this moment there was no Kenyan available
with the required experience to manage a new development bank like IDB. it
was therefore agreed that, at least during the initial two years of operations,
there would be an experienced expatriate General Manager. Mr. Christian Dervrichian,
a Belgian National with extensive experience in banking in Africa, was appointed
as the first General Manager of IDB; he assumed his duties on April 1, 1973.
4.L1    Staff.  Initially only a small professional staff will be required.
It will include a chief of operations, a senior project officer, two jun ior
project officers and an engineer, all in charge of project appraisal and
supervision; and a chief accountant. This staffing is expected to be adequate
for IDB's initial forecast business of about ten projects a year. IDB has
advertised for these professional positions; until they are recruited, ICDCts
project, accounting and secretarial staff are assisting IDB. Mr. Joseph Gatuiria,
former Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, has been appointed Chief
of Operations and joined IDB on October 1, 1973. IDB has, during negotiations,
agreed to hire a senior and one junior project officer before December 31  1973,
and an engineer and at least one other project officer before March 31, l97L..
Given the need to train Kenyans for development banking work, a competent
expatriate advisor to the Chief of Operations has been sought to assist IDB
during its early years. Mr. Marinus Piek, a World Bank staff member, has
been accepted by the Government and IDB for that position and joined IDB in
October 1973.



- 12 -
UNDP Technical Assistance
4.12     Given the low profitability expected for IDB in its initial years
of operations and the relatively high cost of foreign personnel in Kenya,
the Government has requested, and the UNIP has agreed to make, a technical
assistance grant to cover the cost to IDB of the Advisor to the Chief of
Operations and that portion of the salary of the General Manager exceeding
the salary wthich would be paid to a Kenyan. The Project Document was signed
in April 1973. The Bank has agreed to be the Executing Agent for the UNDP
project and has recruited the two expatriates mentioned above.
Appraisal Procedures
4.13     Given the substantial amount of protection provided to manufacturers
(see para. 2.09) by the current import restrictions, it is important that
IDB develop rapidly a good capability in the economic analysis of projects.
During negotiations IDB has agreed to estimate the economic rate of return
of projects it finances following guidelines agreed with the Bank.
Auditors and Lawyers
4.14     IDB has hired Pannell, Kerr & Foster, an  experienced firm of
auditors satisfactory to the Bank, to audit IDB1s accounts annually in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Copies of the
auditors' reports should reach the Bank within four months after the close
of IDB's financial year, which ends on December 31. The law firm of Kaplan
and Stratton has been retained to prepare IDB's legal documents for its loans
and equity investments. It is an experienced firm with an excellent reputation.



- 13 -
V - OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Business Outlook
5.01     Despite the recent negative impact on industrial investment,
resulting from the situation in Uganda and from the import control measures,
IDB already has a sizable pipeline of about 20 projects, which have been
referred to it by ICDC (see Annex 7). They include among others a dehydrated
vegetable plant, a diatomite mine, two cotton textile mills,    a nylon yarn
project, a wool processing plant, two yeast and alcohol projects, a caustic
soda plant and a plywood and furniture project. These projects would require
about K£2.5 - 3 million from IDB during the next two years. While some of
these projects may drop out or turn out to be marginal, other projects are
expected to replace them. Based on recent trends in Kenya IDB believes that
there will be a 10% average annual growth in manufacturing investment from
the present level of about K£29 million, and that IDB will finance initially
about 4% of the total. These assumptions appear reasonable.
Resource Requirements
5.02     Assumptions for IDB's forecast operations are shown in Annex 8
while Annex 9 shows the projected level of operations from the last quarter
of 1973 to 1977. IDBts commitments would be as follows: (in KG 000):
Commitments                       1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
(3 months)
Loans                                225    1050    1175    1300    1400
Equity investments                    75     360      405     430     470
Total                         300    i410    1580    1730    1870
The bulk of IDB's loans would finance the import component of projects.  IDB
will need therefore KU1.85 million (about US$5 million) to cover its forecast
commitments until mid-1975; its equity funds will be adequate to cover
forecast equity investments during this period and any local component of
IDB's lending operations.
Projected Profitability and Financial Position
5.03     The financial projections assume that IDB will be able to lend at
9 1/2% and that liquid funds will be temporarily invested in deposits yielding
about 5%. Equity investments are forecast to yield 5% on the fourth and 10%
on the fifth year following the investment. IDB's administrative expenses
will be K£40,000 in 1973 and K£60,000 in 1974. On the basis of these assumptions,
IDB will probably incur small losses in its first two years of operations and
will become modestly profitable starting in 1975. Projected Income Statements
are shown in Annex 10, while Annexes 11 and 12 show projected Balance Sheets
and Statements of Sources and Uses of Funds. Because of high equity investment
component in IDB's operations (25% of total commitments) and the need to cover
its equity portfolio with IDB's own equity, leverage will remain low and the
debt/equity ratio will not exceed 2:1 during the forecast period.



VI - CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions
6.01    Government has emphasized the need for IDB, and the Bank concurs
with the Government views. Thus, IDB has been established, with the assistance
of the Bank, as a subsidiary of ICDC to help develop and finance medium and
large scale industrial projects. The Bank has found a General Manager for
IDB and also an Advisor to the Chief of Operations for the new institution.
IDB has a competent Board and a suitable Policy Statement. It is already in
the process of recruiting its local staff and the Government has already
provided it with the initial share capital. IDB has a useful role in ensuring
that projects undertaken are considered on their economic as well as financial
merits. Further Bank support for IDB with a loan is justified. Over time, as
IDB becomes successful, it is expected that it will be in a position to mobilize
funds from other sources as well. IDB would be suitable for a Bank loan of
US$5 million which would cover its import financing commitments for about
two years.
Recommendations
6.02    Disbursements.  The loan would finance the CIF cost of imported goods
and/or the estimated foreign exchange component of imported goods purchased
through normal trade channels,of civil works and of goods made in Kenya
substantially with imported materials. Any funds remaining in the Loan
Account upon completion of the project would be cancelled. Annex 13 shows the
estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan.
6.03    The terms of the proposed loan should be those normally applied to
Bank loans to development finance companies. However, since IDB is a new
company which has not started operations, it is recommended that it receives
concessional treatment regarding commitment charges. Accordingly, the normal
commitment fee should not be charged until specific projects are authorized
for withdrawal.
6.04    The Bank should require prior approval of each project using $200,000
or more of the proceeds of the proposed loan. An appropriate aggregate free
limit would be $1 million which would ensure that projects involving at least
80% of the amount of the loan would come to the Bank for approval.
6.05    During negotiations, understandings were reached with IDB and the
Government concerning
(a) a method to ensure IDB will protect itself against foreign
exchange risks without jeopardizing its competitive position
(see para. 4.06);
(b) a schedule for recruiting IDB's staff (see para. 4.11);
(c) a method of economic appraisal of projects to be used by
IDB (see para. 4.13).



Annex 1
ICDC0  Financial Statements 1970/71 and 1971/72
(in K£ ,000)
1970/71          1971/72
I. BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
Current Assets                                  237                94
Subsidiary Companies                            361               631
Other Equity Investments                      1,345             1,926
Loans to Subsidiary Companies                   687             1,008
Other Medium and Large Loans                    278               469
&anall Loans                                  3,474             4,843
Fixed Assets                                    295              -903
Total Assets                                     6,677             977
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                              80               160
Long-Term Loans                               3,571             5,208
Grants and Equity                             3,026             4 5o6
Total Liabilities and Equity                      677
II.  INCOME STATEMENTS
REVENUS
Dividend Income                                 231               233
Interest on Loans                               221               391
Other Incame                                     26                38
Total Revenues                                     78                9
EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                         119               184
Financial Expenses                              108               178
Depreciation                                     45                64
Provisions                                       34                64
Total Expenses                                     306               490
Net Profit                                 172               172



Annex 2
ICDC - List of Subsidiary Companies
Investment
K£,~000--
1. Kenya Wine Agencies Ltd.                              52.0
2.  Kenya National Trading Corporation                   10.0
3. African Diatomite Industries                           0.1
4. Kenya National Properties                              0.1
5. Kenatco Transport Company Ltd.                       333.0
6.  Kenya Film Corporation                                2.0
7.  Pulp and Paper Company of East Africa                 0.1
8.  Kerya Industrial Estates                              0.1
9. Flourapar Company of Kenya                           153.0
10. Wananchi Saw Mills                                     6.6
11. Kenya Mining Co. Ltd.                                 51.0
12.  ICDC Investment Ccmpany                              23.9
631.9



Annex 3
ICDC - Equity Investments and Iarge ard Medium-Size Loans
(as of June 30, 1972)
(in K£,000)
Loan        Bquity       Total
Development Finance Company of Kenya         250          500         750
Kenya Industrial Estates                     605           -          605
ICDC Investment Campany                      200           -          200
Brollo Kenya Ltd.                             -           200         200
Kenya Engineering Industries                              160         160
NAS Airport Services                           -          156         156
Kenya Toray Mills                             25          124         149
Fast African Fine Spinners                    56           87         143
Fanafrica Paper Mills                         -           126         126
East Africa Industries                        -           104         104
KEnya National Properties                     80          -             80
Raymond Woollen Mills                         65                        65
J. H. Minet                                   -            53          53
Union Carbide Kenya                            -           52          52
African Diatomite Industries                   44-                      44
Eslon Plastics Ltd.                           16           25          41
Polysinthatics East Africa                     -           32           32
Wananchi Saw Mills                             32         -             32
Block Hotels                                   -           31          31
Kenya Peanuts Company                          -           31           31
Ceramic Industries                             -           30           30
Firestone East Africa                          -           25           25
Kenya Fishing Industries                       -           20           20
Kiambaa Industries                             20         -             20
Kenya Fishnet Industries                       -           18           18
J. W. Kearsley Ltd.                           14            2          16
Lake Baringo Fisheries                          7           7           14
Mea Garments                                   10           2           12
E.S.A. Limited                                 -           12           12
Kenya Industrial Plastics                       6           5           11
Nakuru Chrome Tanning                          -           10           10
East Africa Packaging Industries               10         -             10
Pulp and Paper Company                          9         -              9
E. A. Clothing Factory                         -            9            .9
African Radio Manufacturing                    -            7            7
1,4 49      lj, 828      3327?
iJ Income notes
DFCD
October 31, 1973






Annex 4
Page 1
Promotion Agreement Between the
Government and ICDC
THIS AGREEMENT is made the 18th day, of December of one thousand nine hundred
and seventy-two BETWEEN the GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter
called "the Government") of the one part and INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, a body corporate established in the said Republic
by the Industrial Development Act (Chapter 517) having its principal office
at Marshall House, Harambee Avenue, in the said Republic (hereinafter called
11I.C.D.C.") of the other part.
W H E R E A S: -
(1)    I.C.D.C. was established for the purpose of facilitating the industrial
and economic development of the said Republic and is authorized under Section
8 of the said Act, subject to the approval of the Minister for the time being
responsible for Commerce and Industry, inter alia to promote and aid in
promoting, constitute, form or organize companies, syndicates or partnerships
of all kinds and to exercise and enforce all rights and powers conferred by
or incident to its ownership of any shares, stocks, obligations or securities
for the time being held or owned by I.C.D.C.
(2)    The Government is desirous of further facilitating the industrial
development of the said Republic and it and I.C.DSC. have agreed jointly to
establish and operate in the said Republic a development Bank in the manner
and on and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter appearing.
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows: -
1.     As soon as may be practicable after the date of this Agreement, I.C.D.C.,
on behalf of the Government and itself shall procure the incorporation ir. the
said Republic of a company to be known as "Industrial Development Bank Limited"
and the Government shall procure that the consent of the Ninister for the time
being responsible for Finance shall be given, under Section 3 (1) (b) of the
Banking Act, 1968, to the use of the word "Bank" in the name of the said com-
pany, (hereinafter referred to as "the Company") notwithstanding the fact
that it is not envisaged that the Company shall at the outset be a licensed
bank under the said Banking Act.
2.     The authorized capital of the Company shall be Shillings Forty million
(Shs. 0,000,000/=) divided into Two million (2,000,000) shares of Shillings
Twenty (Shs. 20/=) each and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Company shall be substantially in the form of the draft contained in the
First Schedule annexed hereto.
3.     The Government shall procure that the Minister for Finance and Planning,
in exercise of the power conferred on him by Section 106 (1) of the Stamp Duty
Act (Chapter 48) shall grant exemption from the capital duty on the authorized
capital of the Company which would otherwise be payable under Heading 8 in the
Schedule to the Stamp Duty Act (Chapter 480).



Annex 4
Page 2
4.     I.C.D.C. shall meet in the first instance all the costs of and
incidental to the incorporation of the Company and shall be credited with
the amount thereof in the books of aacount of the Company as part of the
first instalment of the sum to be subscribed for shares in the capital of
the Company by I.C.D.C. as hereinafter provided.
5.     The parties hereto shall procure that, so long as they remain the
only holders of shares in the capital of the Company, the Board of Directors
thereof shall consists of the following: -
The Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
The Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
The Executive Director of I.C.D.C.,
The Managing Director of the Company, and
Three persons, not being officers of the Government, appointed by
the parties hereto as Members of the Company or, from time to
time, by the other Directors, to fill casual vacancies, such
appointments to be of persons who havelad extensive experience
and shown capacity in industry in the said Republic or elsewhere.
6.     Unless and until otherwise agreed by the parties hereto, they shall
be the only Members of the Company and shall hold the issued capital thereof
for the time being as to Fifty-one per cent (51%) by I.C.D.D. and as to
Forty-nine per cent (49%) by the Government.  The total authorized capital
of the Company shall be fully subscribed not later than the fourth anniver-
sary of the date of incorporation of the Company and, unless the parties
hereto, having regard to the capital requirements of the Company, shall
agree to accelerate subscription, I.C.D.C. shall subscribe the sum of
Shillings Five million one hundred thousand (Shs. 5,100,000/-) and the
Government shall subscribe the sum of Shillings Four million nine hundred
thousand (Shs. 4,900,000/-) for shares in the capital of the Company in
each of the first, second, third and fourth years following the date of
incorporation of the Company, on such dates in those years as they may
mutually agree. The parties hereto shall procure that, on subscription
in full of such amounts, totalling Shillings Ten million (Shs. 10,000,000/-)
in each of the said years the Company shall forthwith allot and issue to
I.C.D.C. Two hundred and fifty-five thousand (255,000) and to the Government
Two hundred and forty-five thousand (245,000) fully paid shares of Shillings
Twenty (Shs. 20/=) in the capital of the Company. All the shares in the
capital of the Company shall be Ordinary shares ranking pari passu with each
other in all respects.
7.     The Government will procure that I.C.D.C. shall be provided with such
funds as may be necessary to enable it to subscribe for shares in the capital
of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Clause 6 hereof.
8.     The parties hereto shall procure that the Board of Directors of the
Company shall adopt, and that the-Company shall operate initially in accord-
ance with the Statement of Policy and Regulations, a copy of which is
contained in the Second Schedule annexed hereto, provided that the same
may be modified by the said Board from time to time.



Annex 4
Page 3
9.     Frcmani after the date on which the Company shall have commenced
operations, I.C.D.C. will not approve any investment or loan for any indus-
trial project, except for those projects falling within its Industrial
Estates and small scale Industrial Loans Programmes, with an estimated
capital cost of more than Shillings One million (She. 1,000,000/=) unless
and until the Company shall have decided not to invest in such project or
the parties hereto have agreed to invest jointly therein.
10.    Each of the parties hereto shall use its best endeavours to procure
the successful operation of the Company as an effective instrument for the
promotion and development of industry in the said Republic.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
duly authorized in that behalf under the Government Contracts Act (Chapter 25)
has hereunto set his hand and L C.D.C. has caused its Common Seal to be here-
unto affixed the day anu year first above written.
May 15, 1973






Annex 5
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPM3NT BANK LIMITED (IDB)
STATEMENT OF POLICY
1.     The Industrial Development Bank Limited is a financial institution
created by the Government of Kenya and the Industrial and Commercial Devel-
opment Corporation for the purpose of furthering the economic development
of Kenya by assisting in the promotion, establishment, expansion and modern-
ization of medium and large scale industrial enterprises, including mining,
agro-industries, engineering and such other enterprises as the Board may
approve. In pursuance of this objective it shall be the purpose of the
Bank to achieve and maintain a satisfactory and acceptable return on the
shareholders' capital compatible with the maintenance of a sound financial
position. The IDB will not assist enterprises in the purely commercial,
real estate and purely farming activities.
2.     The IDB will promote the industrial development of Kenya through one,
or a combination of the several of the following methods:
(a) Provision of medium and long-term loan finance.
(b) Direct equity investments.
(c) Provision of guarantees for loans from other sources.
(d) Underwriting security issues, shares stocks and
similar obligations.
3.     The IDB will normally finance or otherwise assist enterprises only
where new productive assets are to be created and will normally not engage
in re-financing operations.
4.     The IDB  operations shall be guided by sound banking principles.
The Bank's investments decisions shall be based on sound appraisal methods,
and will particularly take into account the total financial requirements
of the project and the soundness of the resulting financial structure for
the enterprise.
5.     The Bank shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects, and those which have or will have competent
Management.
6.     The Bank shall not invest in any project in which the total capital
cost including permanent working capital is less than K£50,000 and will no,
invest an amount of less than K£20,000 in any project.
7      mThe Bank shall not finance or otherwise commit itself in any ente-
prise to the extent of more than 50% of the project's total capital cost
including permanent working capital.
8.     The Bank will not seek to acquire a controlling interest in its
equity investments, and shall not acquire an interest of more than 49%
the share capital of any one enterprise. The IDB will not in normal



Annex 5
Page 2
circumstances manage enterprises, although it will use its best endeavour
to ensure the acquisition of competent Management. It will, however, not-
withstanding these limitations, take such action as it considers appropriate
where, in case a project supported by it is in jeopardy, it has to protect
its investment.
9.     The Bank's equity investment in any one enterprise shall not exceed
10% of its unimpaired subscribed capital stock, surplus and reserve at the
time of the investment decision.
10.     The aggregate amountsof the Bank's loans, equity holding or guarantees
to any one enterprise shall not exceed 20% of the Bank's unimpaired subscribed
stock, and reserve at the time of the investment decision.
11.     The Bank's aggregate investments in share capital shall not be allowed
to exceed the Bank's own unimpaired subscribed share capital, surplus and
reserves.
12.     The Bank's total debts including guarantees shall not at any time,
exceed three times the amount of its unimpaired subscribed share capital
plus surplus and reserves.
13.     The Bank shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.
14.     The Bank shall seek to diversify its investments both  geographically
and by industrial sectors.
15.     The Bank shall give special consideration to enterprises utilizing
considerable local material and labour resources, and to export oriented
projects.
16.     The Bank shall seek to revolve its funds as much as possible by
selling its equity portfolios where prices which give it a reasonable
return on its investments are obtainable.
17.     The Bank shall charge, for its funds or services, interest rates,
fees, or coxmissions which are compatible with the prevailing market rates
and/or which enable it to earn a reasonable return on its operations.
18.     The Bank shall take such security for its loans and guarantees as
the Bank's Board of Directors shall, for each investment determine adequate
or reasonable.
19.     The Board of Directors shall conduct the business of the Bank in
accordinace with the Company's Act, and shall observe the exchange control
regulations.
20.     The Bank shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations.
21.     The Bank shall supervise its investments to protect its interests and
to enable it to assist its projects to the maximum extent possible.
22.     The Board of Directors of the Bank shall lay such rules and regulations
as it deems fit to govern the day to day operations of the Bank.
DFCD
May 15, 1973



Annex 6
Industrial Development Bank
Board of Directors
Mr. Matu Wamae (Chairman)          Executive Director, ICDC
Mr. Philip Ndegwa                  Permanent Secretary to the Ministry
of Finance and Planning
Mr. G. Matheka                     Permanent Secretary to the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry
Mr. R. Kemoli                      Officer, Cdmmonwealth Development
Corporation
Mr. K. Mwendwa                     Director, Mackenzie Dalgety
Mr. B. M. Gecaga                   Director, British American Tobacco
and President of University of
Nairobi Council
DFCD
May 15, 1973






ANNEX 7
LIST OF PROJECTS 1TRNSMIMMD BY ICDC TO IDB
(in] K£ 000)
Contemplated            Total Project  Potential IDB
Prolect                    Activity                    Cost         FinaneinR
1. Tannery               Skins processing               320            160
2. Techinion             Printing                       275            130
3. K. Cashewnut          Cashewnut processing          1700            400
4. Bakers Yeast          Yeast manufacturing            700            200
5. Diatomite             mining                         730            360
6. Panafoods             Dehydrated vegetable           875            400
7. Wool Processing       Wool carding                   610-           300
8. Flamingo              Toxtiles                      6220            400
9. Eltex                 Textiles-                     5600            400
10. S.F.Y.                Nylon fibres                  3780            400
11. Maize Starch    -    Starch and glucose              871            400
12. Caustic Soda          Caustic soda                  2430            400
13. Pencil Project        Pencil production              100              50
14. Filter                Oil and air filters             60              30
15. Plywood               Plywood                        550             250
16. P. Alcohol            Chemicals                     1700            hOC
17. CSW                    Sanitary ware                 300            15
18. Maize Milling         Maize production               253             1'
19. Hola Ginnery          Cotton ginning                 150
20. Pharmaceutials        Pharmaceuticals                500
21. Fibreboard            Fibreboard                     700
22. M.V.A.                Automotive assembly           1750
30,1114
DFCD
May 15, 1973






Annex 8
Page I
INDUSTRIAL OEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
PROJECTED OPERAI'IONS. RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS FOR THE VEARS  -  1973 TO  1978
Assumotions for Projected Financial.Statements
A. GENERAL
1. .  Average size project (KEC000)
Total Cagitalisation           ID8'S INVESTMrNT
Amount          %              Amount          %
Equity                 200.          33.3                50            25-
Loan                   400           66.7               150            37.5
600          100.0              200            33.3
2..    Foreign exchange component of project   50%, and of IDB's
Investment, 75%.
B.. FORECAST OPERATIONS AND RESOURCES
1..    Approvals of loans =  KE450,000 for tha last six months
of 1973, Ki1.l million in 1974, increasing by 10%
onnually thereafter.  Equity investments, one third
of loan approvals.
2.     Commitments:  Contracts signed 3 months after Board epprovbl dat
3.     Disbursements of loans over one year after commitment;
equity investments are disbursed immediately after
commitement.
4.     Resources: a) Share capital:  KE 2 million
KO.5 million paid before 30/6/'
MKO.5 million paid before 1/9/71
MKED.5 million paid before 1/9/7
KiC.5 million paid before 1/9/7
Increased to KC3 million in 195
(or when equity portfolio exceeds ID6's
own equity).



Annex 8
-2-                          Page 2
4.     Resources:  b)  Foreign Borrowings;
for June 30 1973-- 75 : KC 1.8 million
for June 30 1975 - 77 : Kg 2.6 million
for June 30 1977 - 79 : KE 3.0 million
C.     INCOME STATEMENTS:
1.     Short term investments earn 5%
2.     Dividend return on equity investments: 5% in fourth
year, 10% in fifth year, 15% after sixth year.
3.     Average term of loans:
a) Repaid over 12 years including 2 years of grace
(Repayments applied to foreign borrowinge)
b)  Interest spread of 2K % (intezest rate of 9Yk %
less borrowing cost of 7? %)
c)  Commitment fee of X % on undisbursed balances
offset by commitmsnt fee on foreign borrowings.
4,     Administrative Cxpenses of KE40,000 in 1973,
KE60,000 in 1974, increasing by 5% annually thereaFter.
5.     Provisions for Bad Investments: 2% of annual disbursements
after 3 years.
DFCD
May 15, 1973



Annex 9
INDUSTRIAL DEVELCtMENT CANK LTD
Pro jected Operatioms 1973 - 1977
( in K£ 'COO)
1973       1974       1975      1976        1977.
Approvals:
Loans                 450         1,100     1,210      1,320       1,430
Equity Investments   150            380       410        440         459
600        1,480      1,620      1,760      1;5 J
Commitments:
Loans                225        1,050      1,175      1,300      i,400
Equity Invastments   75            360       405        430         470
.300        l,410      1,580     1,730       1,870
Disbursements:
Loans                115          635      1,010      1,230      1,350
Equity Investments   75            360     _405         430         470
190          995      1,415      1,66C     .1,620
DFCD
m2av 35, 1973



Anne.s1.9
INDUSTRIAL DEVELGPM{NIT SAtK LTD
Projiectecd incamr. Statcrncnts 1973 .1977
(in t£'G-20)
1973    1974    15?5   D1976    1977
INCOME
Interest on Loans        3       50      129      228     332
Dividend Income               -            -        4.     25
Interest on Deposits  21         43       52      46       26
Total Income           24        93   -181        278 .   383
EXPENSES
Interest an Borrowings 1         35       97     172      250
Administrative Expenses
4 C                        bb       70
Depreciation             2         5       5        5       *4
Psvi.Io-a for
DoLutful Investments             -        -         4      20
Total Expenses         43       100      165      247     344
Profit before tax       (19)    (7)       16       31      39
Income Tax              -        -        _         8      12
Net Profit (Loss)   (19)    (7)           16       23      27
Net Profit as  %
of Average Equity    (2.4)    (Q.5)   0.8         1.2.    1.3
Administrative Expenses as %
of Average Total Assets
5,8      ..0     2.3      1.7     1,4
DFCD
May 15, 19?3



Anne;a}
INDUSTRIAL DESEACN'- T 3ANh LTD.
Projected Balance Shents. 1973 - 1977
(in KM'OOo)
19      1974    1975    1976       1977
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Deposits        .888    1,024   1,138    37        315
Loans Receivable           -        22      128   245       376
TOTAL             888    1,C46   1,266   982        691
Portfolio
Loans                   115   . 728   1,610M"  2,592    3,551
Equity. Investments      75       435      84Q   1.269   1734
TCTAL             190    1.163   2-.450   3,861    5.285
Fixed'Assets (net)         18       15       12       10        9
TOTAL ASSETS             1,096  2,224   3,728   4,853    5,985
KY== *  ==~==   S2-    _=C 
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Cu!rent Liabilities
Loans Payable             -        22      128     245       376
Lonq-Tetm Liabilities
Borrowings         115    728      1,61D   2.595    3,569
Net Worth
Share Capital             1,000  1,500   2,000   2,000    2,000
Accumulated earnings
(loses)             (19)   (26)    (10)        13        40
Total Net Worth.    981  1,474   1,990  *2,013    2,040
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
.    965  2,224z   3 728   4 853    5985
D1CD
My 15, 1973



Annex 12
INDLUST1I1L  FVREl C'-PVNT SAK LTO.
ProSoeted Sjurnes .nJ Uses ef'Funts 1973 -1977
(in KMf'3J3)
1973   1974    1975    1976       1977
SOURCES                                                     -
Share Capital            1,000   500      5GO
Drawdown on loans          115   635    1,010   1,230    1,350
Net Profit             -.(19)   (7)         16       23       27
Qepreeiation+Charges      2        5         5        9       24
Loar Coilections
1,098  1,133   1,553   1,390    1,646
USES
Disbursements-loans      115    635      1,010   1,230    1,350
- Equity investments      75    360        405      430      470
Loan repayments            -       -        22      128      245
Fixed assets              20       2         2        3        3
Increase (decrease)
in working capital       888    136      . ' 114    (401)    (422)
1,098   1,133    1,553   1,390    1,646
m====* =s=ar=z     ==    ===   =S
D?CD
May 15, 1973



Annex 13
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan
1974                                                  Amount ($t000)
Second quarter                                         155
Third quarter                                          165
Fourth quarter                                          415
1975
First quarter                                           585
Second quarter                                         700
Third quarter                                           725
Fourth quarter                                          750
1976
First quarter                                           605
Second quarter                                         445
Third quarter                                           260
Fourth quarter                                           75
1977
First quarter                                            55
Second quarter                                           30
Third quarter                                            20
Fourth quarter                                           15
T     o t a 1      5,000
DFCD
May 15, 1973



