CIRCULATING COPY
F LLp                 y              TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1308-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
November 7, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =     Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1                  =    KSh 7.14 (through March 1973)
=    KSh 6.90 (since June 30, 1973)
K1                    =    us$2.80 (through March 1973)
-    US$208985 (since June 30, 1973)
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 to June 30
UNITS OF VALUATION
The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling (Sh.).
However, in accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government, most large
values in the report are expressed in Kenya Pounds (KE).
£ 1       =    Sh. 20
Sh 1      =    100 cents



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT  BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1 *      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Industrial Development Bank with the guarantee of the Republic of Kenya
for the equivalent of US$5 million to help finance the foreign exchange compo-
nent of investments of this new development finance company in large-and medium-
scale industrial projects in Kenya. The interest on the loan would be 7-1/4
percent per annum. Amortization will conform substantially to the aggregate of
the amortization schedules applicable to the specific investment projects
financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
PARIT I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The report of a Bank economic mission which visited Kenya in
September 1971 to review progresE made under the current 1970-74 Development
Plan entitled "Economic Progress and Prospects in Kenya" (Report No. AE-22
of March 3, 1972), was distributed (R72-60) to the Executive Directors on
March 17, 1972. Country data are presented at Annex I.
3.        A basic economic mission visited Kenya during March/April 1973 to
examine the progress made by the economy during the first decade of Inde-
pendence and to assess the strategic choices which face the Kenya Government
as the country prepares to embark upon the second decade. It is expected
that the complete report, including an evaluation of the Government's draft
Third Development Plan for the period 1974-78 and a review of all the major
sectors of the economy, will be ready for distribution to the Executive
Directors about the end of 1973. The following section on the present
position of the Kenya economy and the prospects for the future incorporates
the preliminary conclusions of the basic mission.
4.        In terms of overall growth, Kenya's economic performance since
Independence has been impressive in almost all respects. During the per-od
since 1964, GDP has grown at an average rate of about 7 per cent in real terms,
which has allowed significant gains in per capita income despite the high
population growth rate. Investment has been sustained at a high rate
in both the private and public sector and in recent years fixed capital forma-
tion has accounted for over 25 per cent of monetary GDP. This rate of invest-
ment has been made possible by one of the highest domestic savings rates in
the developing world (19-20%), and a large inflow of external aid.



- 2 -
5.        The Government's fiscal and monetary management has been one of the
factors responsible for the generally sound performance of the economy. On
the fiscal side, the public sector's performance has been very impressive.
In FY1964, Kenya had a recurrent budget deficit, a relatively insignificant
development budget and was heavily dependent on external aid. Since then, by
virtue of its determined taxation policies and disciplined control on spending
the Government has converted its recurrent deficit into a substantial surplus
(which in 1970/71 accounted for 23 percent of all national savings), has ex-
panded its development budget at an average rate of 27 percent a year, and has
considerably reduced its relative dependence on external aid.   The fact that
Kenya achieved these results without resort to expensive forms of external
financing, and with negligible internal inflation, makes this performance even
more notable.
6.        As Kenya prepares to enter its second decade of independence, however,
it faces a number of critical issues in charting its future course of economic
management.  In several respects, the Kenya economy has reached a turning point
in its development.  In agriculture, the impetus provided to the monetization of
the smallholder sector by the major programs of land transfer and settlement is
slackening. There is now little scope for further import substitution, and while
immediate export prospects now look favorable, many export crops face long-term
constraints. In manufacturing, the policy of import substitution has not only
reached the point of diminishing returns but has proved costly in that it:has, to
some extent, encouraged inefficient industries and discouraged exports,by arti-
ficially making other activities more profitable. In a more general sense, the
economic managers can expect to find their task increasingly difficult now that
many of the easier things have been accomplished. Finally, in tackling the devel-
opment task, Kenya is not helped by deteriorating terms of trade, periodic world
financial crises, and strains in the East African Community.
7.        While Kenya's performaiice in mobilizing domestic savings and maintain-
ing a high rate of capital formation has been very satisfactory, capital output
ratios have been increasing, and the progress made in generating employment and
distributing income equitably has been generally disappointing.   This is partly
due to the heavy emphasis during the early years of independence to building up
infrastructure and social services in the economy. We therefore see a need for
a greater emphasis on the directly productive sectors in resource allocation and
a more efficient utilization of resources within the productive sectors themselves.
8.        The recent baeic economic mission has recommended a shift in the
emphasis of investment policy from infrastructure and social services to invest-
ments in the two major productive sectors: agriculture and resource-based manu-
facturing. Agriculture and related manufacturing use resources more "efficiently"
in creating incoirmes and employment, conserving scarce capital and skilled manpower,
redistributing income, generating foreign exchange and perhaps even stimulating
savings more than other sectors. Moreover, in the context of Kenya, the possible
policy dilemma of having to "trade-off" growth against employment (and income
distribution) does not seem to arise since both growth and equity goals can be
achieved through this restructuring of the growth pattern. It would appear that
the agricul'aral sector has been widely discriminated against, particularly by
the trade protective system and, to some extent, by domestic pricing policies,
and we believe that these impediments should be removeid.



- 3 -
9.        In manufacturing, it appears that while Kenya may well have a compara-
tive advantage in agricultural-based processing, the protection given to import
substitution has not only encouraged the establishment of some inefficient in-
dustries and discouraged exports by distorting input prices, but has discrimi-
nated against agriculture. Improved incentives for efficient rescnrce alloca-
tion may result from the incipient moves towards uniform tariffs and incentives
for exports which the Kenyan authorities are already contemplating in collabo-
ration with the other two Partner States of the East African Community.
10e       But restructuring growth is not easy, in any country, and Kenya will
face a number of particular problems of her own. The first is to create the
appropriate environment of price and other incentives to induce the private sector
not only to develop rapidly but to make better use of the resources available to
it so as to develop in a manner which will bring greater benefits to Kenya.
11.       A second problem Kenya faces is the capacity of the public sector to
accelerate growth in the preferred sectors, particularly in agriculture. The
problem is of course largely one of skilled manpower,and it is clear that Kenya's
development potential will cantinue to be curtailed by the scarcity of skills for
a long time. Both the basic economic mission and the agricultural sector survey
mission last year have emphasized the resultant problem of low absorptive capacity
in agriculture. For industry, the dearth of managerial skills adversely affects
small-scale business development and hinders efforts to screen new large-scale
industrial projects.
12.       Since Independence, Kenya has shown a flair for solving her own problems
in her own way and, as indicated earlier, has already taken some important steps
towards initiating the kind of economic reforms noted above, and it is expected
that other reforms will be rmade. If Kenya is to succeed in achieving rapid growth
and increasing equity, it will need continued external support, including not only
an increasing flow of foreign capital on concessionary terms, but also a more flex-
ible approach to local cost financing and project design. It will also need a con-
tinued flow of technical assistance.
13.       Since Independence at the end of 1963, Kenya's total external debt in-
creased from $258 million to $510 million at the end of 1972, of which $353 million
had been disbursed. In addition to its own external public debt, Kenya is also joint-
ly responsible, together with the other two Partner States, for the debts incurred by
the East African Community and its institutions, which amounted to some $277 million
in September 1972. About 28 percent of Kenya's external debt is held by the Bank
Group, more or less equally divided between Bank and IDA; debt service to the Bank
Group equals some 7 percent of all debt service payments. By the end of the next
five-year plan period (1978), the proportion of debt held by the Bank Group could
rise to about 40 percent with the Bank Group's share of all debt service exceeding
18 percent. The Bank also holds about half of the Community's external debt.
14.       Kenya is well able to accept an increaeed burden of external debt at the
present time. In 1971, Kenya's debt servioe ratio (including a nominal one-third
share of EAC debt service) was under 6 percent. Kenya's debt service burden is there-
fore still quite light. Recent projections undertaken by the basic economic mission
suggest, however, that the burden of debt could rise sharply (to possibly 16 percent
by the end of the 1970s) if the past structure of economic growth is maintained and
if Kenya is forced to close her resource gap by increa8ing reliance on conventional



borrowing. Thus, while Kenya remains creditworthy for some additional borrowing
on conventional terms, it is important that capital inflows on concessionary terms
be forthcoming if the burden of external debt is not to rise sharply. The extent
to which Kenya will be able to restructure her growth pattern in the short- to
medium-term and, therefore, the extent to which she will need to rely on external
aid will determine the appropriate volume, terms and conditions of her aid require-
ments. These are to be reviewed in the Bank's forthcoming evaluation of Kenya's
197h-78 Plan, prepared for the next meeting of the consultative group of donors.
PART  II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KEYA
15.       Kenya has to date received eight Bank loans and thirteen IDA credits
amounting to $124.0 million and $88.7 millionr, respectively. In addition, Kenya
has been one of the beneficiaries of ten loans totalling $229.8 million which
have been ectended for the development of common services (railways, ports, tele-
communications and finance for industry) operated regionally for the three Partner
States of the East African Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II
contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East
African Community organizations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Most of the Bank Group's direct lending to Kenya in the past has been
for infrastructure, particularly transportation and power, although other sectors
such as agriculture and forestry, education and water supply have also received
support. We believe that the Bank should give greater emphasis in its lending
to Kenya to agriculture and other directly productive sectors, particularly for
projects which are likely to bring more immediate benefits to large numbers of
people and will, as much as possible, increase Kenya's foreign exchange earnings.
The project now proposed, by supporting the more efficient development of industry,
is consistent with these goals. With similar objectives in mind, the Bank agreed
with the Government on a pro->an for expanding the Bank's technical assistance in
agriculture,  A rural sector survey was mounted in Kenya near the end of 1972. We
have offered an expanded program of assistance in project identification through
the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa, and have provided a senior agricultural
advisor to assist the Government in charting a longer-term strategy for the agri-
cultural sector.
17.       This expanded technical assistance is starting to show results.   A
second agricultural credit project wfas approved by the Executive Directors in
November 1972. A proposed IDA credit of $21.5 million and a complementary finan-
cing package of further $14.2 million from various donors including Canada, the
United Kingdom and the United States for a second livestock project, which covers
a five-year beef development program calling for a total investment of $52 million
has been negotiated and will soon be submitted for consideration by the Executive
Directors. A proposed loan of arouind $12 million for a third tea development project
covering the development of factories required to process green leaf from existing
plantings is expected to be negotiated shortly. Preparatory work is under way for
a diversified smallholder production project for the drier areas of eastern Kenya,
an irrigation project for the Lower Tana area, and for a project to resettle and
rehabilitate the currently underutilized large commercial farms in the high poten-
tial areas.   While these results of our joint efforts are encouraging, they are
only a beginning. To support adequately the development of agriculture and the



rural areas of Kenya will require sustained effort. Once the Government
has had an opportunity to study both the rural sector survey report and
the basic economic report we shall discuss further with them how best the
Bank Group can support accelerated agricultural development in Kenya during
the forthcoming 1974-78 Development Plan period.
18.       Concurrently with efforts to promote the development of the rural
economy, substantial investment will continue to be required to keep
public services abreast of economic growth, and we expect to continue finan-
cing key infrastructure projects. A loan of US$29.0 million to finance
the construction of trunk, and other roads essentially serving the rural
areas was approved by the Executive Directors on August 14, 1973. A credit
to be negotiated shortly will assist Kenya's much needed family planning
program.
19.       The Bank is continuing its lending to the institutions of the East
African Community. In FY73, a third loan of $26.5 million was made to the East
African Harbours Corporation and a loan of $32.5 million supported a Third Tele-
communications Project.
20.       In addition to Bank and IDA activities, IFO has investments totalling
$23.0 million in three enterprises in Kenya: $14.7 million in the Panafrican
Paper Mills, Ltd.; $5.9 million in Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; and $2.4 million
in Tourism Pranotion Services, Ltd. (Kenya). A further investment in Panafrican
PaDer Mills. Ltd., is presently under negotiation.
PAT I      - INDUSTRY IN Ka NA
Development Plans and Overall Achievement
21.       The current Development Plan (1970-74) set explicit goals for Kenyan
manufacturing, first among them a target overall growth rate of 9 percent per
annum in value added within the sector. Among other measures to achieve this
goal, trade policies were planned: (i) to increase import substitution for
both consumer and capital goods; (ii) to increase local value added to Kenyan
raw material exports, fostering vertical integration of industry; and (iii) to
expand trade with the Partner States in the East African Community so as to
achieve economies of scale in certain industries. The Plan also sought to
increase the opportunities for Kenyan management and ownership in industry,
while preserving the basic encouragement of foreign private investment. To
spread the benefits of industrialization, industrial activity was to be dis-
persed from the major centers -- Nairobi and Mombasa. Finally, the Govern-
ment was expected to take a much larger role in planning, coordinating and
financing the sector.
22.       Although it is far too soon to assess the full impact of the current
plan, a few measures of its success are available.   From 10.4 percent of gross
domestic product (GDP) in 1964, manufacturing output grew to 11.5 percent of
the total in 1972. Hence, while overall GDP (in constant prices) grew at 6.8
percent per year from 1964 to 1972) manufacturing output grew 8.1 percent
annually over that period, averaging 10 percent a year in the last two. In



current prices, CiDP in manufacturing exceeded Kt78 million in 1972. While
private industry continued to account for over 80 percent of this total, the
publicly-owned share grew from somne 14 percent in 1970 to 18 percent in 1972.
The structure of the sector continues to change with textiles, building mate-
rials, metal fabrication and machinery taking larger shares while food pro-
cessing and transport equipment, the largest subsectors, decline relatively.
23.       Preliminary drafts for the next Development Plan (1974-78) indicate
targets of overall GDP growth of about 7.5 percent yearly with value added in
manufacturing growing some 10 percent per year. These goals are in line with
the achievements to date.
Trade and Industgr
24.       In 1971, Kenya imported KI176 million of manufactures and processed raw
materials, approximately 88 percent of all imports and exported manufactured and
processed goods valued at more than KI58 million, 55 percent of all exports. While
all imports grew at an annual rate of 8.7 percent per annum from 1966 to 1972,
consumer goods rose 4.9 percent, intermediate goods, 9.3 percent and capital goods,
13.3 percent. Thus, the attempt to shift imports from consumer goods to capital
and intermediate goods has been somewhat successful so that in 1972, consumer and
capital goods each comprised some 20 percent of total imports, intermediate goods
the remaining 60 percent.
25.       Seeking to protect industrialization and to shift the composition of im-
ports, the Government has introduced a system of import tariffs and controls. When
Kenya was confronted with balarnce of payments difficulties in late 1971, these con-
trols were further extended in an effort to conserve foreign exchange. This system
has had an adverse impact on the indulstrial sector, most sigiificantly by providing
excessive protection to some inport substitution irdustries. An import licensing
scheme has created several oligopolistic markets5 while the inevitable administra-
tive costs have favored larger, established. trading and manufacturing firms over
newer, smaller companies. The delays which result impose additional costs on the
economy as manufacturers accumulate larger inventories to hedge against import
license processing lags or compensate with faster but more expensive transport.
The pricing pattern engendered by this protective system also, on the one hand,
discriminates against the use of domestic raw materials by making them relatively
more expensive, thereby exacerbating the relative lack of vertical integration of
Kenyan industry. On the other hand, it effectively penalizes agricultural and
other-wise viable industrial. exports, increasing the relative prices of their inputs.
26.       A. noted above, manufactured exports constituted a substantial percentage
of Kenya's total,  Behind the 3as-t African Communit-'s common external tariff,
Kenya built a profitable trade in manufactures and processed raw materials with
its Partner States - Tanzania and Uganda -- of some KX34 million in 1971. How-
ever, as total exports grew at between 5 and 6 percent per annum, exports of all
manufactured goods grew at a rate of almost 8 percent a year while exports of in-
dustrial products from Kenya to the Community have grown more slowly.  This has
been due to three main factors.  First, some Kenyan light manufacturing has been
high cost production relative to world markets, inducing the Partner States to
shop elsewhere, the common tariff notwithstanding. Second, for reasons of their



own industrialization policies, Tanzania and Uganda have sought to substitute
domestic production for imports from Kenya. Third, and partly to foster such
production, the two other Partners have imposed "transfer taxes" on some 10
percent of their imports from Kenya, restricted dealing in selected products
to state trading companies and made use of favorable bilateral trading arrange-
ments. Consequently, the share of Kenya's exports of manufactures going to
the Community Partners has fallen from 57 percent of the total in 1964 to 50
percent in 1971, despite the East African Common Market.
27.       With the need to seek growth elsewhere, Kenyan industry has succeeded
in increasing exports of manufactures and processed goods to the rest of the
world to more than Kt29 million in 1971, a growth rate of just under 10 percent
a year from 1964. This progress was led by advances in chemicals, cement and
paper products, as well as processed foods. Nevertheless, Kenya continues to
rely on unprocessed foodstuffs and basic materials for almost half of all
exports.
New Trade Policy Directions
28.       The results of these trade policies and trends have been great dis-
parities within the sector in profitability. Although much of Kenyan industry
is quite efficient in global terms, some firms have taken advantage of their
protected position to make excessive profits while others have failed to con-
trol costs or innovate, and are economically inefficient. Government is con-
sidering, and has begun to adopt, several policy prescriptions to overcome
these problems. An overall reduction in the level of import tariffs within
the framework of the Community, particularly on consumer goods, with much more
restricted exceptional treatment of infant industries, and eventual elimination
of quantitative quotas and licenses would serve to minimize the present distor-
tions in the pricing system created by import controls. The recent introduction
of a sales tax on manufactures should improve efficiency by reducing effective
protection generally. Vertical integration will be fostered, on the one hand,
as the sales tax implicitly provides an incentive to switch from imported in-
puts to those produced by a firm itself. On the other hand, the exemption of
small firms from Kenya's sales tax offsets this incentive. In any event, do-
mestic value added should rise. This tax will also impose a small penalty on
consumption of manufactures without encouraging inefficient domestic production
as would a tariff. To encourage exports of manufactured goods, such exports
may be subsidized, at least as a transitional step during rationalization of
the protective structure, to correct the current disincentives and to reduce
the dependence on relatively few agricultural exports. More generally, the
structure of trade controls is slowly being replaced by market incentives,
providing a more effective discipline for the sector. Concomitantly, the
value of foreign exchange generation and returns to the economy of particular
projects can vary so greatly within an industry that Government and financial
institutions are increasingly aware of the need to undertake more detailed
economic appraisals of proposed industrial projects.



Employment Effects
29.       Industrial employment reached 96,100 in 1972, about 14 percent of
total modern sector wage employment, up from 11 percent of the total in 1968.
Some 76 percent were employed by private firms, the remaining 24 percent in
the public sector. Although employment in maniufacturing has grown more than
twice as fast as overall employment, 9.5 percent and 3.9 percent per annum,
respectively, there are indications that the sector has been overly capital-
intensive and, thus, slower to absorb labor than it might. Capital goods
imports have been subject to relatively low duties; in the case of projects
granted "Approved Enterprisell status (para. 34) by Government, such imports
have been duty-free. Coupled with relatively cheap credit and high wages in
the formal sector as a result of Government and union pressures, the price
and tariff structures have led industrial firms to higher capital intensities.
Similarly, these factors have also resulted in manufacturers operating at
sub-optimal capacity utilization rates. The changes in trade policies dis-
cussed above (para. 28) would reduce this discrimination in favor of capital.
Government is considering direct fiscal incentives for industry to stimulate
greater labor intensities, seeking a 5 percent annual growth in modern sector
wage employment and a further increase in the economic-contribution'of the
sector.
30.       Industry has been concentrated in the largest cities; Nairobi and
Mombasa contain over 60 percent of all industria'l employment. Several large
towns account for most of the remainder with some agricultural processing and
small-scale industry in rural areas. The urban migration encouraged by this
concentration has resulted in population growth rates in the major towns
almost two and a half times the national rate, i.e., approximately 8 percent
annually compared to 3.4 perzeiT.7- Tfh&imajor force- behind this migration is
the earnings differentials between urban and rural employment, as shown below.
Average African Adult Earnings (1969)
Rural                                   KE per annum
Small farm regular employee                41
Large farm regular employee                73
Smallholder                               113
Urban
Statutory minimum wage (Nairobi)          106
Self-employed informal sector             120
Unskilled employee                        120
Average employee                          250
The fact of high unemployment or underemployment in the cities does not deter
this migration. Thus, past concentrated industrialization has exacerbated ex-
cessive urban population pressures.
31.       Government has responded to these problems of migration and employ-
ment. A number of programs to train skilled workers are now underway with ra-
pid expansions planned. Moreover, current development of estates for industry
in the larger towns should disperse industry from Nairobi and Mombasa. A pro-
gram to develop srall-scale industry in rural areas vrill work toward narrowing
the present wage differentials, further alleviating migratory pressures.



-9-
Management
32.       One of the most serious problems facing Kenya in industrialization
is the scarcity of local entrepreneurs and managers. Much of the private
sector, including industry, is managed by members of the large resident non-
citizen and citizen non-African communities; e.g., in 1970, only 54 percent
of all directors, professionals and executives were citizens and 45 percent
were African. This represents an even greater domination of the sector than
the share of foreign ownership noted below. As foreign investment preempted
many of the large-scale industries, the entrepreneurial opportunities have
been chiefly in the informal urban sector; the returns available there have
not matched those available to skilled industrial employees and managers.
33.       The most prominent program Government has instituted to overcome this
problem is Kenyanization or, more narrowly, Africanization. Recognizing the
need to reconcile equitable treatment of all citizens with industrial growth,
Government has sought to ensure the employment of all qualified Kenyans, re-
taining sufficient expatriates for continued growth. Government periodically
issues a limited number of work permits; a permit is issued only after a
determination that no suitably qualified Kenyan is available for a specific
position. There were some 30,000 permits outstanding in 1970, covering posi-
tions from company director to shop assistant. The reliance on bureaucratic
discretion, however, has inevitably resulted in some difficulties in imple-
menting the program. The resulting economic costs are thought to have caused
some firms to reduce or forego investments in Kenya. In an effort to reduce
these costs, two very broad reforms are under consideration by Government:
first, Kenyanization policies may be strictly codified to facilitate planning
by companies so as to minimize costs; second, work permits might be sold at
prices fixed by Government, thereby encouraging selective, planned Kenyaniza-
tion by incentives rather than direct administrative intervention.
Enterprise and Foreign Private Investment
34.       In 1967, the latest year for which data are available, foreign-owned
firms produced 57 percent of the gross product of the manufacturing sector but
accounted for 73 percent of the total profits in the sector. This dispropor-
tionate share of profits seems to be due to the concentration of foreign-owned
firms in large-scale capital intensive industries. Government's basic policy
continues to encourage foreign investment in industry under the provisions of
the Foreign Investment Protection Act of 1964. The Act provides guarantees
against expropriation and for repatriation of profits, debt service payments
and proceeds on the sale of investments. Such guarantees are available, how-
ever, only to firms receiving "Approved Enterprise" status from the Minister
of Finance. Applications for approval are evaluated by the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, other ministries con-
cerned (such as Agriculture) and interested financial institutions. Although
such criteria as local value added, employment created, foreign exchange savings
and protection demanded are considered, no overall economic analysis is attempted.
A similar procedure is followed in Droviding or disallowing trade protection for



- 10 -
new industrial projects. other incentives are limited to slightly accelerated
depreciation deductions from the 40 percent profits tax.   Additionally, through
the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC), Government has
provided both equity and loani capital to selected ventures.
35.       Some  foreign  private investment  in  recent years   has
gone to highly protected import-substituting industries, chiefly for consumer
goods, with much of the remainder directed to processing of agricultural and
other basic materials. The distortions created by the import-substitution
policy have been discussed above; the processing industries have greatly en-
hanced Kenya's export performance. Industrial policy seems to be shifting,
on the one hand, to encourage backward integration into manufacture of inter-
mediate and capital goods and, on the other, to cirect foreign firms into final
processing and marketing of export products.   Both directions should increase
such firms' contribution to the economy.
36.       Government has tried to foster local ownership within the sector.
Although most of this effort has been directed to trading enterprises, Govern-
ment has established special finance facilities at ICDC for Kenyans to purchase
equity directly in industrial concerns. A mutual fund, established by ICDC,
has provided another vehicle for transfering ownership of existing companies
to local ownership; this fund amounts to over Kn300,)00 and has contributed to
the development of the Nairobi stock exchange.
37.       To stimulate the development of local entrepreneurs, Government has
instituted training programs, provided concessionary finance through ICDC and
is considering the establishment of an industrial extension service.   Moreover
ICDC has undertaken the development of industrial estates in the five largest
towns. These estate schemes include construction of factory buildings, finan-
cing on favorable terms and managerial and technical assistance. ICDC is also pro-
viding capital and management assistance for small-scale rural industrialization.
Financial Institutions
38.       Kenya has a well developed framework of financial institutions which
have been very successful in mobilizing domestic savings. In addition to a
small but growing stock exchange and eleven commercial banks providing mainly
short-term loans for working capital, there are three development finance in-
stitutions providing some term financing for industrial investment.
39.       About 70 companies are registered on the Nairobi Stock Exchange and
the shares of 36 of these are traded regularly.   Most of these companies are
well established and have a history of steady dividend payment. Each year
three or four new issues have been made, some of which were partly underwritten
by the commercial banks or their merchant banking subsidiaries. Few new in-
dustrial projects are financed through issues on the Dcchange, however, as
brokers and buyers prefer a history of profitable performance before accepting
a particular stock,
40.       Among the commercial banks operating in Kenya, the largest are Kenya
Commercial Bank (KCB), Barclay's and Standard Bank. KCB is 60 percent owned



by the Government and 40 percent by Grindley's International. Both Barclay's
and Standard are wholly owned by their parent organizations in the United
Kingdom. These three banks account for over 80 percent of the total assets
and liabilities of the banking system. Although most loans are for less than
one year at rates of 9-10 percent and finance inventories, equipment, spare
parts and exports, the commercial banks sometimes make medium-term loans and
equity investments. KCB and Standard Bank have each set up merchant 'banks,
whose resources consist chiefly of time deposits, yielding 2-3 percent per annum
from institutional investors such as insurance companies and the general
public. The merchant banks occasionally underwrite bond and share issues.
41.       The East African Development Bank (EADB) was established in 1968 by
the three member Governments of the East African Community for financing in-
dustrial projects in the three countries. In order to promote investment in
Tanzania and Uganda, which have less developed industrial sectors than Kenya,
&ADB's charter limits its operations in Kenya to not more than 22.5 percent
of its total operations. Therefore, the bank's ability to invest in Kenya
projects is circumscribed by its ability to invest in projects in Tanzania
and Uganda. As of December 31, 1972, EADB had a net worth of KE7.3 million
and lines of credit available of KL5.5 million, including a loan from IBRD
of US$8 million made in 1972 (Loan No. 843-EA). In the four years from 1969
through 1972, EADB approved investeints-In-7-p- o-jectstofr-  .l-.72 million -inr-
Kenya, of which 11 percent was equity financing and an additional 20 percent,
convertible loans. In addition, it provided ICDC with two loans of KEO.58 mil-
lion to enable ICDC to take equity investment in several new industrial projects.
EADB's average annual approvals for financing Kenya projects has therefore been
about KEO.55 million. EADB currently charges 9 percent interest on its loans.
420       The Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd. (DFCK) was established
in 1963, for the promotion and financing of medium and large industrial enter-
prises in Kenya. Development agencies of Britain, Germany, Holland and
Kenya(ICDC) own DFCK's share capital. As of December 31, 1972, DFCK's resources
consisted of its paid-in share capital of KV2 million and 8 percent income notes
of KE1 million, subscribed in equal proportions by DFCK's four shareholders.
The shareholders are also planning to provide another KE2 million of income
notes. To date DFCK has received all of the resources needed to finance its
operations from its shareholders. DFCK approved 21 projects for KI4 million
during the four-year period from 1969 through 1972 or an average of KEl million
per year, of which about 30 per cent was for equity finance. Its interest
rate on loans has been 9 percent, but it is contemplating increasing this to
9-1/2 percent. DFCK's investment proposals have to be approved by each share-
holder, which makes it basically an instrument of the foreign institutions
which control it.
43.       The Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) is a
statutory corporation which was established in 1955. Besides holding Govern-
ment's investment in DFCK, it has also directly provided finance for large-
scale industrial projects in Kenya. During the four-year period from June 30,
1968 to June 30, 1971, it approved investments of KL2.2 million in 35 new
industrial projects, for an annual average of about KEO.55 million of which
84 percent was for equity finance. Its interest rate on loans has been 8-1/2
percent. ICDC has financed its operations in this field primarily from loans



- 12 -
and grants from Government, which have typically been provided on a project-
by-project basis. It has also received two loans of KEO.58 million from EADB
to finance its equity investments in about ten projects. ICDC's industrial
operations have been hampered by a lack of sufficient resources, and it has
been unable to be more active in providing loans because of the shortage of
funds available to it.
44.       The financing of large-scale industrial projects has, however, only
been a small part of ICDC's total business, accounting for about 25 percent
of its total portfolio of KL9 million.   It has primarily been engaged in pro-
viding loans to small-scale African businessmen, to buy out foreign-owned
retail shops and to assist them to finance other small-scale businesses.
Government currently has under consideration a plan for a substantial expan-
sion of assistance to small-scale business, in which ICDW may participate.
Evaluation and Prospects
45.       In sum, Kenyan industry has performed very well to date, indeed
almost remarkably so, considering the constraints on it. Nevertheless, as
outlined above, distortions in pricing, trade, employment, management and
financial policies have imposed unnecessary costs on both the sector and the
economy. Policy changes to alleviate these constraLnts and to maximize
the contribution of the sector are under consideration by Government and
several are already being implemented.
46.       A significant contribution of the present project would be financing
provided subject to the discipline of strict economic analysis of the individual
ventures. The project would finance large-scale industries which could stimu-
late vertical and horizontal integration within the industrial structure and
provide a base for competitive expcrt. industries. A possible future project
to finance smaller scaile ind-strialization, which would complement the present
one, is under preparation. Together, the two could do much to spur employment
and entrepreneurship in the sector, contributing as well to the dispersion of
industry from the urban centers. The economic appraisal proposed should help
to ensure that the potential benefits of these projects are fully realized.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       A report entitled "Kenya - Appraisal of the Industrial Development
Bank" (No. 221-KE, dated October 31, 1797n) is being circilated' spar-at ly. A
Loan and Project sunmnary is provided in Annex III.
480       As part of the continuing dialogue between Government and the Bank
on the industrial sector, a Bank mission reviewed ICOC's suitability as a
financing vehicle in November 1970. After an extensivle review of ICDC's oper-
ations, the Banik recommended that it establish a subsidiary for financing
medium- and large-scale industrial projects. Govermnent concurred with this
recomiendation, and, during July 1972, Bank staff assisted in planning for the



- 13 -
establishment of the proposed subsidiary. As a result, the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank (IDB) was incorporated in January 1973 and appraised for a Bank loan
in April 1973. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington in
September 1973. IDB and the Kenya Government were represented by Mr. George
M. Matheka, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry;
Messrs. Matu Wamae and Christian Dervichian, Chairman of the Board and General
Manager, respectively, of IDB; and Mr. C. S. Mbindyo, Undersecretary of the
Treasury.
Background
49.      The Bank group has been discussing the possibilities of support to
Kenyan industry with the Government since 1965. Given the size of Kenya's indus-
trial sector, the high economic costs of scarce management talent and the rela-
tively well-developed financial system, one of the primary issues has been how
existing institutions could be restructured to meet the needs of large-scale
industry. As noted previously, EADB has been limited in its operations in Kenya
by the differential formula requiring it to distribute its investments among the
Community Partner States; thus, in Kenya it is constrained by its ability to
generate projects in Tanzania and Uganda. DFCK, although a valuable source of
foreign contacts and finance, is subject to the direct control of three external
agencies; hence, it is not thought to be a suitable vehicle for increasing
Kenyan ownership in the industrial sector.   Lending to ICDO directly seemed
inappropriate for several reasons. First, a very substantial part of ICDC's
operations involves the transfer of small retail and industrial businesses from
non-citizens to Kenyans, inevitably enmeshing it in sensitive social and political
policies. Consequently, ICDC operates more as a governmental department than as
an autonomous financial intermediary. Second, as practically all of ICDC's re-
sources consist of loans and grants from the Government, provided on a project-
by-project basis, it lacks financial autonomy as well. Third, ICDC has been in-
creasingly concentrating on promoting the development of small-scale industry,
rural and urban, through various small loans programs and the industrial estates
scheme described previously. Indeed, investments of more than Kl20,000 by ICDC
in industrial firms comprise less than 25 percent of ICDC's portfolio and
only some 4 percent of its 600-plus investments. Combining support for small
businesses and large-scale industry, it was felt that the former would be
slighted in ICDC's work.
50.       As ICDC has previously established specialized subsidiaries, it was
decided, therefore, to create 1DB as a separate entity with an independent manage-
ment and financial autonomy to promote and finance medium- and large-scale indus-
try. The division of responsibilities between ICDC and IDB is spelled out in a
Promotion Agreement between ICDC and the Government. While ICDC will retain its
three-man projects department and will maintain supervision of its existing large-
scale industrial investments, it will not finance any industrial project with a
total capital cost of more than K150,000 unless IDB has decided not to invest
in such a project or has decided to invest Jointly with ICDO. Thus, IDB will
supersede and supplement ICDC, rather than duplicate it; the two will be comple-
mentary institutions.



Capital
51.       The initial subscribed share capital. of 1DB is K12 million, of which
Kf500,000 was paid in by J.une 30, 1973, the balance to be paid in three annual
installments of Kg500,000 each by June 1976.  The Government of Kenya will
directly own 49 percent of the shares and ICDC will hold the majority 51 percent.
Lending Policy
52.       IDB's operations will be guided by a Policy Statement which was
drafted in consultation with the Bank and adopted by IDB's Board of Directors
in February 1973. It conforms to policy statements adopted by other development
finance companies. The Policy Statement permits IDB to finance industrial en-
terprises including mining, agro-industries and engineering enterprises, but
excludes financing of purely trading, real estate and farming activities.
While the policy statement dioes not preclude IDB from financing tourist projects,
it is expected that this field will be left primarily to the Government-owned
Kenya Tourist Development Corporation. IDB's minimum investment will be
KL20,000 in projects whose t.otal cost exceeds Kr50,000; any smaller investments
will be made by ICDC directly.  Conversely, the Policy Statement sets a maximum
total investment in an enternrise of 20 percent of the bank's subscribed share
capital and reserves, equival.ent to K1400,000 at the outset, not to exceed
50 percent of a project's total cost, IDB will not acquire controlling equity
interests, holding no rnore than 49 percent of an enterprise's share capital;
moreover, any single equity investment will be limited to 10 percent of IDB s
share capital and reserves. In total., IDB expects equity holdings will com-
prise 25 percent of its port.folio, not to exceed the sum of its own subscribed
share capital and reserves.
53.       In furtherance of the normal commitment to undertake only those pro-
jects which are technically feasible, financially viable and economically
sound, IDB will carry out a thorough economi.c analysis of each project it
considers. While some evaluations have been performed in the past by the
Government, they have not been systematically complete. Most important, by
considering msch factors  as the expected profitability of a project at world
prices and the project's relative capital/labor intensities and employment
effects: .IDB!s analys6s should help to correct some of the structural distor-
tions in Kenrya's industrial. sector and to maximize the contribution of its
projects to the economy.
On-len.di.g Tormis
54e        IDB will charge an interest rate of at least 9 percent, de sndin1
or pre-aI ling term loan rates tn Kenya. Initially, IDB hope to be able to
charge 9½1 percent.  This is in line with rates charged by DFCK and EADB; the
former does not pass on. the foreign exchange risk to its borrowers while the
latter does.  In order to enable IDB to compete effectively with DFCK as well
as to reflect more nearly the world market cost of capital, to allocate its
funds more effectively within the economy and to protect its financial via-
bility, IDB and Government have agreed that the bank's borrowers will either
accept the full foreign exchange risk or accept the risk of fluctuations
between the Kenya shilling and the US dollar, to which the shilling is tied,
while Government will cover fluctuations between the US dollar and the



- 15 -
currencies in which the proposed Bank loan is actually disbursed. IDB will,
in most cases, try to pass the full risk to subborrowers; it will, however,
retain the flexibility to offer the second option where financial, economic
or competitive conditions warrant. As subborrowers are familiar with the US
dollar and as their risk is limited, this risk-sharing arrangerment should be
acceptable to them; Government does not intend to charge a fee in those cases
where it takes part of the risk. Subloan repayment periods would be up to 15
years; amortization of the Bank loan would conform substantially to the aggre-
gate of such repayments.
Business Prospects
55.       The share capital of KE2 million and the proposed Bank- loan of US$5
million (K11.7 million) will comprise IDB's initial resDurces. Referrals from
ICDC give IDB a pipeline of some 20 projects. Based on this backlog and pro-
jected new industrial projects, IDB could commit over KE3 million (US$8.7
million?) by mid-1975, mobilizing funds from other sources, for investments
totalling an estimated KE9 million (US$26.1 million). In addition to
investors' contributions, sources for additional long-tenn finance will include
ICDC and DFCK; commercial banks will provide working capital. IDB's share capital
will cover the estimated 25 percent of its commitments (US$2.2 million) to be
invested in equities as well as the local cost financing required. As the bulk
of the loan amounts will be for imports, the proposed Bank loan of US$ S million
will cover IDB's foreign exchange requirements over the next two years. IDB is
projected to show small initial losses which will not impair its equity base; it
is-sexpe'cte to show profits Eiom its second year onwards.  IDB's debt/equity ratio
is not expected to exceed 1.5:1 during this period, well within the 3:1 ratio
allowed in   8  oSr4^wet
Board of Directors
56.       IDB's Board includes the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of
Finance and Planning and of Commerce and Industry, as well as the Executive
Director of ICDC, as ex-officio Directors, and four Directors appointed for a
three-year term from outside the Government of Kenya having extensive kniowledge
of and proven ability in industry. ICDC's Executive Director, arn experienced
Kenyan, has been appointed Chairman of the Board of IDB.
Staff
57.       The Government and the Bank agreed during the preparation of the
project that at this moment there was no Kenyan available with the required
experience to fill the chief executive position. Consequently, Goverm'ent
approached UNDP, with Bank support, for assistance in recruiting and finan-
cing the General Manager and the adviser to the Chief of Operations. As both
serve crucial training functions, especially with regard to project economic
analysis, UNDP has agreed to provide support to IDB for them. An experienced
Kenyan has been selected as Chief of Operations; he and the adviser took
up their duties in October. The General Manager started in April 1973.
58.       Other professional staff include a senior project officer, two
junior project officers, an engineer, and a chief accountant. This staffing
is expected to be adequate for IDB'S initial forecast business of about 10
projecta a year. IDB has agreed to hire these professionals by March 31, 1974;
until they are recruited, IODC's project, accounting and secretarial staff are
aasisting IDB. Experienced independent auditors have been appointed.



- 16 -
Bank Loan
59.       The proposed Bank loan would be on terms similar to those for other
development finance companies. Since IDB has been in operation for only a
short time, it has not had a chance to build up its portfolio. Therefore, as
is usual with new development banks, it is proposed that the Bank's commitment
charge accrue only from the respective dates on which various sub-projects are
authorized by the Bank. Prior Bank appproval would be necessary for each sub-
project requiring Bank funds in excess of $200,000 and the aggregate free
limit would be $1 million. The proposed loan would be restricted to financing
the estimated foreign exchange component of goods and services needed for in-
vestments supported by IDB.. Procurement would be through normal trade channels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the pro-
posed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans to development finance
companies.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOM4ENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan,
Robert S. McNamara
President
by:
S. Aldewereld
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 7, 1973



Annex 
Page 1 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - KEf;YA
AREA       2/             POPULATION                                               DENSITY
So2,647 knrrr            12.1million (mid-1972)                    Vverall average: 20 per km2
Rate of Growth:  3.3' (from 1965to 1971 ) 2ural range  1 to 300 per ks2' f arable land
Arable Land:      122 per
POPULATION CHtARACTERISTICS (1969)                                HEALTH (1972)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)               50                     Population per medical practitioner       6,068
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)               17                     Population per hospital bed (excl. Nairobi) 841
E;xpectation of life at birth: male       47
female      51
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1969)                                        DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (1969) (Arable Land)
% of national income, highest quintile      5*                    % owned by top 107% of owners                 50
lowest quintile     6o*                     % owned by smallest 107, of owners            1
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER (1971)                                      ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1973)
% of population - urban                    93                     % of population - urban
- rural                     9                                     - rural                        1
NUTRITION                                                         EDUCATION (1972)
Calorie intake as % of requirements        ..                     Adult literacy rate %                         30",,*
Per capita protein intake                                         Primary school enrollment %                   70%
1/
GNP PER CAPITA in 1972    US $ 170
GROSS NATIONAL. PRODUCT IN 1972                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Constant 1964 Prices)
US $ Mln.       %                      1960-65          1970-72
GNP at Market Prices         1,964        100.0                       6.7             6.8
Gross Domestic Investment      473         24.1                      13.7            10.8
Gross National Saving          403         20.5                       5.8             6.8
Current Account Balance        -70         -3.6                      .
Exports of Goods, NFS          598         30.4                       4.2            -1.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          522        26.6                        8.2             1.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1969
2/
Value Added                       Labor Force-                  V. A. Per Worker
US-$ Mln.     7,                   Mln.        %                   US $         %
Agriculture                    419     34                    4.3         84                   104         240
Industry
Services                    ) 880       66                  ) 0.8         16                 1,100        423
Unallocated
Total/Average            1329     lOO.0                  5.1       100.0                 260        100.-O
GOVERNMENT FINANCE 
General Government'~ Central Government
( K    Mln.)    of MonetarY GDP( KE                Mln.) 5 .f Monetar  GDP
1971/72      l9717I2 1967-70                1971/72     1971/72 I19b-Y(j
Current Receipts                     158.1        34.7      23.6                  141.2       31.0    20.2
Current Expenditure                  134.2    29    .5      22.1                   l_         2$..8   IZ..
Current Surplus                       23.9         5.2       1.5                   22.7        5.2     2.7
Capital Expenditures                  63.3        13.9       6.6                   53.8       11.8     6.1
External Assistance (net)               -           -         -                    9.4         2.1     1.5
1/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is at 1970 market prices, calculated by the same conversion
techniques as the 1972 World Atlas.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ Central and Local Government only           .. not available
not applicable
* very crude estimate



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
COUNTRY DATA - KITYA
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                        1966         1969        1970         1971         1972
(Million KE-outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                           9h           138        176          189          215
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    *-             5          7           16           26
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   52            66         87          111          124
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               22.6          26.6       30.5         30.0         33.2
General Price lndex (1963 = 100)               100.5         101.7      107.6        111.2        116.8
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                              0.7           1.7        2.8          3.3          5.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                      .
Bank credit to Private Sector                    6.9           8.3       31.8         27.6         11.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE l964-;o)
19614     1970     1971     1972                                        US $ Mln     %
(Millions IIS $)-
Coffee                                116      29.1
Exports of Goods, NFS            3314     466       1470     522     Tea                                    62      15.6
Imports of Goods, NFS            286      549       621     598      Petroleum Products                    141      10.3
Resource GaP (deficit = -)       [48       -83     -151       Z      Sisal                                  21       5.3
Meat                                   19       14.8
Interest Payments (net)                                              PyAethrum                              lo       4.cs
Workers' Remittances                                                   All other commodities               123     310.9
Other Factor Payments (net)       213 -26             9      -28
Net Transfers                     36        20       25       314    EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1972
Balance on Current Account         °       -36     -152      -70
US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment         ..        42       4B       46
Net MLT Borrowing                 .45                32      [45       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                353
Disbursements                  ..       ..                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                            8..Total outstanding & Disbursed                                         353
Subtotal                        3       87        80      91                                  1/
Capital Grants                         .         .                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1972-
Other Capital (net)               16        2         2       -2                                                   %
Other items n.e.i                -2        -1 
Increase in Reserves (+)           8         7      -80      28        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              14.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30. 1973 (IIS$ mi11inn):
Through hMarcn 1973                                                                                    IBRD         IDA
US $ 1.00 = KSh7.14
1.00 = US $ 2.80                                           Outstanding & Disbursed                [47.2       53.9
Undisbursed                           69.7         3L.8
Since June 30. 1973                                              Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        115.9
US $ 1.00   KSh6.9 (central rate)
1.00 = US $2.8985
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
October 31, 1973
July 18, 1972
EPD/PRD



Annex IA
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at September 30, 1973
US$ millions
Loan or                                                       Amount (less Cancellations)
Credit No.     Year      Borrower          Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Nine (9) loans and credits fully disbursed                      8.62   36.30       -
119         1968      Kenya      Tea Development                     2.10      1.98
129         1968      Kenya      Livestock Development              -3.60       .99
639         1969      Kenya      Highways                   23.50              1.62
641         1969      Kenya      Forest Plantations          2.60              1.35
185         1970      Kenya      Education                           6.10      4.25
714         1970      NCC        Water Supply          .     8.30              4.o6
224         1970      Kenya      Road Maintenance                   12.60      3.22
745         1971      TRDC       Hydroelectric Development 23.00               8.98
276         1972      Kenya       Highway                           22.00     18.67
826         1972      Kenya      Nairobi Airport            29.00             24.69
344         1972      Kenya      Agriculture Credit                  6o00      5.70
932         1973      Kenya2/    Highways                  29.00              29.00
Total                                         124.02    88.7
of which has been repaid                      6.65      -
Total now outstanding                        .117.37    88.j
Amount sold                      4.81
of which has been repaid       4.31            .50     -
Total now held by Bank & IDA                  116.87 1 88.7-
Total Undisbursed                              69.70    34.81    104.51
- Prior to Exchange Adjustment
?/Loan signed September 6, 1973; not yet effective
B.  Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at September 30, 1973
Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligor              Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1968 & 1973  Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels              5.1     0.8     5.9
1970    PanAfrican Paper Mills       Pulp and Paper     10.6     4.1    14.7
1972    Tourism Promotion Services  Hotels               2.4      _      2.4
Total Gross Comm$tments                         18.1     4.9    23.0
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           5.9      9      6.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC               12.2      4.0   16.2
Total Undisbursed                                6.6     0.9



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
C. Projects in Execution-,/
Credit 105 - Agricultural Credit; $3.6 million Credit of May 11,
1967; Closing Date: June 30, 1973. Project implementation was initially
delayed because of problems in recruiting and retaining satisfactory manage-
ment and adequate staff. Recruitment and retention of suitable staff on a
long term basis continues to be a problem. This problem has in particular
led to accounting backlogs. Steady progress is however being made. Dis-
bursement was completed by Closing Date.
Credit 119 - Tea Development; $2.1 million Credit of June 17, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1973.   This project is a continuation of the pro-
ject financed under Credit No. -4-KE. KTDA has carried out its expansion pro-
gram under the project with 1minimalrecourse to the funds provided under the
credit because its revenues were greater and its costs lower than anticipated.
Under this project 35,000 acres were to be planted over the period 1968-1973,
but this program was accelerated and planting has been completed. The balance
is expected to be cancelled,
Credit 129 - Livestock Development; $3.6 million Credit of September
26, 1968; Closing Date:  December 31, 1973.  A Swedish Credit of the same
amount has also been made for this project.   Initial implementation was slow
in part because of the project's pioneering nature, for which Kenya had little
prior experience. Progress on project execution has improved greatly during
the past two years,,and all funds for ranch development have been committed. It
is expected that the bulk of the credit will be disbursed by the present Closing
Date, and disbursements completed by June 30, 197h.
Loan 639 - Highways; $23.5 million Loan of October 10, 1969; Closing
Date:   December 31, 1973.  ConstruLction is substantially completed,except for
two contracts which have been delayed by changes in specifications and con-
struction standards. These delays will require a postponement of the Closing
Date to June 30, 1975,  Th¢--e has been a 30 percent increase above original
cost estimates due mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation; $2.6 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
L1,sjngDate: December 31,_      ,  Progress is generally satisfactory and at
the present rate of disbursement, the loan will be fully drawn down before
Closing Date. Planting and technical aspects are satisfactory. As preparation
of a second phase project is iuider way, the Ministry of Natural Resources is
seeking to fill the post of Project Accountant which has been vacant for several
months.
1/These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



Annex II
Page 3 of 4
Credit 185 - Education; $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1975.  Construction is proceeding at a slower rate than anti-
cipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected that all project
institutions except two will be completed prior to the December 1974 project
completion date; the remaining school for which the Government is proposing
modifications is expected to be completed about July 1975, six months prior to
the December 31, 1975 Closing Date.
Loan 714 - Water Supply; $8.3 million Loan of November 7, 1969;
Closing Date:R March 31, 19757 Construction is lagging about five months
behind schedule. This delay is not expected to lengthen so that project com-
pletion is expected in April 1974. The Water and Sewerage Department is ex-
periencing serious staffing shortages in its engineering and commercial sec-
tions due to inability to attract and retain staff, The Government and City
Council have agreed on urgent remedial action.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance; $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1975. Project is proceeding satisfactorily. All
designated posts in the MOW have been filled. Most of the equipment has been
installed and the Highway Training Center is operational.
Loa 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric; $23.0 million Loan of June 7,
1971; Closing Date: June 30,757.     The project has slipped during the last
six months,and completion is likely to be as much as six months behind the
original scheduled date of February 1974.   This should still permit beginning
commercial operations by November 1974 -- the start of the rainy season. Costs
have increased by about 7 percent due principally to the last US dollar devalua-
tion and increased costs of consultants services as the construction period
lengthened.
Credit 276 - Highways; $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972; Closing
Date: March 31, 1976. This project,pwhich is jointly financed by a Swedish
Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to delays in obtaining govern-
mental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices, overall costs
of the project show a 10 percent increase.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport; $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976.   The major contracts have been awarded and work has
commenced. Efforts to strengthen the managerial structure have started more
slowly. The Bank is cooperating with UNDP in seeking a financial manager to
help establish commercial accounting systems.
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit; $6.0 million Credit of November 29,
1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1976. This Credit was declared effective March 2,
1973. The Agricultural Finance Gorporation has started a second phase of lending
operations, following the completion of the first under Credit 105. Consultants
for an agricultural credit study are being selected.
Loan 932 - Highways; $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.   This Loan is not yet effective.    Invitations to bid
will be issued shortly.



Annex II
Page 4 of 4
D. Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed by
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as at September 30, 1973
(US$ million)
Amount less Cancellations
Loan No.    Year    Borrower         Purpose               Bank      Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                75.0
638-E,A    1969    EA.HC       Harbors                    35.0          14.5
67h-EA     1970    EARC        Railways                   42.4          24.4
675-EA     1970    EAPTC       Telecommunications         10.4           3.7
843-EA     1972    EADB        Development Finance         8.0           8.0
865-EA     1972    EAHC        Harbors                    26.5          25.0
914-EA     1973    EAPTC       Telecommunications         32.5          32.5
Total                                         229.8         108.1
of which has been repaid                     24.1
Total now outstanding                         205.7
Amount sold                    24.4
of which has bee repaid     22.5              1.9
Total now held by Bank                        203.81/
Total Undisbursed                                            108.1
-  Prior to exchange adjustment



Annex III
Page 1 of 2
K EN Y A
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROW:                      Industrial Development Bank
GUARANTOR:                   Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                       Us$5.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                       Repayable substantially in conformity with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules for
sub-loans and investments for which withdrawals
from the loan account are approved or requested;
interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum; commitment
charge of 3/4 of one percent on the amount of
each sub-loan to accrue as from their various
dates of approval by the Bank.
RELENDING TERMS:              IDB would relend at an interest rate of at
least 9 percent per annum for up to 15 years.
The exchange risk would be either assumed fully
by subborrowers_or shared between IDSB's
borrowers and the Government.
PURPOSE:                      To meet IDB's financial requirements for the
financing of the foreign exchange component of
large- and medium-scale industrial projects
through 1975.
FINAL DATE FOR
PROJECT SUBMISSIONS:         March 31, 1976
FREE LIMIT:                  $200,000 for individual sub-projects; $1.0 million
aggregate limit.
DEBT COVENANTS:               Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
Calendar year          1974    1975     1976     1977
US$ million             0.7      2.8     1.4      0.1
PROCUREMENT:                  Through normal commercial channels.
APPRAISAL REPORT:             Report No. 221-KE, dated October 31, 1973.
DFC Department, AfricA Division



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Year ending December 31           1973     197h      1975     1976     1977
(in KU 000)
Projected Commitments:
Loans                            225    1,050    1,175     1,300    1,400
Equity                            75      360       405      430      470
Total                 300      4 1 0  1,580     1,730    1,870
Projected Income Statements:
Total revenue                     24       93       181      278      383
Financial and adminis-
trative expenses                 3      100      165       2h3      324
Provisions                        -        -         -         4       20
Income tax                        -        -         -         8       12
Ne-t income                   (    19)       7)      16       23       27
As a % of net worth            -        -       0.8      1.2      1.3
Projected Balance Sheets:
Current asse,s                   888    1,046     1,266      982      691
Investments                      190    1,163    2,450     3,861    5,285
E'ixed assets                     18       15        12       10        9
Total assets        1,096    2,224    3,728     4 853    5,985
Current liabilities               -         22      128      245      376
Long-term debt                   115       728    1,610    2,595    3,569
Net worth                        981    1744      1,990    2,013    2,040
Total liabilities
and net worth                , 096   2   4,85
Debt/equity ratio              0.1/1    0.5/1     0.8/1    1.3/1    1.7/1



