LOAN NUMBER 1240 GR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Highway Project)
between
THE HELLENIC STATE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1976 between THE HELLENIC STATE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
IL


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gene-
ral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower;
(b) "MCP" means the Ministry of Coordination and Planning
of the Borrower; and
(c) "Secretariat" means the unit of MCP referred to in para-
graph (i) of Section 4.05 of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose; all Parts of
the Project shall be carried out through MPW with the exception
of Part C (2) which shall be carried out through MCP.
(b) With respect to the Parts of the Project to be carried
out through MPW, the Borrower shall appoint a Project Coordinator
in MPW, not later than September 30, 1976 or such other date as
the Borrower and the Bank shall agree, whose duties shall be inter
alia to ensure coordination between the Borrower's agencies con-
cerned with these Parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and to the
Bank.
(b) Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall,
not later than December 31, 1976 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree, employ consultants for the carrying out
of: (i) Part C (1) (a) of the Project; and (ii) Part (C) (1) (b)
of the Project. The consultants referred to in sub-paragraph (ii)
above, shall be responsible to the Director of Road and Bridge


﻿-6-
Design of MPW and shall assist in the preparation of the terms of
reference, selection and supervision of the consultants whose ser-
vices are provided under Part E of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, prior to the start of con-
struction of the road included in Part A of the Project, make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the supervision of such
construction.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, prior to the award of the
fellowships included in Part D of the Project, forward to the Bank
for its approval a list of MPW candidates, together with detailed
proposed training programs.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods, works and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
Part A of the Project and shall furnish t-o the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to Part A of the Project.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as
security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes that, ex-
cept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on commercial goods to
secure a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred and to be paid out of the proceeds
of sale of such commercial goods; or (iv) any lien upon real estate
or other property in Greece or revenues or receipts in the currency
of the Borrower, if such lien is given by a political subdivision


﻿-9-
or by an agency of a political subdivision of the Borrower under
arrangements or circumstances which would not result in priority
in the allocation or realization of foreign exchange.
(d) As used in this Section. the term "governmental assets"
includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any agency of any
such political subdivision or of the Bank of Greece or of any other
institution performing the functions of a central bank.
(e) If the Borrower, because of constitutional or other
legal provisions, shall be unable to make the foregoing effective
with respect to any lien on any assets of a political subdivision
or agency of a political subdivision, the Borrower, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the Bank an equivalent
lien or equivalent priority in the allocation or realization of
foreign exchange, as the case may be, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all paved national
roads of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause neces-
sary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
established engineering practices; (ii) cause all road maintenance
equipment, workshops and spare parts of the Borrower to be adequately


﻿- 10 -
maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to
be made, all in accordance with appropriate established engineering
practices; (iii) provide promptly as needed, the funds, staff,
facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing;
and (iv) take all measures to establish a service within MPW to be
responsible inter alia for ca,:rying out the duties referred to in
(i) and (ii) of this Section and more specifically set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause MPW: (i) to consult
and exchange views with the Bank with respect to the recommendations
of the consultants provided under Part C (1) of the Project;
and (ii) to put into effect such recommendations in respect of its
road management and operations as the Borrower and the Bank shall
agree.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) establish a Transport
Coordination Committee assisted by a permanent unit of MCP (the
Secretariat), organized and with resnonsibilities as set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) provide promptly as needed, the
funds, staff, facilities, services and other resources required
for the foregoing; (iii) require the Secretariat to evaluate by
December 31, 1978 or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank
shall agree, the capabilities it has developed and prepare recom-
mendations for such further action as is deemed necessary for
such Transport Coordination Committee to carry out its functions;
and (iv) put into effect any such recommendations as the Borrower
and the Bank shall agree after consultation and exchange of views.
(M


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the service within MPW referred to in paragraph (iv)
of Section 4.03 of this Agreement has been duly established and
adequately staffed as set forth in paragraph l.A of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; and
(b) that the Transport Coordination Committee and the
Secretariat referred to in paragraph (i) of Section 4.05 of this
Agreement have been duly established.
Section 5.02. The date September 24, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance
Athens, Greece
With a copy to:
The Ministry of Coordination
and Planning
Athens, Greece
Telex address:
216326 YSYNGR
Athens, Greece
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE HELLENIC STATE
By /s/ Menelaos Alexandrakis
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-14 -                                     1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                12,300,000         34% (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(2) Equipment and spare        11,300,000         100% of foreign
parts                                        expenditures and
100% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(3) Consultants' ser-           3,200,000         100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(4) Fellowships                   500,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 2,700,000
TOTAL      30,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if
the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or in-
creases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or de-
crease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of


﻿- 16-
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
41


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Construction of the Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia road (about
100 km), in accordance with the design standards spe-
cified in Annex I to this Schedule, as such Annex may
be amended from time to time with the agreement of
the Bank.
Part B:   Provision of road maintenance and workshop equipment and
spare parts for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in
the routine maintenance of paved national roads, all as
in more detail set forth in Annex II to this Schedule,
as such Annex may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank.
Part C:   A program of technical assistance:
(1) to MPW, for tha provision of consultants' services
for: (a) road maintenance and minor improvements
and road maintenance planning procedures; and (b)
organization, supervision, coordination and evalu-
ation of studies included in Part E of the Project.
(2) to MCP, for the provision of consultants' services
for the establishment of the modus operandi and
initial activities of the Secretariat to the Trans-
port Coordination Committee.


﻿-18 -
Part D:   About 240 man-months of short-term fellowships abroad
for senior and middle management MPW staff in specialized
aspects of road management and operations.
Part E:   Feasibility studies of selected road projects, all as
in more detail set forth in Annex III to this Schedule,
with the provision of consultants' services.
* P  i                                       *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 19 -
ANNEX I TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Patras-Pyrgos-Olympia Road
Design Element                     Terrain
Patras-Pyrgos Section         Flat                 Rolling
Design Speed (km/h)                  80                    80
Lane Width (m)                        3.75                  3.75
Lanes (No)                            2                     2
Paved Shoulder Width (m)              2.00                  2.00
Unpaved Shoulder Width (m)
Guard railed                    1.25                  1.25
Fills (2.5 m                    0.50                  0.50
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)       250                   250
Maximum Gradient (%)                  5                     6
Minimum Sight Distance (m)          110                   110
Equivalent Single Axle Load (tons)             8.0
Equivalent Right-of-way Acquisition
Width (m)                                   30
Development Line Restriction
Width (m)                                   60
Pavement Type                     Asphalt wearing course and base,
crushed stone lower base and
sub-base.
Structures:    Carriageway Width (m)         12.50
Sidewalk Width (m)              0.75
Loading Standard         Cl 60 (DIN 1072)
Pyrgos-Olympia Section
Design Speed (km/h)                   -                    70
Lane Width (m)                       -                      3.50
Lanes (No)                            -                     2
Unpaved Shoulder Width (m)
Guard railed                    -                     1.75
Fills < 2.5 m                   -                     1.00
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)         -                   200
Maximum Gradient   )                  -                     6
Minimum Sight Distance (m)            -                    90
Passing Sight Distance (m)            -                   450
Equivalent Single Axle Load (tons)             8.0
Minimum Right-of-way
Acquisition Width (m)                       30


﻿- 20 -
Design Element                     Terrain
Pyrgos-Olympia Section        Flat                  Rolling
Development Line Restriction
Width (m)                                   60
Pavement Type                      Asphalt wearing course and base,
crushed stone lower base and
sub-base
Structures:    Carriage Width (m)              9.50
Sidewalk Width (m)              0.75
Loading Standard         Cl 60 (DIN 1072)


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX II TO SCHEDULE 2
Equipment Included in Part
B of the Project
Item                                                   Number
Road Patching Trucks with Equipment (100 hp)              33
Dump Trucks (6 ton)                                     100
Graders (100 hp)                                         22
Wheeled Tractor Loaders with Backhoe (50 hp)              60
Vibrating Hand Compactors (5 hp with 1600 sq. cm
plate)                                                    38
Vibrating Tandem Rollers (0.6 m width 3000 c/min.
5 hp)                                                    38
Snow Removers (800 t/hr. 2.1 m band width turbine
blowers)                                                  8
Snow Removers (1800 t/hr. 2.9 m band width turbine
blowers)                                                  10
Drawn Grass Movers (1.22 m rotary)                        22
Self-propelled Roadline Markers (150 hp 2 strip
cold paint applicators)            .                     12
Self-propelled Road Sweepers (100 hp 1.5 m width)        12
Double Cab Pick-up Vehicles (60 hp)                      70
Workshop Pick-up Vehicles (100 hp with mobile
workshop)                                                12
Compressors (50 hp, 4o0 lt/min)                         20
Ladder Platform Trucks (overhead lighting)
(16 m elevation)                                         10


﻿- 22 -
ANNEX III TO SCHEDULE 2
Feasibility Studies
The feasibility studies under Part E of the Project will in-
clude the following selected projects:
(i) the Cambos Despoti-Metsovon-Votonosi section of
the national highway from Kozani to loannina;
(ii) an improved highway connection between Corinth
and Kalamata via Tripolis; and
(iii) feeder roads linking villages in the Klidi agri-
cultural area near Alexandria to the national
road network.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1980                                      850,000
April 1, 1981                                         885,000
October 1, 1981                                      925,000
April 1, 1982                                        965,000
October 1, 1982                                    1,005,000
April 1, 1983                                      1,050,000
October 1, 1983                                    1,090,000
April 1, 1984                                      1,140,000
October 1., 1984                                   1,185,000
April 1, 1985                                      1,240,000
October 1, 1985                                    1,290,000
April 1, 1986                                      1,345,000
October 1, 1986                                    1,400,000
April 1, 1987                                      1,460,000
October 1, 1987                                    1,525,000
April 1, 1988                                      1,590,000
October 1, 1988                                    1,655,000
April 1, 1989                                      1,725,000
October 1, 1989                                    1,800,000
April 1, 1990                                      1,875,000
October 1, 1990                                    1,955,000
April 1, 1991                                      2,045,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿I 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods and works
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   With respect to contracts for civil works:
(a) Bidders shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(b) For bidding purposes, construction work for the Patras-
Pyrgos-Olympia road shall be divided into four sections: Patras-
Lappa, Lappa-Pinios, Pinios-Pyrgos and Pyrgos-Olympia. Bids for
all sections shall be called simultaneously. Bidders may bid for
one or more of such sections, and contracts shall be awarded on
the basis of the lowest evaluated bid for any possible combination
of such sections.
B.   Contracts for equipment and spare parts included in Part B
of the Project estimated to cost not more than $25,000 equivalent
each may, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, be
awarded in accordance with the procurement procedures of the Borrower
in effect on the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 26 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Greece may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pre-
ference and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Greece if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value


﻿- 27 -
added in Greece equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Greece.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.


﻿- 28 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequal-
ification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of more than $25,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the


﻿-29-
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be in-
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to sending to the Bank the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Responsibilities of the
Road Maintenance Service and the Transport
Coordination Committee and Secretariat.
Feasibility Studies
1.   Road Maintenance Service
The Borrower's road maintenance will be reorganized in several
phases.
A.   Initial Phase
The service within MPW, referred to in Section 4.03 (iv)
of this Agreement, will be under the responsibility of the
appropriate Director of MPW. This Director will organize and
supervise the development and operation of the service as
well as supervise the consultants' services provided under
Part C (1) (a) of the Project. Under the guidance of this
Director, the Superintending Engineers of the Regional Offices
of the MPW will be responsible through their District Engi-
neers for carrying out the day-to-day activities of the ser-
vice. At the central, regional and district levels, the
service shall have staff appointed solely for its use.
The service will be responsible for the routine mainten-
ance of paved national roads, which is defined as follows: re-
instatement works on patching, shoulders, side slopes to cuts
and fills and drains; clearance of drains, culverts and struc-
tures; repair to structures and culverts, road markings, signs,


﻿-31-
markers and safety devices; control of vegetation, erosion
and silting; road intersections and street lighting; and emer-
gency action on snow clearance, landslides and flooding. To
enable the service to carry out routine maintenance on paved
national roads, the following minimum number of staff will
be appointed at the various levels of the service: 30 engineers,
140 technical road staff, 36 mechanical staff, 60 administrative
staff, 400 equipment operators and drivers, and laborers as
necessary to support the above mentioned staff.
For the purposes of Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement,
in addition to the designation of the appropriate Director
of MPW referred to above, 8 engineers, 14 technical road
staff, 3 mechanical staff and 9 administrative staff out of
the staff mentioned above, will be appointed.
Initially, the service will be supported by the consult-
tants provided under Part C (1) (a) of the Project whose ser-
vices will be inter alia to assist the service and MPW in:
(i) advising MPW on the deployment and operation of the road
maintenance equipment provided under the Project and on the
force account organization and implementation of routine main-
tenance of paved national roads; (ii) providing a plan for the
efficient maintenance of roads in Greece and five-year programs
of rehabilitation and maintenance works; (iii) providing pro-
posals for the service to update and execute such plan; and
(iv) providing a program for the development of the service
and its training requirements, and assisting in drawing up
standard documentation and procedural statements.


﻿-32                                      1
B.   In subsequent phases, the objectives of the Borrower will
be to expand the activities of the service to carry out by force
account maintenance and minor improvement works on all national and
provincial roads and required planning thereof. The activities of
the service will be further defined and implemented on the basis
of the recommendations by the consultants referred to in paragraph
A above.
2.   Feasibility Studies
The Director of Road and Bridge Design of MPW will organize
and supervise the carrying out of the feasibility studies under
Part E of the Project, including the supervision of the consultants'
services provided under Part C (1) (b) and Part E of the Project.
3.   Transport Coordination Committee and Secretariat
The main objective of the Transport Coordination Committee
referred to in Section 4.05 (i) of this Agreement is to improve the
administration of the transport sector in the Borrower's country.
The responsibilities of such Committee will be to advise the Minister
of MCP on investment priorities in the transport sector and on
transport policies which may require legislative action. Its members
will include a Director General, or equivalent-ranking official, of
each of the Borrower's Ministries and agencies responsible for the
transport sector, inter alia: Coordination and Planning, Public
Works, Merchant Marine, Transport and Communications, Civil Avia-
tion Authority, Ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, and Railways. The
Transport Coordination Committee will be chaired by one of its
members to be appointed by the Minister of MCP. It will be assisted


﻿- 33 -
in its work by the Secretariat headed by a senior official duly
appointed. The head of the Secretariat will also act as secretary
(rapporteur) to the Committee. The Committee shall meet as required,
but at least once every three months.
In addition to the senior official referred to above, the
Secretariat will be initially and promptly staffed with at least
four full-time specialists in the technical, economic, financial
and legal aspects of the various transport modes. Under the instruc-
tions and supervision of the Committee, the Secretariat will, on
the basis of the elements and procedures to be formulated as set
forth hereunder and in accordance with its capabilities as stren-
gthened during its first two years of existence, initiate systematic
planning in the transport sector, including but not limited to,
survey of transport conditions, needs and regulations and provi-
sion of analysis of transport investments and policies in order
to ensure that they are responsive to the economic development of
the Borrower's country and the priorities in the transport sector.
During its first two years of existence, the Secretariat will
be supported by the consultants provided for under Part C (2) of
the Project whose services will be inter alia to assist the Sec-
retariat, and strengthen its capabilities, in:
(a) the review of all recent studies, current policies and
plans of Greece relating to the transport sector, including the
relevant sections of the 1976-1981 five-year dev lopment plan;
(b) the identification of the major areas of data insuffi-
ciency and preparation of detailed arrangements for the collection


﻿- 34-                                  S
of all such data and other relevant information deemed necessary
for the Secretariat to carry out its functions;
(c) the identification and preliminary analysis of principal
problem areas in the transport sector and submission of recommenda-
tions for the solution of these problems;
(d) the preliminary technical and economic evaluation of
priority programs and projects in the transport sector; and
(e) the formulation of the elements and procedures of trans-
port sector planning and the detailing of the measures and infor-
mation required for initiating such planning.
These consultants will also provide on-the-job training of
staff of the Secretariat as well as recommend on training programs
for staff of the Secretariat in disciplines within its responsibil-
ity.


