Report No. PID9892
Project Name                     Kosovo-Private Sector Development Technical..
Assistance Grant
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       XKSF71265
Borrower                         NA
Implementing Agency              United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo,
UNMIK Pristina, Kosovo
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           December 20, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        December 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 12, 2001
Projected Board Date             NA
1. Country and Sector Background
During the past ten years the economy of Kosovo deteriorated dramatically.
Key sectors such as industry, mining, and infrastructure suffered from
massive disinvestment and neglect of operations and maintenance, and Kosovo's
human capital eroded significantly. A large proportion of the economic
activity went underground, with intensive development of informal private
small enterprises. Kosovo's economy currently includes about 300 socially
owned enterprises (SOEs) and some 27,000 private small and medium
enterprises. However, these enterprises exist today in institutionally and
economically unfriendly conditions with limited industrial production, very
limited access to credit, and no regulatory framework. Many SOEs need
significant restart capital to be able to produce at any level and have lost
the markets they used to serve. Indeed, the value added that these SOEs
contribute today to Kosovo's economy is not very significant.
In this context, it is expected that growth and recovery of economic activity
will be driven mainly by the private sector, that is, by privately owned
SMEs, old and new. However, to support the private sector, Kosovo needs a
comprehensive reform of its commercial legal and regulatory environment. The
absence of a legal framework not only creates a vacuum that is favorable to
criminal activities, but also highly increases the costs and risks of new
ventures, commercial transactions, and overall economic activity.
As the first step in the process of creating a viable commercial legal
environment, the UNMIK's Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) has recently,
with the assistance of the World Bank, completed the drafting and approval
process of a first set of commercial regulations: the regulation on business
organizations (referred to also as company regulation), the regulation on
contracts for sale of goods, the regulation of pledges and the regulation on
foreign investments. This package of regulations is designed to allow
economic actors to enter the market and operate within it. This, however,
constitutes only the first step in the creation of a full-fledged commercial
framework. Work is well advanced on a new bankruptcy regime, on a regulation
on mortgages over immovable property and on the introduction of appropriate



accounting standards. Drafts on a competition regulation and intellectual
property right regulation are also being developed.
It is important to emphasis that the successful implementation of the new
commercial legal framework will depend heavily on adequate institutional
capacity that is able to facilitate understanding and enforcement of the new
framework. Accordingly, this technical assistance project focuses on
assisting UNMIK in the development of key cornerstones of this capacity
building effort. In a nutshell, these are: (a) launching a new business
registration system, (b) providing necessary training to judges and lawyers
in the new commercial framework, and (c) helping to establish minimum
accounting standards and providing training for local accountants.
2. Objectives:
The objective of the proposed project is to improve the business-enabling
environment for private sector growth. Specifically the project would:
i. support the establishment and operation of a modern business registry
system;
ii. strengthen the capacity of the Commercial Courts to improve the quality
of legal services;
iii. assist in the development of accounting standards and in the provide
training for local accountants.
3. Rational for Banks Involvement
In view of the limited availability of Bank resources for Kosovo and in light
of the large financing role of other donors, the Bank's strategy for Kosovo
is based on investing in areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage.
The Bank's comparative advantage in financing this project stems from its
extensive experience in creating the legal and institutional framework for
PSD in the region. The crucial role played by a commercial framework in PSD
is self-evident.
4. Description
The project will have four main components:
Component 1: Development of a new full-fledged company registry by:
i. Advisory services to assist UNMIK's Judicial Affairs Department in
drafting the new legislative/administrative instrument which will
establish the new business registry; design the transitional mechanism by
which the existing registration functions will be transferred to the
registry under the Commercial Court; and explore the possibility of
developing a pledge registry.
ii. Procurement of hardware, software, and MIS to implement the transfer of
functions and the development of the new registry;
iii. Advisory services on business registry application and database
development;
iv. Advisory services to develop a public information campaign on the new
business registration system and training of key personnel at the
Commercial Court.
Component 2: Program for strengthening the capacity of the Commercial and
Supreme Court for increasing the quality of legal services: The component
will provide:
i. Intensive and comprehensive training for sitting commercial judges and
legal practitioners. The program will include: ad-hoc training aimed at
understanding the latest commercial regulations and business environment,
- 2 -



improving the technical skills of judges; study tours to neighboring
countries with well functioning judicial system and; internship program
for judges in the commercial courts of neighboring countries;
ii. Drafting of commentaries for the new package of commercial regulations;
iii. Advisory services for the judges of the Commercial Court;
iv. Establishing a law library in the Commercial Court accessible to legal
practitioners. The library will contain relevant legal literature,
manuals, and collections of court opinions from neighboring countries;
v. Pilot legal aid program focusing at small businesses to finance a small
group of legal professionals who will provide legal advice to small
business.
Component 3: Supporting the Development of basic accounting standards and
provision of training for local accountants.: This component will finance:
i. Advisory services to establish a minimum accounting standards
ii. Training program for local accountants in basic accounting principals.
iii. Procurement of hardware and software for the training of accounts
Component 4: Project Implementation Unit: This component will finance:
i. A Financial Management/Implementation Specialist to manage and assist
with financial management and procurement requirements of the project.
ii. Two local project assistants
5. Financing
Total Project cost is US$ 3.0 Million.
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over a two-year period. The main executing
agencies will be the Pillar II- Judicial Affairs Department (JAD) which will
appoint a project director to lead of an inter-departmental task force. The
task force will be responsible for the overall project implementation and its
members will include representatives from Department of Trade and Industry
(DTI), the Provisional Registration Unit (PRU), the OSCE and the Central
Fiscal Authority (CFA). CFA will be responsible for the financial management
aspects of the Grant administration.
7. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Many of the lessons learned from similar TA operations were taken into
account in the design of this project. Lessons from other projects indicate
that when designing and reforming new institutions, particular attention
should be paid to:
a.      Minimize the impact on the budget; this is especially applicable in the
case of Kosovo which has a very limited tax base;
b.      Preserve the existing institutional capacity; this is especially true
in the case of Kosovo which, for historical reasons, has very limited
institutional capacity
c.      Ensure that the institutions are user-friendly; this holds especially
for Kosovo as in the past ten years a large proportion of Kosovo's
economic activity went underground. Hence the new regulatory framework
will be successful only if it makes the cost of operating legally
significantly less than the cost of operating illegally.
-3 -



Lessons learned from other operations carried out in Kosovo were also taken
into consideration. These include the need to ensure:
a.      Local ownership to guarantee sustainability. This will ensure
compliance by the Kosovars and continuity in the project given the high
turnover of the international counterparts.
b.      Donor coordination to avoid duplication of efforts
c.      Flexibility given the uncertain political situation.
d.     Integration of   the parallel structures into the formal legal and
institutional structures
8. Poverty Category
No significant social risks identified at this stage.
9. Environmental Aspects
Not Applicable
10. Contact Point:
Gerardo M. Corrochano, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3568
Fax No.:         (202) 522-0005
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
- 4 -



