Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21893-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT OF US$3.0 MILLION
TO
KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
(SERBIA and MONTENEGRO)(KOSOVO)
FORA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
March 1, 2001
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECSPF
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 7, 2001)
Currency Unit = DEM
DEM I = US$0.481
US$1 = 2.078 DEM
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADJ   -  Administrative Department of Justice
CFA   -  Central Fiscal Authority
CIS   -  Credit Information Service
CPA   -  Central Procurement Authority
DTI  -  Department of Trade and Industry
EAR   -  European Agency for Reconstruction
FMS   -  Financial Management
GFMIS   -  Government Financial Management System
IAS   -  International Accounting Standards
TASD   -  International Accounting Standards Committee
IDA   -  International Development Agency
IRR   -  Internal Rate of Return
KCB   -  Kosovo Consolidated Budget
OSCE   -  Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe
PIP   -  Project Implementation Plan
PMR   -  Project Management Reports
PRU   -  Provisional Registration Unit
RFP   -  Request for Proposal
SA   -  Special Account
SEED   -  Southeast Europe Enterprise Development.
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditures
SRSG   -  Special Representation of Security General
STA   -  Single Treasury Account
UNMIK   -  United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director: Ilham Zurayk/Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader: Gerardo Corrocharno



PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Table of Contents
A. Project Development Objective ..............................................................5
1.  Project development objective ...............................................................5
2.  Key performance indicators ...............................................................5
B: Strategic Context ...............................................................5
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...............................................................5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................6
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................................. 10
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................11 
1. Project components ..............................................................                                              11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................................   12
3. Benefit and target population ..............................................................                                   13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................                   13
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................                                                    14
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................................. 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .......................... 15
3. Lessons lea rned and reflected in the project design ..............................................................             15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................................................   16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..............................................................                     16
E. Issues Requiring Special Attention ..............................................................                                   16
1. Economic .............................................................. 16
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                       17
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                       17
4. Institutional .............................................................. 17
5. Environmental ..............................................................                                                   18
6. Social .............................................................. 18
7. Safeguard Policies ..............................................................                                              19
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                             19
1. Sustainability .............................................................. 19
2. Critical Risk .............................................................. 20
G. Main Loan Conditions .............................................................. 21
1. Effectiveness Conditions ..............................................................                                        21
2. Other ..............................................................                                                           21
H. Readiness for Implementation .............................................................. 21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                    ..21



Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ......................................................                                                                  22
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description ..................................................... 23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .....................................................                                                                  27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .....................................................                                                            28
Annex 5: Financial Summary .....................................................                                                                        32
Annex  6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .....................................................                                              36
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ......................................................                                  43
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements  .........................                                  ............................. 44
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ..........................                                   ............... 4.5
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...................................................... 46
Annex  7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..................................................... 47
Annex  8:   Documents in the Project File ..................................................... 4,3
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .....................................................                                                           49)
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ...................................................... 50



Kosovo, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro)(KOSOVO)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Project Appraisal Document
Private and Financial Sector Development
ECSPF
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Date: March 1, 2001                                   Team Leader: Gerardo Corrochano
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman             Sector Manager: Ilham Zurayk
Project ID: SF-P071265-LEN-BB                         Sector: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Grant from the Trust Fund for    Theme(s): Institution Building
Kosovo
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financina Data
[ ] Loan      [ ] Credit           [X] Grant         [ ] Guarantee               [ ] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Total Project Cost US$            3.0             Cofinancing:
Contact person:  Gerardo Corrochano (ECSPF)
E-mail:    gcorrochano@worldbank.org
Total Bank Financing US$          3.0
Borrower: N.A.
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK)
Project implementation period: 03/01/01 to 03/01/03 - 2 years: FY01-FY03
Implementing Agencies: UNMIK - Administrative Department of Justice (ADJ), and Central Fiscal Authority (CFA)
Contact person: Sylvie Pantz (ADJ); Tony Preston-Stanley (CFA).
Address: Pristina, Kosovo
Tel:                                 Fax:                   E-mail:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY            2001      2002      2003
Annual           0.2        1.8       1.0
Cumulative       0.2       2.0        3.0
Project implementation period: 2 years: FYO1-FY03
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/01 Expected closing date:  09/30/03






5
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1.   Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed project is to improve the business-enabling environment for private
sector growth. Specifically the project would:
(a)   support the establishment and operation of a modern business registry system;
(b)   strengthen the capacity of the Commercial and Supreme Courts and improve the quality of
legal services;
(c)   assist in the development of basic accounting standards, provide training for local
accountants, and assist in the establishment of an association of accountants.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The grant will finance consultant services, training and equipment. Progress in achieving the
development objective will be assessed on the basis of:
(a)   Number of registered enterprises and turnover time of registration process;
(b)   Availability of information from the business registry for tax purposes;
(c)   Number of completed cases at the Commercial Court;
(d)   Number of Judges and Lawyers completing the training programs;
(e)   Number of trained accountants, and the establishment of an association of accountants.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
The proposed project is consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo and the
joint European Commission/World Bank Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo.
Both strategies recognize that growth will be led by the private sector and call for the creation of
a legal and institutional framework to support its development.
The proposed project is an ancillary operation to support the policy framework supported by the
Bank's Third Economic Assistance Grant to Support Private Sector Development (EAG m,
Quarter 1, 2001). EAG III is anchored around a core first set of recently approved commercial
regulations: the regulation on business organizations, the regulation on contracts for the sale of
goods, the regulation on pledges and the regulation on foreign investment.
Relevant Documents: Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo, September 1999; Program for
Reconstruction and Recovery of Kosovo, November 1999; Economic and Social Reforms for
Peace and Reconciliation, June 2000; Transitional support strategy for Kosovo - Progress
Report, July 2000.



6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a)   Private Sector Background:
During the past ten years the economy of Kosovo deteriorated dramatically. Key sectors such as
industry, mining, and infrastructure suffered from massive disinvestments and neglect of
operations and maintenance, and Kosovo's human capital eroded significantly.  A large
proportion of the economic activity went underground, with intensive development of informnal
private small enterprises. Kosovo's economy currently includes about 400 socially owned
enterprises (SOEs) and some 28,000 private small and medium enterprises (SMEs). However,
these enterprises exist today in institutionally and economically unfriendly conditions with
limited industrial production, very limited access to credit and no regulatory framework. Many
SOEs need significant restart capital to be able to produce at any level and have lost the markets
they used to serve. Indeed, the value added that these SOEs contribute today to Kosovo's
economy is not very significant.
In this context, it is expected that growth and recovery of economic activity will be driven mainly
by the private sector, that is, by privately owned SMEs, old and new. However, to support the
private sector, Kosovo needs a comprehensive reform of its commercial legal and regulatory
environment. The absence of a legal framework not only creates a vacuum that is favorable to
criminal activities, but also significantly increases the costs and risks of new ventures,
commercial transactions, and overall economic activity.
As the first step in the process of creating a viable commercial legal environment, the UNMIK's
Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) has recently, with the assistance of the World Bank,
completed the drafting and approval process of a first set of commercial regulations: the
regulation on business organizations (referred to also as company regulation), the regulation on
contracts for the sale of goods, the regulation of pledges and the regulation on foreign
investments. This package of regulations is designed to allow economic actors to enter the
market and operate within it. This, however, constitutes only the first step in the creation of a
fully-fledged commercial framework. Work is well advanced on a new bankruptcy regime, on a
regulation on mortgages over immovable property and on the introduction of appropriate
accounting standards. Drafts of regulations on a competition and intellectual property rights
regulation are also being developed.
It is important to emphasize that the successful implementation of the new commercial legal
framework will depend heavily on adequate institutional capacity that is able to facilitate
understanding and enforcement of the new framework. Accordingly, this technical assistance
project focuses on assisting UNMIK in the development of key cornerstones of this capacity
building effort. In a nutshell, these are:
i. development of a new fully-fledged business registry,
ii. providing programs to strengthen the capacity of the Commercial and Supreme Courts
and increase the quality of legal services, and



7
iii. supporting the development of basic accounting standards, provision of training for local
accountants, and the establishment of an association of accountants.
It should be noted that these few initiatives are not intended to rectify all issues that plague the
development of the private sector in Kosovo. Thus, it should be recognized that this is a start
and other activities for improvement of private sector are expected to be undertaken under
follow-up projects. Priority has been given to the above mentioned TA activities as they directly
support the implementation and enforcement of the incipient commercial regulatory environment
of Kosovo.
(b)   Registration of businesses and economic activity
Prior to 1989, registration of business enterprises, associations, and individuals involved in
business activity was conducted at the economic courts in Pristina and Gjacova/Djakovica (also
known as the "Commercial" courts). The role of the courts was limited to verifying that the
application submitted was complete and that it included all required documents. This procedure
was purely administrative in nature and the information provided was not independently verified.
In fact, applications were never rejected. Overall, the inaccuracy and poor condition of existing
records, combined with the large proportion of the informal sector that went unrecorded make
whatever is left of the old registration system obsolete and largely useless as a basis for the
creation of new registration system.
A provisional business registration process was established by UNMIK in March 2000 by
Regulation No. 2000/8. Aside from gathering initial information regarding the level of post-
conflict economic activity of economic units, the main purpose of this provisional registration
system was to assist with the administration of taxes for the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA).
While the existing provisional registration does provide a form of identification of those who are
in business, it is not considered a fully-fledged business registration system and does not create
legal personality for the registrants.
To date, some 28,000 registrations have taken place. The vast majority of these (85 percent)
have been registered as sole proprietorships, yet it is estimated that most of them are in fact
family owned businesses operated by more than one individual. It is estimated that as many as
2,000 additional registrations of businesses remain to be made.
To promote the development of the private sector and to move the emerging private sector into
the formal economy, a new Regulation on Business Organizations was adopted by UNMIK.
This regulation contemplates the establishment of a system of modem business registration that
will focus on the collection, verification, storage, and retrieval of information pertinent to the
company's creation, liability, and continued existence.
After a careful assessment of the regulations, laws, and procedures dealing with the current
(provisional) registration activity as well as the registrations that took place prior to 1989,
UNMIK has decided to establish the new business registration system at the Commercial Court.
The business registry is expected to operate as a semi autonomous administrative body,
independent from the judicial activities of the Commercial Court. The location of the business



8
registry was a controversial issue and several solutions including the setting up of an independent
institution were reviewed and evaluated. Locating the business registry at the Commercial Court
received the support of the president of the Court, ADJ, and the general business and legal
community. The detailed plan for the establishment and operation of the business registration
system is discussed in Annex 2. Naturally, the current Provisional Registration Unit (PRU) will
be fully incorporated into the proposed registration system and every effort will be made to
reduce the overhead and burden to businesses that operated in Kosovo during the business
registration phase. In parallel, businesses should be educated on the value and procedures of the
proposed registration system.
(c)    Kosovo 's courts and legal services
The Kosovo Law on Regular Courts lays out the basic principles for the functioning and
organization of the judiciary. The judicial branch is comprised of a single system of general and
special jurisdiction courts that functions at three levels: first instance (24 municipal courts),
ordinary appeal (5 district courts), and extraordinary appeal (the Supreme Court). The special
court system comprises commercial courts and courts of minor offenses.
The commercial court system consists of one first-instance commercial court in Pristina.1 The
commercial court deals with: (i) commercial and economic disputes and liability issues between
legal entities; (ii) economic offenses and crimes; (iii) bankruptcies; (iv) issues related to
protection of fair competition (anti-monopoly measures); (v) disputes which result from
accounting problems; (vi) intellectual property disputes between or within legal entities; (vii)
disputes related to the execution of the decisions in the above matters and the application of
corporate, commercial, banking and business law. The Supreme Court functions as an ordinary
and extraordinary appeal court for all commercial cases.
As of today, activities of the commercial court include only old civil disputes and economic
offenses. The main reason is a lack of formal economic activities and economic players but also
the absence of an adequate legal and institutional framework that would facilitate integration of
informal (gray) business into formal structures. Obviously, informal businesses cannot use the
courts to protect their rights. As stated above, a first basic set of commercial laws was approved.
In this context, it is envisioned that the number of cases in the commercial court will increase
dramatically.
At present, the capacity of the commercial court is very limited. This is mainly due to the
insufficient experience and skills of judges to handle commercial cases. As of today, 13
commercial judges have been appointed kl0 judges are in the Commercial Court and 3 for the
Supreme Court). All judges graduated from the local law faculty, and passed the Bar exam
before 1989.  Most of the judges have experience from  the bench and/or prosecutorial
experience. This experience, however, is from the time they were active, that is prior to their
dismissal in 1989.
Prior to the41999 conflict there were two commercial courts in Kosovo, one in Pristina and one in Gjacova.
Primarily because of financial constraints, UNMIK's Judicial Affairs Department has decided to reopen only the
Connnercial Court of Pristina where most of commercial activities take and will take place. This court started
operating in January 2000.



9
Enterprises in Kosovo tend to use the services of lawyers in their interaction with the state
administration and the courts. It is evident that, with the passage of the proposed package of
commercial laws, along with the judicial services, legal advice and the services of lawyers will
be absolutely necessary to guide enterprises through a complex set of new legal rules.
According to the regulations governing legal services, only attorneys registered with the Bar
Association can advise, consult and represent clients in the courts. Today, about 154 lawyers are
registered with the Bar Association. There are, however, strong indications that the majority of
legal practitioners operate informally and are not registered or recognized by the Kosovo Bar
Association. This informal group of legal practitioners includes company lawyers, lawyers who
work for the government and municipalities, and the so-called "lost generation of lawyers"2. The
lawyers organized in the Bar mostly specialize in criminal law. It is the informal group of legal
practitioners who are now focussed on providing legal services to businesses.
While it is difficult to assess the quality of legal services provided today in Kosovo, it is clear
that the situation that will emerge when the new legal framework comes into effectiveness will
require legal services, which are not currently available. The judges and legal practitioners are
not familiar with the new legal concepts being introduced. There is very little history of relevant
and accessible legal information, including jurisprudence, necessary to implement and enforce
these concepts. The combination of novelty of policies and regulations, the absence of basic
legal information, and inexperienced and poorly skilled judges and legal practitioners will make
the implementation and enforcement of the commercial laws in Kosovo difficult. To overcome
these problems, it is of the utmost importance that the capacity of the commercial courts and
legal practitioners be strengthened without delay.
(d)    Supporting the development of accounting standards and the accounting profession
The availability and quality of accounting services in Kosovo is unsatisfactory. This situation is
due primarily to a critical shortage of qualified accountants who posses a basic understanding of
accounting and audit standards. But it is also due to the lack of recognized and accepted
accounting standards.  A  sound accounting infrastructure, including appropriately trained
accounting professionals, is a crucial pillar for private sector development and economic growth.
This is particularly true in Kosovo, where large amourits of new investment are urgently needed,
and where full transparency of information will play an important role in providing confidence to
new investors.
There are around 3000 individuals who describe themselves as professional accountants in
Kosovo. However, almost all of them perform simple bookkeeping tasks and have limited or no
knowledge of basic accounting and auditing principles. While it is unclear what the exact
process of certification was prior to 1989, many of these accountants have in fact grown through
the ranks in enterprises until they have reached the status at which they are considered
accountants. The degree of formal and informal education of many of these individuals is very
hard to assess.
2 The "lost generation of lawyers" comprises lawyers who graduated from the informal education system between
1989 and 2000. It is estimated that there are approximately 2000 graduates from this system.



10
As part of UNMIK's comprehensive fiscal reform efforts, a new tax regulation would be
introduced in the next few months, and will require businesses with revenues above a certain
threshold to pay tax on their profits3. The taxable profit will need to be determined in accordance
with applicable Kosovo accounting standards adjusted for some specific tax requirements.
According to recent estimates made by the TMF, at least 500 local businesses will be subject to
the new profit tax regime., although UNMIK estimates that the figure could be as high as 5,000.
In this context, a significant number of qualified accountants will be needed to provide advice
and assistance to improve accounting and financial reporting systems and procedures of
enterprises. Given that, there is virtually no current local capacity to perform these tasks,
international accountants hired from outside Kosovo at a very high cost are carrying out many of
the accounting related tasks. Clearly, this is an unsustainable situation over the long term.
To address this problem UlNMIK is in the process of developing and implementing a transitional
strategy to strengthen the accounting regulatory and institutional capacity. A new accounting
regulation is being drafted to introduce rules on maintenance of records on a cash basis
supplemented by additional information to enable reconciliation between accounting cash profit
and taxable income for businesses subject to profit tax. Additional thought is being given to the
introduction of basic LAS-compliant principles adapted to Kosovo's needs and business
environment. It is also intended to support the creation of an association of accountants to assist
the development of sustainable accounting capacity in Kosovo.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project provides technical assistance (consultant and advisory services), training and
equipment - to create or strengthen the institutions that will be indispensable for the conduct of
business under the new commercial legal framework. Specifically, the project will address:
(a)    The need to establish a modem  and user-friendly business registration system. The
implementation of this component will allow enterprises to acquire legal personality in
the forms and ways described in the Regulation on Business Organizations. Furthermore,
the registry will collect information essential for the functioning of a market economy;
(b)   The weak capacity of the Commercial and Supreme Courts to adjudicate commercial
cases and the lack of legal services relevant to market based business development. This
component aims at improving the understanding of the commercial judges and legal
community of the new commercial framework; strengthening judicial technical skills,
improving access to relevant legal information, and strengthening the capacity of legal
professionals to provide adequate legal advice to private businesses;
(c)    The need to establish minimum  accounting standards, train local accountants, and
establish an association of accountants, all with the aim to increasing accounting capacity
in Kosovo.
3As of today, tax is basically calculated on turnover.



11
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
(a) Development of a new fully-fledged business registry: This component will support the
establishment and operation of a modem business registry system, which will allow enterprises to
acquire legal personality in the forms and ways described in the new business organization
regulation. It is envisioned that on the basis of a new business registration regulation the
competence to register companies will be given to a new registration section to be established
within the Commercial Court. After a transitional period of 6-12 months the current capacity of
the Provisional Registration Unit (PRU) will be incorporated into the new registry system and
passed into the Commercial Court. More specifically, this component will provide:
i. Advisory services to assist UNMIK's ADJ in drafting the new legislative/administrative
instrument which will establish the new business registry; to design the transitional
mechanism by which the existing registration functions will be transferred to the registry
under the Commercial Court; and to explore the possibility of developing a pledge
registry;
ii. Procurement of hardware, software, and other MIS to implement the transfer of
functions and the development of the new registry;
iii. Advisory services on business registry application and database development;
iv. Advisory services to develop a public information campaign on the new business
registration system and training of key personnel at the Commercial Court;
v. Advisory services to assist UNMIK with the establishment of a new pledge registry
using the resources of the new fully-fledged business registration unit. Further donor
funds will be sought for this activity.
(b) Strengthening the capacity of the Commercial and Supreme Courts and improving the
quality of legal services:
The Commercial Courts capacity will be strengthened through:
i. Emergency training for sitting commercial judges and selected legal practitioners. The
program will include: 1) ad-hoc training aimed at understanding the recently approved
commercial regulations and business environment, improving the technical skills of
judges; 2) study tours of commercial judges to neighboring countries with a well
functioning commercial courts system and 3); apprenticeship program for judges in the
commercial courts of a neighboring country;
ii. Establishing law libraries in the Commercial Court and the Supreme Court accessible to
legal practitioners. The libraries will contain relevant legal literature, manuals, and
collections of court opinions from neighboring countries;
iii. Drafting of commentaries for the new package of commercial regulations;
iv. Pilot legal aid program to finance a small group of legal professionals who will provide
legal advice to small and medium businesses free of charge or for a reduced charge.



12
(c)  Development of basic  accounting  standards,  and provision  of training, and
establishment of an association of accountants: This component will finance:
i. Advisory services to establish minimum accounting standards;
ii. Training program for local accountants in basic accounting principles;
iii. Procurement of hardware and software for the training of accountants;
iv. Assistance in the establishment of an association of accountants.
(d)    Project Implementation Support: This component will finance:
i. A Financial Management/Implementation Specialist to manage and assist with financial
management and reporting requirements of the project;
ii. Three local project assistants
Component                 Sector      Indicative    % of       Bank-       % of
Costs     Total      Financing    Bank-
(US$ mln)             (US$ mtn)   Financing
Development of a new fully-fledged   Institutional  1.36        45         1.36        45
business registry                Development
Program for strengthening capacity  Institutional   0.89        30         0.89        30
of the courts and increasing quality   Development
of legal services.
Development of basic accounting  Institutional      0.52        17         0.52        17
standards, provision of training, and   Development
establishment of an association of
accountants.
Project Implementation Support   Institutional      0.23         8         0.23         8
Development
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As previously stated, the proposed project is complementary to the Third Economic Assistance
Grant to Support Private Sector Development (EAG Il, Quarter 1, 2001), which is anchored
around the introduction of the commercial legal framework essential for PSD. The introduction of
a new commercial framework calls for capacity building in the institutions that are key for its
implementation. The introduction of a new company regulation requires the creation of a modem
business registry that allows enterprises to acquire legal personality in the forms and ways
described in the new regulation. Moreover, the introduction of a new legal framework requires
improved capacity of the commercial court and legal practitioners to provide their services. Finally,
the establishment of a new tax regulation requires the development of a basic accounting capacity,
provision of training for local accountants, and the creation of an association of accountants.



13
3. Benefits and target population:
The project aims at creating or strengthening the institutions that will support the newly created
commercial legal framework. Specifically, the principal benefits will include the creation of a
modem and user-friendly business and pledge registry, strengthening of the capacity of the legal
professionals and commercial judges, and development of basic accounting principles and
provision for training of local accountants. The target population is the enterprise sector and the
business community at large, which will benefit from an improved business-enabling
environment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be implemented over a two-year period.
The main executing agencies, the Administrative Department of Justice (ADJ) and the Central
Fiscal Authority (CFA), will oversee the implementation and take overall responsibility for the
respective component of their project. Two Project Coordinators will be nominated by the ADJ
and CFA to manage and provide a basic oversight role to ensure that the project is being
implemented according to agreed objectives and operating manuals. The project coordinators will
fornally report to the head of ADJ and CFA, respectively. The project coordinators will work
closely with representatives from the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), the Provisional
Registration Unit (PRU), and the OSCE.
The CFA will be responsible for the financial management aspects of Grant administration. An
assessment of the financial capacity of the CFA has been conducted, and has concluded that the
existing system meets at least the minimum requirements for proper grant administration and
reporting. However, the current capacity, within the CFA may become overly stretched by the
requirements considered necessary to meet the FMS requirements of all Bank financed projects. It
is therefore proposed that a new financial management specialist be financed from the grant and
located in the CFA. With the assistance of the new specialist CFA is expected to produce full
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) by September 2001. To increase local financial
management capacity in Kosovo, at least two local assistants will also be hired in CFA under the
grant and will be trained by the FM specialist.
In addition, the Central Procurement Authority (CPA) will be responsible for carrying out all
procurement activities related to the project in accordance with World Bank guidelines and
procedures. A local assistant will be recruited under the grant to assist with the project procurement
activities. It is proposed that the CPA would carry out procurement according to agreed procedures
on behalf of the departments involved in the project. However, departments in charge of individual
components will be responsible for defining the terms of reference, determining short lists,
establishing evaluation committees, and contract management.



14
In relation to proposed audit arrangements, CFA is in process of appointing Auditors to undertake
audits of the entire consolidated Kosovar budget. This will also include an audit of the use of the
Grant funds. CFA will utilize traditional disbursement procedures at the inception of the project.
Once acceptable acronym PMRs are produced, a move to PMR-based disbursement could be
considered.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two other alternatives were considered and were rejected on the possible location of the business
registry. These were:
(a)  Private Sector Entity: The project team considered the possibility of creating a private
registry, which should be accessible by all the interested parties. In particular, some consideration
was given to the use of the newly emerging Credit Information Service (CIS). The CIS was created
by a handful of existing financial institutions and provides its members with information on the
borrowers of all the member institutions. However, the members of the CIS showed little interest in
the proposal. Moreover, given that the registry fulfills a public function it seems more appropriate
that the registry be public in nature.
(b) Separate Centralized Government Agency: At an earlier stage of project preparation it was
envisioned that the registry could be established as a separate government agency under the
Economic and Natural Resources Department or the Judicial Affairs Department. This would have
meant strengthening the capacity of the temporary business registration unit to include a data entry
section, as the Statistical Office has to take on other functions. However, all the Kosovar
stakeholders strongly support the location of the registry in the Commercial Court. In particular, the
business conmmunity felt that if the registration had to take place in a separated government agency,
the information collected could have been misused. Also, the local business community was
adamant in its view that an entrepreneur would think twice before providing false information to
the court. The community of legal professionals, including judges, lawyers and academics,
expressed a strong preference to have the registry based in the court.
A larger scale support component for a comprehensive reform of the commercial court was not
considered as needed since other donors are providing targeted support to Commercial Courts
mainly in the form of technical assistance for court and case management.



15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector Issue                            Project                              Latest
supervision
(PSR) Ratings.
(Bank Projects
Only)
PSD - creation of   Economic Assistance Grant for Private Sector Development  Under Preparation
new commercial   (EAG E)
framework
PSD - SME         Pilot SME Line of Credit Project                                S
development
Other development agencies
Assistance on     USAID: Financing the development of Kosovo accounting
Accounting        regulation.
Assistance to     SEED: Assists entrepreneurs develop sound business plans
Businesses        through seminars and one-to-one assistance.
Assistance to the   ABA/CEELI: Training of Magistrate and judges on criminal and
Judiciary        human rights
Assistance to the    Belgium Government: Technical Assistance to Kosovo Judicial
Judiciary         Institute on criminal law, and human rights law
Assistance to the    Finish Government: Automation of case management system
Judiciary         and development of a web site for legal database
Assistance to the    EAR: Upgrading and refurbishment of court buildings including
Judiciary         the Commercial Court
Assistance to the    French Govenment: Tecbnical assistance on case management
Judiciary         and refurbishment of court buildings
Assistance to the   US Government:
Judiciary          i. Technical Assistance for court management. Assistance
specifically in finance and personnel management
ii. Training in criminal, civil and juvenile law; law drafting;
legal literature; and legal translation
iii. Quick start package including essential equipment
distributed to each court
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Many of the lessons learned from similar TA operations were taken into account in the design of
this project. Lessons from other projects indicate that when designing and reforming new
institutions, particular attention should be paid to:



16
(a)   Minimizing the impact on the budget; this is especially applicable in the case of Kosovo
which has a very limited tax base;
(b)   Preserving the existing institutional capacity; this is especially true in the case of Kosovo
which, for historical reasons, has very limited institutional capacity;
(c)   Ensuring that the institutions are user-friendly; this holds especially for Kosovo as in the
past ten years a large proportion of Kosovo's economic activity went underground.
Hence the new regulatory framework will be successful only if it makes the cost of
operating legally significantly less than the cost of operating illegally.
Lessons learned from other operations carried out in Kosovo were also taken into consideration.
These include the need to ensure:
(a)   Local ownership to guarantee sustainability. This will ensure compliance by the Kosovars
and continuity in the project given the high turnover of the international counterparts;
(b)   Donor coordination to avoid duplication of efforts;
(c)   Flexibility given the uncertain political situation;
(d)   Integration of the parallel structures into the formal legal and institutional structures;
(e)   High turnover of UNMIK staff. In order to mitigate this risk, funds have been allocated
under grant for hiring additional staff if required.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
IJNMIK has requested Bank's support in designing the overall PSD agenda. The Bank has also
been heavily involved in reviewing the package of commercial regulations whose
implementation is supported by this technical assistant project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In view of the limited availability of Bank resources for Kosovo and in light of the large financing
role of other donors, the Bank's strategy for Kosovo is based on investing in areas where the Bank
has a comparative advantage. The Bank's comparative advantage in financing this project stems
from its extensive experience in creating legal and institutional frameworks for PSD in the region.
The crucial role played by a commercial framework in PSD is self-evident.
E: ISSUES REQUIRNG SPECIAL ATTENTION
1. Economic
The economic rate of return for the fully-fledged business registry is identical to its financial
returns because, as an UNMIK department, the business registry will not pay taxes. In addition,
the financial analysis performed for the fully-fledged business registration system has not
included the many externalities expected to benefit the Kosovo economy from its introduction:
improved credit access for businesses; more efficient use of existing asset stocks as collateral;
lower transaction costs in the financial system; additional employment and output resulting from
improved business access to credit.



17
2. Financial
Financial cost benefit analysis was carried out for the operation of the proposed fully-fledged
business registration unit. The analysis has shown that the project is expected to be financially
viable on the basis of the assumptions used in the financial analysis. Although the business
registry is expected to generate substantial surplus net revenues that will be transferred to the
Kosovo central budget, its objective is to fully cover costs and not to earn substantial profits.
(See Annex 4 for more detail.)
Other project components will not be subject to financial analysis, mainly because they have
institution building, not return on investment, as their primary objective. These activities are
relatively low in cost, have had a high positive impact in other contexts and, while there are
clearly identifiable benefits from successful implementation they cannot be quantified
meaningfully.
3. Technical
As mentioned above, the main executing agencies ADJ and CFA will oversee the
implementation and take overall responsibility for the respective components of the project. Two
Project Coordinators will be nominated by the ADJ and CFA to manage and provide oversight
role on project implementation. Since the project is multi-dimensional and complex and given
the high turn over of staff at UNMIK, the effective implementation of the project may be
hampered. In order to mitigate this risk, unallocated/contingency funds have been built into the
project design to reinforce as required the project implementation management.
The new fully-fledged business registry will be developed under a tumkey contract with an
experienced international party covering software adaptation or development, hardware purchase,
registry establishment and operation, training and project management. The draft TOR for the
contract has been prepared. In addition, the project team has launched an assessment of the
pledge registry that is expected to utilize the resources of the new fully-fledged business registry.
The project has allocated some funds to assist with implementation of the pledge registry; that is
expected to be complemented by other donor funding.
4. Institutional
(a)  Executing agencies:
As mentioned previously, the main executing agencies are the Administrative Department of
Justice and the Central Fiscal Authority. They will each oversee the implementation and take
overall responsibility for their respective project components.
i. ADJ supported by Provisional Registration Unit (PRMJ, will be responsible for the
establishment of a modem business registration system and pledge registry. It is envisaged
that the current resources of the PRU will be fully incorporated into the new registry system
and its operation will become the responsibility of ADJ.



18
ii. ADJ supported by OSCE will be responsible for the development/procurement of training
packages, study tours and training to strengthen the understanding and awareness of
commercial issues amongst legal professional and commercial judges.
iii. CFA will be responsible for the establishment of minimum accounting standards, the
provision of training for local accountants, and supporting the creation of an association of
accountants. In addition, CFA with the assistance of CPA will manage the project's
financial management, procurement, and reporting requirements.
(b) Project management:
The two project coordinators nominated from ADJ and CFA will manage and assume overall
responsibility for successful implementation of their respective sub-components.
(c)  Procurement issues:
CPA already assists other Bank funded projects with their procurement activities. However,
since the current capacity in CPA is overly stretched a local assistant will be recruited under the
grant to assist the project coordinators with procurement activities of the project.
(d) Financial management issues:
The project will be assisted by CFA on financial management and reporting requirements. The
CFA has in place a financial management system that is capable of producing project
management reports as required by the Bank. This system has already been utilized for other
Bank funded projects. Through this project a financial manager will be hired for the CFA, whose
primary responsibility would be to prepare project management reports for all bank financed
projects. As part of its responsibilities CFA will be responsible for opening the project's Special
Account (SA). The SA, as in other projects managed by CFA, is a sub-account of their existing
commercial bank account. The SA will be replenished periodically using CFA's financial
accounting system.
5. Environmental              Environmental category C
Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this
analysis.
There are no environmental issues to be addressed by the project, and EMP is not required.
6. Social
Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been designed in cooperation with the ADJ, OSCE, BRU, CFA, DTI,
Commercial Court, the Supreme Court, the Bar Association, the Legal Association. The business
community at large has also been consulted.



19
How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project has been designed in consultation with the major legal NGO, the Kosovo Law Center.
Advice has also been sought from the existing financial institutions. The project has been designed
in close coordination with all the other donors involved in the area, such as USAID, ABA, EAR,
CEELI, and the French Government.
7.   Safeguard Policies
(check applicable items):
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)
Forestry (OP 4.36)
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)       _
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
As far as sustainability of the institutional reform/strengthening supported by the project is
concerned, the project has been designed in close consultation with the relevant stakeholders to
strengthen the already existing institutions- the Commercial Court, and the Kosovo Judicial
Institute- and finance the creation of a new registry. As far as financial sustainability is concerned,
an analysis of the financial sustainability of the registry indicates that the registry could be self-
sustaining after one year.
The sustainability of non-revenue generating component/subcomponents will be achieved through
careful selection of the types of technical assistance that are suitable to local conditions and
requirements of the new commercial framework.



20
2.   Critical Risks: (see Annex 1)
Risk                  Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating_
From Outputs to Objective
Continued commitment to improve the    N      UNMIK's plan to create a new business enabling legal
business enabling environment and             framework and its desire to meet the goal of the Bank's EAG III
approval of additional conunercial            project.
regulations;
Local support for acceptance of new    H      The Project team has discussed this issue with the local
business enabling environment after           authorities and UNMIK, and it is generally agreed that the
possible departure of UNMIK;                  project will not suffer as a consequence. However, strong and
close supervision of the project will be maintained with strong
policy dialogue and public informnation campaign to support the
reforms.
Acceptance by the Legal profession of  M      Commitment from legal community, policy dialogue, and Public
new legal environment                         Information Campaign.
|From Components to Outputs
Advisor-s are not appointed in time.   S      The procurement procedures to hire the services planned will
start early in the project.
Continued CFA's capability to perform  M      The Project will fund one Financial Management Specialist and
Financial Management activities               three local staff to assist with the Financial Management and
required by the Project                       Procurement requirements of the project.
The project coordination/management    S      The design of the project built in some unallocated/contingency
will be carried out effectively given        funds and sufficient flexibility in case there is a need to
high turnover of staff in Kosovo             reinforce support to project management.
Recommendations of advisors are not   S/M    LJNMIK commitment to establish a new commercial framework.
implemented.
Overall Risk Rating                    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), and N (Negligible or Low Risk)



21
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
There are no conditions of effectiveness for this project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)   A mid-term review to be conducted by March 31, 2002 based on satisfactory TORs.
(b)   The CFA is to maintain satisfactory Financial Management Systems, including records
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting standards
satisfactory to the Bank; and the CFA is to provide annual project accounts and
institutional audits to the Bank within six months of each fiscal year (with the audit to be
carried out by independent auditors in accordance with international auditing standards,
and TORs satisfactory to the Bank).
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Banpolicies.
(signature)
Team Leader:       Corrochano
(signature)            4 1
Sector Manager: ham
(signature)
Country Director: Christiaa   a



22
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Hierarchy of 6Objevti                            Ky;0e -.- i, |0 Kion
Sector-related CAS Goal:                           Sector Indicators:                                    Sector/ country reports:  (fr. Goal to Bank Mission)
*  To encourage the private sector-led growth.     *  Increased share of GDP produced by the private     *  Country and sector economic        *  Continued peace process;
sector.                                               reports.                             *  Continued political stability.
Project Develpmt. Object.:                         Outcome/lmpact Indicators:                            Project reports:                       (from Objective to Goal)
*  To itmprove the business enabling environment    *   Number of registered enterprises and tssmover time  *  ESW on Private Sector           *  Continued implementation of other
fbr private sector growth by:                      of registration process                               Development;                          economic policies and reforms;
- supporting the establishment and operation of a  *  Availability of infornnation from the business     *  Report on court statistics;        *  Sustained comsnitment to judicial
iodemn business registry system;                   registry for tax purposes;                           *  Surveys ofjudicial end legal        reform.
strerigtiheninig the courts and helping improve 'the    *  Number of completed cases at the Comnnercial  services;
quality of legal services;                         Courts;                                              *  Bank supervision reports.
assisting in the development of accounting        *  Number of Judges and Lawyers completed the
stanidards, providing training to accountants and  training programs
creatiaig an association of accountants.          *  Improved compliance on accounting standards.
Output from components:                            Output Indicators:                                    Project reports:                       (from Outputs to Objective)
*  Modem fully-fledged business registry system.   *  FuDly-fledged business registry fuDy operational;  *  Report on court statistics;        *  Continued conmiitment to improve the
*   Launch registrabon process.                       *  Bank supervision reports;           business enabling environment and
Progress reports submitted by the    approval of additional commercial
.  Upgraded skills of commercial judges and legal   *  All commercial judges trained;                     CFA;                                  regulabons;
professionals;                                    *  Legal professionals trained;                       *  Surveys to users of business       *  Local support and acceptance to new
.  Legal libraries in the courts;                  *  Legal hlbraries operational;                        registration, legal services, and     business enabling environment after
*  Conimentaries to the 4 conmmercial regulations;   *  Regulaton's commentaries published;               accounting services.                  possible Departure of UNMIK;
*  Legal aid scheme for private business.          *  Legal aid center operational.                                                            *  Acceptance of legal professionals of
new legal environmnent;
*  Accounting association and training program;    *  Estabhlishnment of accounting body;
*  Number of trained accountant.
Project components:                                Inputs: (budget per comp.)                            Project reports:                      (fr. Components to Outputs)
*  Development of a new fally-fledged business     *  US$ 1.36 million.                                  *  Progress Reports submitted by      *  Tinnelyappointmentofadvisors
registry                                                                                                 the PIU;                             *  Continued CFA's capability to perform
*  Bank supervision reports.           Financial Management activities required
*  Prograin for strengthening capacity of the courts  *  US$ 0.89 million.                                                                      by the Project
aisd increasing the quality of legal services.                                                                                                .  The design of the project built in some
unallocated/contingency funds and
.  Development of basic accounting standards, and  *  US$ 520 thousand.                                                                         sufficient flexibility in case there is a need
provision of training, and establishment of an                                                                                                 to reinforce support to project
association of accountants.                                                                                                                    managenment.
*  Implenmentation of reconmendations by
*  Project Implementation Support.                 *  US$ 230 thousand.                                                                         advisors.



23
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
The project consists of four components.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - Development of a new fully-fledged business registry- US$1.36 million
A Regulation on Business Organizations was recently adopted in Kosovo. There is every expectation
that this Regulation will be adopted fairly soon, possibly by early 2001. The Regulation contemplates
that a system of registration will be established to provide the business registration required by the
Regulation.
There is currently in effect a Provisional Registration Unit (PRU) that was established to support a
system of taxation and to provide data on the Kosovo economic activity. Data on the registration and
economic records is entered into a computerized system and stored by the Statistical Office. As it is
currently constituted, this provisional registration system will not provide the support required by the
Regulation.
After a careful assessment of the regulations, laws, and procedures dealing with the current (provisional)
registration activity as well as the registrations that took place prior to 1989, UNMIK has decided to
establish the new business registration system at the Commercial Court. The business registry is
expected to operate as a semi autonomous administrative body, independent from the judicial activities
of the Commercial Court. The location of the business registry was a controversial issue and several
solutions, including the setting up of an independent institution, were reviewed and evaluated. Locating
the business registry at the Commercial Court received the support of the president of the Court, the
Administrative Department of Justice, and the general business and legal community.
However, the Commercial Court would have to be staffed, equipped, and trained to operate the new
system. To overcome this and to facilitate the rapid implementation of the new fully-fledged Business
Unit, a Business Registration Unit will start with a six to nine months transitional period. During this
period, the current PRU will be incorporated into the proposed registration system including the transfer
of its data, staff, and facilities. As discussed earlier, the project management for the set-up, transition
and operation of the new business registry will be developed under a turnkey contract with an
experienced international firm. The key elements of this plan include the following:
(a)   Advisory services to assist UNMIK's ADJ in drafting the new legislative/administrative
instrument which will establish the new business registry; to design the transitional mechanism
by which the existing registration functions will be transferred to the registry under the
Commercial Court; and to explore the possibility of developing a pledge registry;
(b)   Procurement of hardware, software, and other MIS to implement the transfer of functions and
the development of the new registry;
(c)   Advisory services on business registry application and database development;



24
(d)   Advisory services to develop a public information campaign on the new business registration
system and training of key personnel at the Commercial Court;
(e)   Advisory services to assist UNMIK with the establishment of a new pledge registry using the
resources of the new fully-fledged business registration unit. Further donor funds will be sought
for this activity.
A turnkey management contract will be sought to manage the set-up, establishment, and smooth
transition of the existing Provisional Business Registry to a fully-fledged business registry. The new
fully-fledged business registry is expected to be operational by the fourth quarter 2001 and the contract is
expected to last up to nine months (April-December 2001). The contract will include a three-month
period during which the satisfactory management of transfer and function of the new registration system
to local registrars will be required.
Project Component 2 - Program for strengthening capacity of the courts and increasing the
quality of legal services - US$0.89 million
The Component will comprise two sub-components: (i) strengthening capacity of the Commercial Court
and the Supreme Court, and (ii) improving quality of legal services for small and medium businesses.
The following activities will be carried out under the first sub-component:
i. In order to "stand up" the existing commercial judicial system, an emergency training programn
for commercial judges and commercial lawyers, will be designed and executed. The training
program will be aimed at sitting commercial judges in the Commercial Court (10) and in the
Supreme Court (3), and selected practicing lawyers. The program's main goal will be to prepare
the newly appointed judges and lawyers for their duties. The program will focus on all the new
legal concepts recently introduced in Kosovo4 as well as developing new skills and best practices
associated with the decision-making processes. Economics, finance, business administration,
accounting and other business disciplines will be integral parts of the proposed training program.
ii. The above training program will be complemented by a study tours of the Kosovo commnercial
judges to one or two countries with well functioning commercial court systems and an
apprenticeship program in the courts of neighboring countries. The main purpose of the study
tours will be to give the comnmercial judges an opportunity to exchange experiences with their
colleagues in other countries and to be exposed to the best judicial practices. The main purpose
of the apprenticeship program is to facilitate a fast accumulation of relevant judicial experience.
Under this program, Kosovo's commercial court judges will study judicial operational practices
for approximately two months in functioning commercial courts. In order to be successful, the
program should be conducted in a country (i) with a more developed judicial system; (ii) with a
similar institutional and legal framework; and (iii) without language barriers. It has been
tentatively agreed upon with the Kosovo judges and the Croatian Ministry of Justice and the
presidents of the commercial courts in Croatia that this program will be conducted in Croatia.
4' the regulation on business organizations (referred to also as company regulation), the regulation on contracts
for the sale of goods, the regulation of pledges and the regulation on foreign investments".



25
iii. In order to increase the opportunities for self-study by the judges the libraries will be created in
the Commercial Court and the Supreme Court. The libraries will comprise relevant legal and
judicial literature, including commentaries on commercial laws and court precedents from other
countries. In addition, a personal "rescue package" of basic laws, manuals, guidelines and court
precedents will be given to all sitting judges. For the first six months of the project
implementation an advisor, preferably selected among experienced commercial judges, will
advise the Kosovo judges on an ad-hoc basis.
iv. A set of commentaries on the recently issued laws will be prepared. The goal of this project
activity will be: (i) to secure the consistent and accurate interpretation of the laws, and (ii)to
increase the ownership and understanding of the relevant legal concepts. The commentaries,
therefore, should be prepared through a participatory process.
The following activity will be carried out under the second subcomponent:
i. A pilot legal aide program focusing on the small and medium businesses will be designed and
implemented. The main goals of the program will be to compensate for the lack of relevant legal
service in the market and to assist in forming the core of specialized commercial lawyers. Under
this program, a group of about 20 young law faculty graduates will be financed for a year to
provide legal advice free of charge or for reduced fees. The group will be led and overseen by an
experienced international consultant.
Project Component 3 - Development of accounting standards, training of accountants, and
creation of an association of accountants - US$0.52 million
A Regulation on Accounting is currently being drafted, and the intention is that it should be adopted
before the end of June 2001. Its primary purpose is to support the introduction of the Profits Tax in
2002, by introducing simplified requirements for the keeping of records and the preparation of enterprise
financial statements. In addition, the provisions of the Regulation will pave the way for the introduction
of more market-oriented financial reporting. Although the full introduction of International Accounting
Standards (LAS) is neither necessary nor feasible in the current context of Kosovo, the new requirements
will be LAS-compatible, and will constitute the starting point for a process of convergence, over time,
with full IAS. This project component is intended to provide support to the continuing development of
the accounting requirements laid down in the Regulation.
Successful implementation of the new financial reporting regime will require the retraining of the
existing stock of accountants in Kosovo, and the development of a new education, training and
examination program for those who wish to become accountants in the future. The project will support
the development of the necessary training materials, the delivery of training courses, and the design and
implementation of an appropriate regulatory regime to govern the accreditation of accounting
professionals.
The creation of an association of accountants is also considered necessary to provide a sustainable
institutional framework for the continuing development of accounting capacity in Kosovo. The project
will support the creation of such an organization. It is not intended that, at an early stage, any regulatory
functions will be delegated to the association, although this is an issue that will be kept under review as
the project progresses.



26
Project Component 4 - Project Implementation Unit- US$0.23 million
A financial management specialist will be hired under the grant for the CFA in order to prepare PMRs as
required by the Bank. Two local accountants will also be hired using grant funds by the CFA to be trained by
the financial management specialist. In addition, one local consultant will be hired by Central Procurement
Authority to assist with the procurement requirements of the project.



27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
LOCAL   I FOREIGN           TOTAL
Project Cost By Component                           US $ million
Development of a new fully-fledged business registry   0.40           0.86          1.26
Program for strengthening capacity of the courts and    0.08          0.70          0.78
increasing quality of legal services.
Development of basic accounting standards, provision of  0.10         0.42          0.52
training, and establishment of an association of
accountants.
Project Irnplementation Support                         0.07          0.16          0.23
Total Baseline Cost                                    0.65           2.14          2.79
Physical Contingencies                                 0.02           0.08          0.10
Price Contingencies                                     0.02          0.09          0.11
Total Baseline Cost                                    0.69           2.31          3.00
Interest during construction 
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                               0.69           2.31          3.00
--:-  :- -;fL;  lForeign     Total
Ptotect C*ory                                        u S _  _millioon
Goods                                                                 0.26          0.26
Works
Services                                               0.39           1.72          2.11
Training/Study tours                                                  0.12          0.12
Incremental Operating Cost                             0.30                         0.30
Unallocated                                                           0.21          0.21
Total Project Costs                                    0.69           2.31          3.00
Interest during construction             _.
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                               0.69           2.31          3.00



28
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
(US$, FY 2001-2007)
Cost 0enerit Analysis: New            Pr,eset Value of Flows    FISCAL IMPACT
,Qd!;SSu i~:i S;R ( ly;fji,   Eeonomicy    F inindil                   0
Anasis    V AnalOs!s         Taxes   Subsidies
Benefits_
NPV of revenue using discount rate of                $2,478,416.40
7% over 7 years
NPV of revenue using discount rate of                $2,205,892.68
1 0% over 7 years
NPV of revenue using discount rate of                $1,838,881.90
15% over 7 years
Costs
NPV of costs including investment cost               $2,011,498.27
using discount rate of 7% over 7 years
NPV of costs including investment cost               $1,897,228.11
using discount rate of 10%  over 7 years
NPV of costs including investment cost               $1,735,873.30
using discount rate of 15% over 7 years
Net Benefats:
Net benefit using discount rate of 7%                 $466,918.13
over 7 years
Net benefit using discount rate of I10%               $308,664.56
over 7 years
Net benefit using discount rate of 15%                $ 103,008.59
over 7 years
IRR:
ERR of the project based on the base                        18.2%
case scenario
IRR of the project based on 20%                              8.6%
reduction in revenue
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
SThe economic rate of return for the fully-fledged business registry is identical to its financial returns because the business registry
will not pay taxes and also because the analysis has not included the many externalities expected to benefit the Kosovo economy from
its introduction.



29
The above financial cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the new fully-fledged business registration
component. The analysis is based on the estimated capital and operating costs and the forecast volumes
and revenues contained in the detailed Kosovo Registries Modernization study (November 2000) as well
as subsequent input from the Provisional Registry Unit. The MIRR for the Business Registration Unit is
calculated at a healthy rate of 18.2 percent.
The financial analysis does not include the many externalities expected to benefit the Kosovo economy
from the implementation of this component: improved credit access for businesses; more efficient use
of existing asset stocks as collateral; lower transaction costs in the financial system; additional
employment and output resulting from improved business access to credit.
Main Assumptions6:
* The time horizon for the financial projection is seven years.
* The tariff and cost estimates are based on the finding of the Bank funded "Kosovo Registries
Modernization study of November 2000" as well as information provided by the PRU. The main
estimates are:
0  Four thousand new businesses will register in FY 2002 (and grow at a rate of 5% pa)
at a cost of DEM 150 per unit.
0  Five thousand companies in Kosovo out of 28,000 registered will be required to
prepare and submit financial statements to the new fully-fledged Business Registration
System at an estimated cost of DEM 50 per unit.
0  One thousand businesses are estimated to be terminated at a cost of DEM 10 per unit.
0 The rate of growth for new businesses is assumed to be 5% over the next 7 years.
- The Exchange rate used is 2 DM = US$ 1.
* The project is expected to be fully operational by Quarter 4, 2001.
-  Cost and tariff estimates are expressed in constant terms, using costs calculated in early 2001.
- Due to potential productivity increases, the operating cost will remain the same while the number
of businesses registered will increase.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The Analysis above illustrates that the project's sustainability is strong and not overly sensitive to
reduction to revenue.
6 More detailed financial analysis is provided in the project implementation plan.



30
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
NOT APPLICABLE



31
Annex 4: Other
NOT APPLICABLE



32
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Years Ending FY 2001 and 2003
lYearl  l Year 2  lYear 3  lYear 4 l YearS  l Year 6  lYear7_
OTotal Financing Required    1,394,900   158,900   158,900
lProject Costs
Investment Costs           1,236,000        0          0
Recurrent Costs             158,900    158,900    158,900
Total Project Costs           1,394,900    158,900    158,900
Interest during
construction
Front-end Fee
Total Financing               1,394,900    158,900   489,618
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   1,282,400        0          0
Government                       0          0          0
Central
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries     112,500   513,178   489,618
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others                                           489,618
Total Project Financing       1,394,900   513,178   489,618     0        0          0         0



33
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    Year 5    Year 6   Year 7
OTotal Financing Required  1,394,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900
lProject Costs
Investment Costs        1,236,000        0         0         0         0         0         0
Recurrent Costs           158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900
Total Project Costs        1,394,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900   158,900
Interest during
construction
Front-end Fee
Total Financing            1,394,900   513,178   489,618   514,099   539,803   566,794   595,133
Financing
IBRD/IDA                1,282,400        0         0         0         0         0         0
Government                     0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Central
Provincial
Co-financiers
UserFees/Beneficiaries    112,500   513,178   489,618   514,099   539,803   566,794   595,133
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others
1,394,900   513,178   489,618   514,099   539,803   566,794   595,133
Total Project Financing'
Main assumptions:
* The time horizon for the financial projection is seven years.
* The tariff and cost estimates are based on the finding of the Bank funded "Kosovo Registries Modernization
study of November 2000" as well information provided by the PRU. The main estimates are:
0  Four thousand new businesses will register in FY 2002 ( and grow at a rate of 5% pa) at a cost of
DEM 150 per unit.
0  Five thousand companies in Kosovo out of 28,000 registered businesses will be required to prepare
and submit financial statements to the new fully-fledged Business Registration System at an estimated
cost of DEM 50 per unit.
0  One thousand businesses are estimated to be terminated at a cost of DEM 10 per unit.
0  The rate of growth for new businesses is assumed to be 5% over the next 7 years.



34
* The Exchange rate used is 2 DM = US$ 1.
* The project is expected to be fully operational by Quarter 4, 2001.
* Cost and tariff estimates are expressed in constant terms, using costs calculated in early 2001.
* Due to potential productivity increases, the operating cost will remain the same while the number of
businesses registered will increase.
Project Financing Plan (2001-2007) in US$



35
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
NOT APPLICABLE



36
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
'I."        PROCUREMENT
Procurement methods (Table A)
Section I. Consultants' Services
Part A:  General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and Section
IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published
by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines,
paragraph 3 of Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof to
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks under project components A, C, and D that meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines.



37
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Services for technical assistance, under project component A and estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Training
Training shall be procured on the basis of quotes obtained directly from training providers in accordance
with the procedure agreed upon with the Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of
consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of
all consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2. Prior review
(a) With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$ 100,000 or more, the procedure set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of
paragraphs 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 the procedures set forth in paragraph 1, and the first and third subparagraphs
of paragraph 2(a) of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank
for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have
been given.
3. Post review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedure set forth in
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Procurement of Goods
Part A: General



38
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of
the following Parts of this Section H
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I theretc.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. International Shopping
Readily available off-the shelf goods of standard specifications estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount not to exceed US$ 200,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2. National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated amount not to
exceed US$ 100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decision
1. Prior review
(a)With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more th.
procedure set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to the first two contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in
Part C 1 and 2 above, the procedure set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
2. Post review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph I of this Part the procedure set forth in
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.



39
DISBURSEMENT
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Grant would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C. It is
expected that the proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed over a period of two years. As there is no
standard disbursement profile for Kosovo, the disbursement forecast is based on previous experience. The
project Completion Date is March 31, 2003.
Retroactivefinancing
Due to the immediate requirement of the project to recruit a qualified FMS at the CFA and an advisor to
the registrar at the Commercial Court, the funding for these positions will be made using retroactive
financing method. Expenses up to US$ IOOK procured after February 13, 2001, for the purposes
identified above would be subject to refund from the grant funds. The refund will only be available after
the project becomes effective. The recruitment for these positions will be procured using World Bank
guidelines.
Use of statements of expenses:
Some of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
as follows: (a) goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent for each contract; (b) service contracts for
individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) service contracts for firms costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (d) training and study tours for less than $20,000 equivalent each.
Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. Statement of expenses will be certified locally by
the Central Fiscal Authority. Related documentation in support of statement of expenses will not be
submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the CFA for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This document will be made
available for review by the auditors and supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, including those
not justified by evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Account (SA), the Bank will have the
right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has
refunded the amount involved; or (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures
that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, UNMIK will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars, in a commercial bank acceptable to
the Bank. An initial authorized Special Account allocation of US$250,000 will be established. An
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$500,000 once the aggregate disbursements of
the Grant total US$ 750,000 or more. This relatively large Special Account is justified for several
reasons: (i) being able to authorize payments directly from the Special Account to contracts rather than
requesting any direct disbursements will be administratively easier for the CFA to manage; (ii) frequent
Special Account replenishment applications would be an undue administrative burden on the CFA; (iii)
the Special Account will be held in a very secure banking environment as it will be a sub-account of the



40
bank account containing all donor funds supporting the Kosovar consolidated budget; and (iv) the
Project has a short implementation period (two years), requiring a very quick disbursement method. The
minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment
applications should be submitted by the CFA at least every four months, and must include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Accounting
The Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), acting under the authority of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, is responsible for the overall financial management of the Kosovo Budget and the
budgets under the responsibility of the municipalities, which together form the Kosovo Consolidated
Budget (KCB). Specifically, the CFA is responsible for budget process and preparation, treasury
functions, revenue analysis, tax collection and customs administration. Currently, the CFA is funded
primarily through the International donor community and its day-to-day management is conducted by
international experts. One of its key objectives is to allocate, commit and track funds for public sector
spending through an automated system to enhance accountability and government financial operations.
To ensure that expenditures are consistent with the amounts and purpose set out in the KCB, regulations
have been approved by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. To prevent abuse and fraud,
explicit administrative instructions and procedures are in place for the commitment and expenditure of
public money. Also, in order to minimize the risk of fraud and malfeasance, an independent officer from
the procurement process checks and confirms that these rules have been adhered to. Detailed
descriptions of the instructions and procedures are found in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The mission discussed with the representatives of the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), the Bank's
reporting requirements for projects and the need for the establishment of a proper financial management
system to produce Project Management Reports (PMR). The representatives of the CFA explained to
the mission that the Treasury Department of the CFA was in the process of modifying its accounting
systems for the KCB, and for its single treasury account (STA), which would consolidate payments and
receipts of all line ministries and municipalities. The chart of accounts is based on the GFMIS. As the
participants under the project fall under the umbrella of the KCB, all project related payrnents would be
made via the STA, and the accounts would be maintained as part of the CFA's accounting system. The
current system, at the moment will not be able to produce the integrated PMRs (Financial report,
Progress Report and Procurement Management Report), as required by the IDA. However, the
modifications that are being carried out would enable it in the future to produce PMRs. In order for the
CFA to produce PMRs acceptable to the Bank the following steps will be taken:
*  A chart of accounts will be developed for the project by the CFA in coordination with the
Judicial Affairs Department, and will be incorporated into CFA's own chart of accounts with
budget classification codes based on the GFMIS;
*  An expatriate staff (funded out of the project) assigned to the Treasury Department of the CFA
will be in charge of producing the PMR as required by the Bank. He will have a counterpart in
the Judicial Affairs Department, who will coordinate project implementation and assist in the
preparation of the PMRs.
*  Modify the existing database to produce quarterly PMRs no later than September 30, 2001;



41
*  The CFA will utilize traditional Bank disbursement procedures and move to PMR based
disbursements once a Bank FMS has reviewed and certified the PMRs as acceptable for
disbursements.
*  The selection of an auditor acceptable to the IDA, to audit the project accounts no later than
October 31, 2001.
The Treasury Department of the CFA has:
*  adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and
accounting required for implementation of the project objectives; and
* proper monitoring mechanisms to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the
project as a whole, its various components, and each expenditure category as represented in the
Grant Agreement, by each funding source.
Project records will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards (LAS) as
issued by the International Accounting Standard Committee (IASD). An action plan for the
establishment of the Financial Management System is attached to the PIP.
PROJECTAUDITAND OTHER REPORTING
Project Audits
UNMIK is in the process of appointing Auditors to undertake annual audits of the entire consolidated
budget. It is proposed that the audit of the project accounts will be included within this audit. During
negotiations, arrangements for this audit and the terms of reference will be confirmed. If a separate
independent audit is necessary, then the costs for this audit will be considered as part of the Grant
expenditure. Project accounts, financial statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures
will be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing for Projects
Financed by the World Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing
Handbook (January 1995). In particular, International Auditing Standards (IAS) as published by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The CFA will provide the
Bank (within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the
Bank may reasonably request, including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on
disbursements against certified SOEs, or against PMRs. The opinion should mention whether the
SOEs/PMRs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
Project Reporting
The CFA will ensure that proper project documents are prepared and submitted to the Bank in a timely
fashion. These include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project financing, implementation
progress (including variance reporting), procurement progress and contract expenditure. The reporting
system will be in compliance with the formats provided by the Bank in the Project Financial
Management Manual (Exposure Draft, February 1999). A copy has been given to the CFA. These
include: project status reports, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress, problems
encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for actions; (ii) the current state of project indicators;
and (iii) the current costs of each project component and estimated costs of completion Procurement



42
reports, including those that describe the progress of procurement activities against the plans set forth in
the PIP, variations in progress, reasons for variations, and remedial actions; and bid evaluation reports,
as they arise in the procurement processes.



43
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements7
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category         P N   D   0. OMet..od.
,         s -KB-::  -te   ,                ,
1. Goods                           0.180      0.083                    0.263
(0.180)    (0.083)                  (0.263)
2. Services                                   2.132                    2.132
()        (2.132)        ()        (2.132)
3. Study tours and training                   0.093                    0.093
()     ~~(0.093)      ()(0.093)
4. Incremental Operating                      0.300                    0.300
cost
(          (0.300)        0        (0.300)
5. Unallocated                                0.212                    0.212
()        (0.212)                  (0.212)
Total                              0.180      2.82                      3.00
(0.180)    (2.82)                    (3.00)
Note:   N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other mniscellaneous items). The
procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need
to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
7For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



44
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
QCBS   QBS   SFB    LCS          CQ    Other  N.B.F
A. Firms                    1.35                           0.05                      1.4
()            ()      (0.05)           (        (1.4)
(1.35)
B. Individuals                                                     0.732             0.732
0)      0)    0)       0)       0)    (0.732)   (         (0.732)
Total   1.35                             0.05    0.732             2.132
(1.35)                  0       (0.05) (0.732)   0         (2.132)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



45
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review8
'.  ~~  ' , . ,', MB e *e ? . -7 -                             'j
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Works
2. Goods                   ->100,000            ICB                   =>0. 10
<100,000        International        First two packages
Shopping
<50,000       National shopping     First two packages
3. Services               >=100,000           QCBS                    >=0.10
<100,000           SBCQ                    <=0.1
Individual                 All
Consultant
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:       2.2
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6
month(s) includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
8Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



46
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
Goods                                 0.263                        100%
Works
Services                              2.132                        100%
Training/Study tours                  0.093                        100%
Incremental Operating                  0.30                        100%
Cost
Unallocated                            0.212                       100%
Total Project Costs                    3.00                        100%
Interest during
construction            __
Front-end Fee  __
3.00                       100%
Total                    __                   _



47
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Project Schedule                                             (b)      Planed(c)                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project                                5
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)                        10/16/2000                     10/16/2000
Appraisal mission departure                                01/17/2001                     01/17/2001
Negotiations                                               02/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness
Prepared by: UNMIK, ADJ, CFA, and World Bank
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Core Team
Gerardo Corrochano                                                Team Leader, Sr. Financial Economist
Ramin Shoiai                                                      Task Manager, Private Sector Specialist
Lubomira Zimanova Beardsley                                       Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.
Peter Kyle                                                        Sr. Counsel
Yves Duvivier                                                     Lead Financial Analyst
Hiran Heart                                                       FMS, Sr. Financial Analyst
Eszter Kovacs                                                     PAS
Joseph Formoso                                                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Kishor Uprety                                                     Sr. Counsel
Field implementation staff
Aurora Ferrari                                                    PSD Specialist
Quality Assurance
Paul Siegelbaum                                                   Sector Director
liham Zurayk                                                      Sector Manager
John Hegarty                                                      Regional Financial Management Advisor
Peer Reviewers
Douglas Alan Webb                                                 Managing Counsel
Waleed Haider Malik                                               Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.



48
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan consists of Terms of References for the implementation
of technical assistance.
C. Bank Staff Assessments
Kosovo Judicial Assessment, November 2000, By Lubormira Beardsley
C. Other
Kosovo Registries Modernization Report, November 2001 by Booz Allen Hamilton
*Including electronic files.



49
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
NOT APPLICABLE



50
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Kosovo, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
NOT APPLICABLE



W-1773.doc
Legal Department
CONFIDENTIAL REPORT
(Subject to Change)
KUprety
February 20, 2001
TF-
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
Dated                      , 2001






TF-
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of                     , 2001  between UNITED
NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting on the recommendation of its Board of
Executive Directors, decided on September 30, 1999, to transfer from Bank surplus, by way
of grant, $25,000,000 to a trust fund (the Trust Fund) for Kosovo, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo), established by Resolutions of the
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 99-7) and the Administrator (Resolution
No. IDA 99-4) and to be administered by the Administrator, to be used for financing an
emergency reconstruction program in Kosovo;
(B)   the Board of Governors of the Bank further decided on September 27,
2000, to transfer from Bank surplus, an additional amount of $35,000,000, (Additional
Contribution) to the Trust Fund;
(C)   the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the
Administrator to assist, from the Additional Contribution, in the financing of Part A of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend a grant to the Recipient for the benefit of Kosovo upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:



-2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" (the General Conditions) set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "ADJ" means the Recipient's Administrative Department of Justice;
(b)   "CFA" means the Recipient's Central Fiscal Authority;
(c)   "Eligible Category" means the category set forth in the table in Part A of
Schedule I to this Agreement;
(d)    "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services
for the Project;
(e)   "Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.



- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Grant Agreement, a grant in an
amount of three million United States Dollars($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such later date
as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the
Recipient of such later date.



-4 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 1.23 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator,
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
(b)    afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon from time to
time between the Recipient and the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and
furnish to the Administrator, on or about February 28, 2002, a report integrating the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and
(c)   review with the Administrator, by March 31, 2002, or such later date as
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator's views on the matter.



- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system,
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable
to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the Project.
(b)    The Recipient shall:
(i)    have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator,
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Administrator;
(ii)   furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B)
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning
said auditors, as the Administrator may from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last



-6 -
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than
September 30, 2001, or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i)    (A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the
Project for the four-month period following the period covered
by said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant during the four-month period following
the period covered by said report;
(ii)   (A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(iii)   sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)    Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) days after
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.



- 7 -
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section5.01. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been
fully disbursed and the parties have fulfilled their obligations thereunder.



- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United
Nations for Kosovo is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of
Section 1.28 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
1.26 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Intenm
Administration in Kosovo
Pristina
Kosovo
Facsimile:
873-76219-2837
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:                      Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423 (MCI) or              (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.      64145 (MCI)



- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of
the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
By
Authorized Representative



- 10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A.    General
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                      Dollars)            to be Financed
(1) Goods                        260,000                 100%
(2) Consultants' services,      2,110,000                100%
including audit
(3) Training,                     120,000                100%
including study tours
(4) Incremental Operating Costs   30G,000                100%
(5) Unallocated                   210,000
TOTAL                           3,000,000
For the purpose of the table above, the term "Incremental Operating Costs"
means the expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and
monitoring, including office space, office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and
supervision costs, and incremental staff salaries excluding salaries of officials and
employees of the Recipient.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after February 13, 2001.
3.    The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods, under contracts
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms, under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training



- Il -
and study tours under contracts costing less than $20,000, all under such terms and
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.    Special Account
1.    The Recipient shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account, in a
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.    After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    until the Administrator shall have received: (i) the first Project
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request
from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports,
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this
Schedule 1; and
(b)    upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management Report
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this
Schedule 1.
3.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Administrator
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project Management
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of
this Agreement;
(b)   if the Administrator determines at any time that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or
(c)    if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect
of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records



- 12 -
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.    The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time,
the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or
in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant
to Section 1.15 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Administrator
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and
shall notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.    (a)   If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the
Administrator may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator
shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly
upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding
amount.
(c)    The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.



- 13 -
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.    For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that,
unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the Grant Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 1.07 of the General Conditions,
shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $750,000.
2.    Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to
the Administrator requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the
Administrator shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient
shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to
Part B.3 of Schedule I to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Administrator
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under one or more of the
Eligible Categories.
3.    The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section
1.07 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the



- 14 -
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.



- 15 -
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
I     Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator
from the Grant Account under one or more of the Special Account's Eligible Categories.
2.    Each application for withdrawal from the Grant Account for deposit into the
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.    Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amount which the Administrator has determined, based on the
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date
of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the
amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $ 750,000.



- 16-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) facilitate the establishment and operation of
a modem business registry system; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the commercial and
supreme courts and improve the quality of legal services; and (iii) develop basic accounting
standards and to establish an association of accountants.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Development of a Company Registry
1. Design, setting-up, and operation of the new business registry through: (i) the
provision of technical advisory services to assist ADJ in drafting the new
legislative/administrative instrument which will establish the new business registry, design
the transitional mechanism by which the existing registration functions will be transferred
to the registry under the Commercial Court, and explore the possibility of developing a
pledge registry; (iii) the provision of technical advisory services on business registry
application and database development; (iv) provision of technical advisory services to
develop a public information campaign on the new business registration system and
training of key personnel at the Commercial Court; and (v) provision of technical advisory
services to assist the Recipient with the establishment of a new pledge registry using the
resources of the new fully-fledge business registration unit.
2. Acquis..ion of hardware, software, and other management information system
(MIS) to carry out the activities described in I above.
Part B: Strengthening of Court Capacity and Improvement of Legal
Services
1. Strengthening capacity of the Commercial Court and the Supreme Court
through: (i) the provision of training aimed at the ten sitting judges in the Commercial
Court and three judges in the Supreme Court, and selected practicing lawyers; and (ii)
preparation of a set of commentaries on the recently issued laws to promote consistent and
accurate interpretation of the laws and to increase the ownership and understanding of the
relevant legal concepts.
2. Inproving quality of legal services for small and medium businesses through the
design and carrying out of a pilot legal aide program focusing on the small and medium
businesses to compensate for the lack of relevant legal service in the market and to assist in
forming the core of specialized commercial lawyers, including provision of group of about
20 young law faculty graduates to provide legal advisory services free of charge or for
reduced fees.



- 17-
3. Acquisition of hardware, software, advisory services, and training to carry out
the activities described in 1 and 2 above.
Part C: Development of Accounting Standards
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to facilitate the
continuing development of the accounting requirements, including the development of
the necessary training materials, the delivery of training courses, and the design and
implementation of an appropriate regulatory regime to govern the accreditation of
accounting professionals, and the creation of an association of accountants.
Part D: Project Implementation
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and logistical assistance in the
carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.



- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
pTovisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning



- 19 -
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be fumished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
(a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)    With respect to the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with
the procedures referred to in Part C 1 and 2 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)    prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and
evaluation of quotations received; and
(ii)   the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
Part A: General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.



- 20 -
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants' services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto,
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and
cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.     Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Services for technical assistance under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.     Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.     Selection Planninz
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1
to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services shall be undertaken
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
(a)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.



-21 -
(b)    With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.    Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.



-22 -
SCHEDULE 4
General Conditions
Section 1.01. Application of General Conditions
Without lirmitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions
applicable to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General
Conditions:
(a)    "Administrator" means the International Development Association, acting
as administrator of the Trust Fund;
(b)    "Closing Date" means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the
recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
(c)    "Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United
States of America.
(d)    "Grant" means the grant provided for in this Agreement;
(e)    "Grant Account" means the account opened by the Administrator on its
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(f)    "Project" means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator; and
(g)    "Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether in
effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
Section 1.03. Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these General
Conditions.



-23 -
Section 1.04. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable.
Section 1.05. Valuation of Currencies
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine the
value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by
the Administrator.
Section 1.06. Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the Project in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except
as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made:
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories, other than the territory of Kosovo, which is
not a member of the Administrator or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 1.07. Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terns and conditions as shall be agreed
upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter into
special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant notwithstanding any
subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the Recipient.
Section 1.08. Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account
or to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 1.07
of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall deliver to the Administrator a written
application in such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as the
Administrator shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the
documentation required therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.



-24 -
Section 1.09. Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal category set forth
in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be insufficient to finance the agreed
percentage of all expenditures in that category, the Administrator may, by notice to the
Recipient:
(a)  reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and which in
the opinion of the Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(b) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
Section 1.10. Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of the
person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the authenticated
specimen signature of any such person.
Section 1.11. Suprorting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request,
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal requested in
the application.
Section 1.12. Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is entitled to
withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount to be
withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified in this
Agreement.
Section 1.13. Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement



-25 -
or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or increases, the Administrator
may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal set
forth or referred to in respect of such item in this Agreement as required to be consistent
with such policy of the Administrator.
Section 1.14. Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 1.15. Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be continuing,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)    The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under this
Agreement.
(b)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project
can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to perform its obligations under this
Agreement.
(c)    After the date of the Agreement and prior to the effective date, any event
shall have occurred which would have entitled the Administrator to suspend the
Recipient' s right to make withdrawals under the Grant if the Agreement had been
effective on the date such event occurred;
(d)    A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to the Agreement,
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the
Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
(e)    Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(f)    Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this
Section shall have occurred. The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant
Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, until the
event or events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, unless the
Administrator shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make withdrawals has been
restored in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 1.16. Cancellation by the Administrator



-26 -
If (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous period of
thirty (3) days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after consultation with the
Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to finance the Project's costs to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at any time, the Administrator
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant,
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or
of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or the execution of such contract,
without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the
Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Grant, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant or, (e)
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
Section 1.17. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Susension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts subject
to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 1.07 of
the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such commitment.
Section 1. 18. Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in this
Agreement.
Section 1.19. Cooperation and Infornation
(a)    The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the
Administrator shall:
(i)    from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange
views with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of
the Grant, and the performance of their respective obligations
under this Agreement; and furnish to the other party all such
information related thereto as it shall reasonably request; and



-27 -
(ii)    promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes
with, or threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in
paragraph (i) above.
Section 1.20. Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable in a freely
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 1.21. Use of Goods and Services
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 1.22. Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
Section 1.23. Records and Reports
(a)    The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Administrator's
representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and any plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the
performance of the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to
the Administrator at regular intervals all such information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)    Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract
price.



-28 -
(c)    Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to
the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Recipient and the
Administrator of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 1.24. Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated and
maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause
to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 1.25. Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 1.26. Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Delivery made by
facsimile transmission shall be confirmed by mail.
Section 1.27. Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Recipient
under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 1.28. Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for the



- 29 -
purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf of
the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto authorized in
writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such representative, such
modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances and will not
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement. The
Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other person of any
such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such representative any
modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement effected by such
instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially increase the
obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 1.29. Settlement of Disputes
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement which is not settled by
agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the
-JNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Section 1.30. Execution in Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an
original.






AGREED MINUTES OF NEGOTIATIONS
BETwEEN THE UNITED NAnONS INTERIM AD.MNSTELATION iN
Kosovo (REcpIPENT)
AND
THE INRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATioN (IDA)
REARDlING
THE Kosovo PRivATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TEcHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANT
I.    Negotiations for a proposed Trust Fund Grant of US$ 3.0 million for the Private
Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant were held between representatives of the
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (Recipient), and IDA on
February 22, 2001. Representatives of the Recipient and IDA are listed in the Annex to
these minutes.
2.    The objective of the proposed project is to improve the business-enabling
environrent for private sector growth. Specifically the project would:
(a) support the establishment and operation of a modern fully-fledged business
registry system;
(b) strengthen the capacity of the Commercial Court and the Supreme Court and
improve the quality of legal services;
(c) assist in the development of basic accounting standards, provide training for
local accountants, and assist in the establishment of an association   of
accountants.
3.    The Recipient and IDA representatives agreed on the draft Trust Fund Grant
Agreement between the Recipient and IDA dated February 20th, 2001.
4.    Conditions of Approval.
a) Appointment of Project Coordinators from ADJ and CFA, acceptable to the Bank.
b) Appointment of a Financial Management Specialist for the CFA, acceptable to the
Bank.
5.    Disbursement. IDA representatives noted that, in accordance with Section 1.13
of the General Conditions. IDA does not finance taxes. The Recipient confirmed that,
indeed, activities fimded under the Bank Grant will be tax-exempt.
6.    Financial Management. The Recipient confirmed UNMIK's agreement to the
disbursement mechanisms proposed under the Grant Agreement. It was agreed that the
time-bound action plan required by Section 4.02 of the Grant Agreement would consist of
the following:



Agreed Minutes of Negotiations        2                        February 22, 2001
* the CFA will hire a financial management specialist acceptable to the Bank to
be financed from the grant. This specialist will prepare the required project
management reports for all Bank financed Grants; and
*  the CFA will prepare the full complement of project management reports by
September 30, 2001.
7.    Accounts and Audits. It was agreed that Project accounts will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. IDA agreed to UNMIK's proposal
to contract an international auditor to undertake an audit of the Project accounts as part of
the annual audit for the entire Kosovo budget.
8.    Consultation with Recipient. For purposes of the Grant Agreement Article V
and Schedule I, the IDA representatives confirmed that before the Administrator
exercises its remedies under the Grant Agreement or takes any action which would result
in suspension or cancellation, the Administrator will first consult with the Recipient.
9.    Performance Monitoring Indicators. The Recipient and IDA representatives
agreed that the indicators provided in Atachment I will be used to monitor Project
implementation performance and impact. In respect to the performance indicator that
relates to availability of information from the fully-fledged business registry for tax
purposes, if during IDA supervision this indicator is proven to be unfeasible and
inapplicable it will be amended or discarded.
10.   Disclosure of Information. The IDA delegation informed the Recipient that in
accordance with its policy, IDA has to release the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) to
interested parties on request through the Public Information Center after the Project's
approval by IDA management. The Recipient confirmed that no text or data contained in
the project docunents were confidential or sensitive in nature and agreed that the PAD
may be released by IDA after signing of the Grant Agreement.



Agreed Minutes of Negotiations        3                         February 22, 2001
On behalf of the                     On behalf of the IDA
Recipient
ony Prwo-h-Stanley                  G
Co-Head, CFA                  The World Bank's Representative in
Kosovo
Europe and Central Asia Region
Date:_ __ __ __Date: ,                           _________
.. ~~~- lCHead
g Administrative Department of Justice
Date:  f2        , re     



Agreed Minutes of Negotiations       4                        February22,2001
Members of UNM1K
Anthony Preston-Stanley
Co-Head
Central Fiscal Authority
Sylvie Pantz
Co-Head
Administrative Department of Justice
John Cubbon
Officer-in-Charge, Prosecution Services and Court Administration
Administrative Department of Justice
Thuy Mellor
Accounting Advisor
Central Fiscal Authority
Kozeta Koja
Grant Management
Central Fiscal Authority
Elizabeth Rolando
Legal Officer
Administrative Department of Justice
Members of IDA Delegation
Gerardo Corrochano
Program Team Leader
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
Giuseppe Zampaglione
The World Bank's Representative in Kosovo
Europe and Central Asia Region
Hiran Herat
Senior Financial Management Specialist
Private and Financial Sector Development
Lurope and Central Asia Rtgion



Agreed Minutes ofNegotiations        5                       Febmy 22,2001
Kishor Uprety
Senior Councel
Legal Operations (LEGOP)
Joseph Paul Formoso
Senior Disbursement Officer
Financial Management and Disbursement Group
Ramin Shojai
Private Sector Development Specialist
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
Aurora Ferrari
Consultant
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region



Agreed Minutes of Negotiations        6                         February 22, 2001
Attachment I
Key performance indicators:
The grant will finance consultant services, training and equipment. Progress in achieving
the development objecfive will be assessed on the basis of:
(a)   Number of registered enterprises and turnover time of registration process;
(b)   Availability of information from the fully-fledged business registry for tax
purposes;
(c)   Number of completed cases at the Commercial Court;
(d)   Number of Judges and Lawyers completing the training programs;
(e)    Number of trained accountants, and the establishment of an association of
accountants.



