Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    Ftj3 tOPY
Report No. 2769b-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
August 11, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Conversion of Chilean pesos (Ch$) to US dollar values indicated in
this report was made at the rate of Ch$ 36.6 to US$1, which was
the average exchange rate for the month of June 1979.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 quintal (q) in Chile = 100 kg
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ALALC     -   Asociacion Latino Americana de Libre Comercio (Latin American
Free Trade Association)
ATE       -   Asistencia Tecnica Empresarial (Private Technical Assistance System)
BECH      -   Banco del Estado de Chile (State Bank of Chile)
BU        -   Unidad Basica de Asistencia Tecnica
(Basic Unit of Technical Assistance Service)
CB        -   Banco Central (Central Bank)
CONAF     -   Corporacion Nacional Forestal (National Forestry Corporation)
CORA      -   Corporation de la Reforma Agraria (Agrarian Reform Corporation)
CORFO     -   Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (Development Corporation)
ICIRA     -   Instituto de Capacitacion e Investigacion en Reforma Agraria
(Institute for Agrarian Reform)
IFICOOP   -   Instituto de Financiamiento Cooperativo (Cooperatives Financing
Institute)
IICA      -   Institute Interamericano de Ciencias Agricolas (Interamerican
Institute of Agricultural Sciences)
INDAP     -   Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Small Farmers Development
Institute)
INIA      -   Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (Agricultural Research
Institute)
IOD       -   Departamento de Organismos Internacionales (International
Organizations Division)
IPC       -   Indice de Precios al Consumidor (Consumer Price Index)
ODENA     -   Oficina de Normalizacion Agraria (Agricultural Normalization Office)
ODEPA     -   Oficina de Estudios y Planificacion Agricola (Agricultural
Planning Office)
ODEPLAN   -   Oficina de Planificacion Nacional (National Planning Office)
PI        -   Instituciones Participantes (Participating Institutions)
SAG       -   Servicio Agricola y Ganadero (Crop and Livestock Service)
SARA      -   Sociedad Agricola de Reforma Agraria (Agricultural Association
of Agrarian Reform)
SNA       -   Sociedad Nacional de Agricultura (National Agricultural Association)
UAF       -   Unidad Agricola Familiar (Agricultural Family Units)
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                     ....................                 1
A.    Agricultural Resources ........  .           ....................         1
B.    Agriculture in the Economy .....          .............                   2
C.    Recent Economic Policies Related to the Sector   ....                     2
D.    Agrarian Reform Implementation and Policies               .......         3
E.   Agricultural Services  ......   ..... ............. .                      6
II.    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND THE BANKING SYSTEM .............                        9
A.    Recent Policies and Characteristics                ...............        9
B.    Credit Demand ..................       ..     .................          10
C.   Credit Institutions ...* ................................... ...........  11
D.    INDAP and Lending to Small Farmers ................                      12
E.    Previous Bank Financing in the Sector .............                      15
III.   THE PROJECT ................................................ ..... o....        16
A.   Background .......................... o..............................     16
B.    Objectives and Brief Description   .........         ..........          16
C.    Detailed Features  ..          ...............................           17
D.   Project Costs ......................................................      20
Ei.   Financing .............................................. * .9........   21
F.   Procurement  ................... . . ................... .               22
G.    Disbursements  .....................................                     22
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................                       23
A.    Organization and Management  ............. .. .........                 23
B.    Development Plans and Technical Assistance    ......                    23
C.    Policies and Procedures under the Lending Program .                     24
D.   Accounting and Auditing  ...........................                      26
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation .........................                       26
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ................................                        27
A.   Background ......................................................         27
B.    Cropping and Livestock Patterns  ................          ...           27
C.    Technical Coefficients ................   .        ..........           29
D.    Incremental Production Assumptions  ....             ............        30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Chile in June/July 1979. The mission was composed of Messrs. J. Bazo, F. Lucca,
J. Pelissier, and D. Sutherland (Bank) and J. Link (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.  MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ................ ..      30
A.  Markets, Prices and Taxes .....      .....................  30
B.   Producer Benefits ................ ...................    31
C.   Project  Cash  Flow  ..................................   32
VII.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......... ............     34
A.   Benefits         ...........................................  34
B.   Poverty-Impact Analysis .....     ......................  35
C.  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis  ...      35
D.  Project Risk . .................. . . . .  .............    36
E. Environmental Impact ...   37
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........      37
ANNEXES
l   Supporting Tables
T.1  Land Distribution by Farm Size
T.2   Exports of Agricultural Products
T.3   Imports of Agricultural Products
T.4  Relative Importance of the Area
Expropriated from 1965 to 1973
T.5   Farm Model 1:  Central Valley/Mixed Crop - 70 ha
T.6   Farm Model 2:  Coastal Range/Small Irrigation - 3 ha
T.7  Farm Model 3:  Central Valley/2 ha Table Grapes
T.8  Farm Model 4:  Central Valley/5 ha Table Grapes
T.9  Farm Model 5:  Southern Central Valley/Vineyard
T.10 Farm Model 6:  Dairy Production - Small Farm
T.11  Farm Model 7:  Dairy Production - 100-ha Farm
T.12  Farm Model 8:  Beef Production Small Farm - 10 BIH - 50 ha
T.13  Structure of Investments under the Project
T.14  Project Costs by Items of Investment
T.15  Production Trends of Crops, Fruit and Nuts,
Wine, and Livestock
T.16  Economic Rate of Return Analysis
2  The Small Farmers Development Institute (INDAP)
T.1   INDAP - 1980 Budget
T.2   INDAP - Loans' Portfolio to December 31, 1978
T.3   INDAP - Comparative Balance Sheets 1977-1978
T.4   INDAP - Comparative Income and Expenses Statements 1977-1978
3  List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 14863



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL PROJECT II
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
A. Agricultural Resources
Land
1.01      According to the 1975/76 National Agricultural Census 2/, total
agricultural land in Chile covers about 37%, or 28 million ha, of the country's
76 million ha. Some 3.3 million ha are classified as arable crop land, 12.1
million ha as pastures (1.3 million ha improved and 10.8 million natural), and
12.6 million ha as forest land (of which 2 million are exploited natural and
planted trees). Therefore, the total area used for crop and livestock produc-
tion (exclusive of forestry) amounts to about 15.4 million ha (20% of country
area), with about 2 million ha under irrigation but only about 1.1 million ha
that can be irrigated regularly (85% efficiency). Detailed census data by
types of land and farm sizes are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
Climate
1.02      Chile has a great variety of climatic conditions due to its length --
about 4,300 km along South America's Pacific Coast -- and its narrow width --
averaging 175 km between the ocean and the high range of the Andes -- which
means that altitudes range from sea level to over 7,000 m above sea level.
From north to south on the basis of its ecological characteristics, mainly
temperature and rainfall, the country can be divided into five major zones:
desert, arid, Mediterranean, temperate and humid. The climate is hot and
dry in the north and changes progressively to cold and wet in the south.
Temperatures range from 180C in the far north to 6.6°C in the far south;
conversely, the rainfall increases from less than 25 mm in the north to
2,800 mm in the south (Map IBRD No. 14863).
Main Agricultural Areas
1.03      The area from the Aconcagua valley in the north to Puerto Montt in
the south accounts for only 29% of the country's total area, but for over
90% of the population and over 90% of the country in terms of number of farms,
arable land, irrigated land, horticulture, fruits and vineyards, and livestock.
Santiago, with a population of over 3 million, and the ports of Valparaiso and
San Antonio constitute the main centers for most of the local and export market-
ing of Chile's agricultural products. The main zones in this area are the
Central Valley, with a Mediterranean climate north of the Bio-Bio river and a
temperate zone south of the. river. The desert and arid zones north of the
Aconcagua account for approximately 40% of the country's area, but they are
1/   Detailed information is available in Bank Report No. 2390:  Chile/An
Economy in Transition, March 1979, and in the Project File, Annex 3.
2/   Advance data published by the National Statistics Institute, December
1978.



not suitable for agriculture except for a few irrigated valleys which make up
about 9% of the country's irrigated area. The humid zone south of Puerto
Montt is, in general, mountainous, humid, and windswept so that sheep raising,
forestry and some beef production are the main agricultural activities; it has
only about 1% of Chilean farms and about 3% of the arable land.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.04      In response to improved price incentives and security of land
ownership, following the consolidation of the agrarian reform and land titling
during the tenure of the present administration, agriculture in Chile exhibited
considerable growth between 1971 and 1978. Sectoral value added is esti-
mated to have increased from the depressed level of 1973 at an average annual
rate of 7%, but in 1978 it still stood at about 15% above the 1971 figure.
Another important effect of the new economic policies pursued since the end
of 1973 has been a substantial expansion of food and agricultural exports.
In 1978 agricultural exports represented 16% of total exports, excluding
copper. Agricultural imports were reduced by 35% in nominal terms, and the
agricultural trade deficit was reduced from US$169 million in 1971-73 to less
than US$50 million in 1977/78 (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3).
1.05      In 1979, the agricultural contribution represented only 9.5% of
GDP, compared to 11.2% in 1960, ranging from 8.4% to 10.1% between 1974
and 1979. In spite of its minor contribution to GDP, the agricultural sector
still provides occupation to some 540,000 people (1975), or about 20% of the
national labor force. The main source of agricultural jobs is the farms,
which have increased in number from 151,000, recorded for the 1954/55 census,
to 253,500 for the census of 1964/65, and to 315,000 for the 1975/76 census.
The increase that occurred in the real prices of agricultural goods, coupled
with the continuous growth of output, suggests a substantial shift of income
since 1973 toward the agrarian sector. At the same time, however, farm input
prices, including that of credit, were freed and rose sharply. There are no
firm data to ascertain or quantify the improvement of net incomes, but indi-
cators, such as the increased demand for credit to finance on-farm investments
and the high estimated rates of return for the development of crops grown in
the Central Valley and for livestock throughout the country would indicate
that the profitability of agriculture has improved for the majority of farmers.
C. Recent Economic Policies Related to the Sector
General
1.06      The traditionally poor performance of the Chilean economy has
frequently been attributed to underlying structural rigidities, monopolistic
industries, the secular deterioration of the international terms of trade of



- 3 -
primary commodities, protection practiced in foreign markets, and the capital
intensity of imported technology. Without denying the importance of many of
these structural characteristics of the Chilean and world economies, respon-
sibility must also be shared by domestic economic policy. Notwithstanding the
progress in land reform in the 1960s, low productivity in agriculture may have
continued to result from the psychology of latifundistas, but it was also the
logical consequence of discriminatory price controls and an overvalued exchange
rate. Similarly, concentrated industrial markets were encouraged by high
levels of protection and a cascading sales tax; the foreign trade regime
inhibited the growth and diversification of exports; and subsidized interest
rates and heavy payroll taxes stimulated the substitution of capital for
labor.
Agricultural Policies
1.07      Under the present administration, markets, prices and interest rates
have been progressively freed; subsidies have been eliminated; tariff and
non-tariff trade barriers have been drastically reduced 1/; exchange controls
have been largely eliminated; the crawling peg of the exchange rate was
re-established 2/; and foreign investment is being actively encouraged. In
addition, the role of the agricultural public institutions, which before the
end of 1973 totaled 27 independent agencies, loosely headed by the Ministry of
Agriculture, has been greatly curtailed. Many of the public services and
distribution channels, warehouses, and agro-industrial activities have been
closed or sold to the private sector.  It is the Government's announced
intention to limit its responsibilities in agriculture primarily to control-
ling and conserving natural resources, and providing plant and animal health
inspection and control services. Over the past two years, the Ministry of
Agriculture and its affiliated agencies have been under a gradual process of
reorganization based on a consultant study carried out in 1975/76 with
Bank financing under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1119-CH).
D. Agrarian Reform Implementation and Policies
Land Expropriations and Assignments before September 1973
1.08      Between 1965 and 1973, a total of 5,809 properties, involving nearly
10 million ha of land, were expropriated. Expressed in basic irrigated
1/   As of October 1979, to only 10% ad valorem for all goods except 40% for
powdered milk and from 90% up for most automobiles.
2/   Until June 27, 1979 when the exchange rate was set at Ch$ 39 to US$1.00.



- 4 -
hectares (BIH) 1/, the expropriated area accounted for 895,752 BIH, represent-
ing over 40% of the country's agricultural land area, half of the arable land
area and over 60% of the irrigated land (Annex 1, Table 4). During this
period, only about 1.1 million ha of the expropriated land (96,000 BIH) was
actually assigned to 9,886 families under group ownership; the groups were
mainly in the form of cooperatives or settlements (asentamientos) administered
by the Agrarian Reform Corporation (CORA) and other associative forms (such as
the Agricultural Association of Agrarian Reform, known as SARA). Practically
no individual farm titles were assigned up to August 1973.
Distribution and Titling of Land Since September 1973
1.09      Some 3 million ha (254,000 BIH) of expropriations were determined
to have been illegally confiscated and the land was returned to the original
owners. By December 30, 1979, CORA (and the Agricultural Normalization
Office) had assigned 37,885 Agricultural Family Units (UAF) 2/ to individual
beneficiaries; another 2,353 UAFs were assigned to individuals who were
members of collective farms, bringing the total to 40,238 UAFs. Added to the
9,866 UAFs assigned to cooperatives before 1973 (most of which have since
asked to be liquidated so that individuals can be assigned UAFs), the total
number of units up to December 31, 1979 was 50,124. These units occupy a
total area of about 3.8 million ha, representing about 502,000 BIH, most of it
the best arable and pasture land of the country. This significant titling
accomplishment was encouraged by the Government's commitment to accelerate it
under the Bank-financed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1119-CH).
1.10      After returning 3 million ha of the 10 million ha expropriated to
previous owners and assigning 3.8 million ha to individual beneficiaries,
CORA held as a reserve the remaining 3.2 million ha since most of it was
classified as forest or of low productivity and declared to be inappropriate
for individual assignment. Based on legislation passed since September 1973,
however, some 1.8 million ha has been transferred to non-profit public and
private-institutions, 600,000 ha has been sold at public auction, and 800,000
ha is yet to be disposed of through public sale transfers. In brief, the
distribution of the area expropriated up to December 30, 1979 was as follows:
I/    Agrarian Reform Law 16,640 of July 1967 established the basic irrigated
hectare (BIH) as the standard unit of measurement for farm land. One
BIH is defined as equivalent to 1 irrigated ha in the Maipo plain of the
Central Valley.
2/    The UAFs range in size from 5 to 12 BIH, with an average of 8-1/2 BIH.
They were sold at a reasonable price, to be paid in a 30-year term,
including two years of grace, at 6% interest per annum for the outstand-
ing balances of principal, adjusted by the Consumer Price Index (IPC).



-5-
Physical ha
Physical ha   BIH   % of Total    Equivalent
'000      '000    in BIH        to 1 BIH
Expropriations                         10,000       896        100            11
Returned to Previous Owners             3,000       254        28%            12
Assigned to 50,124 Beneficiaries        3,800       502        56%             7
Transferred and Sold by Public
Auction /1                            2,400       115       13%            21
To be Transferred or Sold -1              800        25         3%            32
/1   Principally grazing and forest land of doubtful agricultural quality.
1.11      The table would indicate that, while only about one-third of the
total land expropriated, measured in physical hectares, has been distributed
to reformed sector farmers, it has been of relatively high agricultural
quality and represents more than half of the expropriated land in terms of
BIH.  By the same criteria, the land returned to original owners appears to
have been of lesser quality and the land transferred to non-profit public and
private entities or sold by public auction, distinctly less suitable for
agriculture.
Minifundia
1.12      About 190,000, or 60% of the 315,000 farmers reported by the census
of 1975/76, are minifundistas, who for different reasons have long occupied
areas of the foothills and the coastal range. The minifundista in the Chilean
context is the owner of up to 5 BIH of relatively poor quality land, which, at
prevailing levels of technology and infrastructure, generally provides no more
than a minimum subsistence income. Consequently, most of the minifundistas,
besides working their own land, rent or sharecrop additional land and supple-
ment their incomes as either rural or urban wage laborers or through artisan
activities.
1.13      Many of the minifundistas have greater experience in farm manage-
ment and somewhat higher educational levels than the land reform beneficiaries
who have come mostly from the ranks of the landless labor force on expropriated
farms. However, since the agrarian reform carried out by the earlier adminis-
trations in Chile gave preference in the allocation of land to such landless
labor, the minifundistas have not benefited from the structural changes of the
past 15 years and continue to be handicapped by the constraint that their land
resource is scarce. Given their large number (about 190,000), the small size
of their present farms (0.1 to 5 BIH, 1 BIH average), and the particular
location of their individual farms, it is difficult in most cases to con-
solidate or augment their holdings. While for a few of the minifundistas,



- 6 -
the current size of their farms, depending on ecological conditions and
possibilities of sharecropping or renting, would provide an adequate basis for
viable farming, most of them have or need to find eventually, additional
supporting income from employment in the non-agricultural sector of the
economy.
1.14      In 1962, the Government, under the Agrarian Reform Law, established
the Small Farmers Development Institute (INDAP) to promote the economic,
social and cultural development of small-scale farmers (basically the mini-
fundistas) and fishermen and peasants (para 1.18). Since then it has provided
limited amounts of production and investment credit as well as technical
assistance to that segment of the rural population which had been traditionally
excluded from access to institutional credit (further details are given in
Annex 2).
E. Agricultural Services
1.15      In accordance with the principle of the present administration that
the State will assume a subsidiary role, the Ministry of Agriculture has been
reducing its functions to the minimum considered necessary. The general
.policy is to reduce the number of offices and staff on the Government payroll
and decentralize decision-making to 12 newly established regional offices.
Several offices have been reduced or closed, one of the main agencies being
CORA, which was closed as of the first of January 1979. The same law estab-
lished, for one year, up to December 31, 1979, the Agricultural Normalization
Office (ODENA) to finalize the land transactions pending with CORA. The
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture follows to a great extent the
recommendations of the consultant firm study financed under the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1119-CH).
Ministry of Agriculture
1.16      The various services of the Ministry are responsible for the orient-
ation and development of crop, livestock and forestry production. They
currently employ a staff of some 6,500, of whom 2,500 are professionals.
Government policy is to limit the role of the Ministry to that of an advisory
body; the direct provision of services is left to the private sector, except
when those services are not available. The services of the Ministry include
the Agricultural Planning Office (ODEPA), INDAP, the Crop and Livestock
Service (SAG), the Agricultural Research Institute (INIA), and the National
Forestry Corporation (CONAF).
1.17      Agricultural Planning Office (ODEPA).  The Office has responsibility
for (a) formulating sector policies, planning and programing; (b) formulating
policies with respect to price, credit, marketing, and taxation; (c) co-
ordinating regional and institutional proposals and activities; (d) planning
allocation of resources of the public sector for agriculture; (e) carrying out
or commissioning required studies; and (f) supervising the implementation of
agricultural plans and programs. ODEPA works jointly with the National



FM .nning Office (ODEPLAi). It includes three divisions and 10 regional
offices and has a total staff of some 131. The divisions deal, respectively,
with (a) policies, (b) planning and resource allocation, and (c) information
and operational services. The Projects Department within the planning
division is responsible for identifying, preparing and evaluating investment
and development projects and for determining priorities. It provides support
to regional teams involved in project preparation and evaluates their work.
It is responsible for the evaluation of project impact, and it gives support
to the operations department of the Central Bank (CB) for the assessment of
the agro-economic aspects of project lending.  The Department includes a
programing and training unit and a project evaluation and implementation
unit.
1.18      Small Farmers Development Institute (INDAP).  The Institute is an
autonomous agency of the Ministry of Agriculture, established in 1962 for
the purpose of assisting in the development of the rural poor, including small
farmers, fishermen, artisans and peasants, through the provision of credit and
technical assistance. Today INDAP is by far the principal source of agricul-
tural credit and technical assistance to small farmers, both for seasonal
operations and for investment. The provision of credit is closely tied
to technical assistance. Under the present administration, a major goal of
INDAP activities is to improve the economic position of small farmers to the
point that they can, in due course, obtain credit from the commercial banks.
An INDAP beneficiary must meet the following requirements:
(a) be a small agricultural producer or minifundista possessing,
under any form of tenancy, an area no bigger than the equiva-
lent of 12 BIH;
(b) derive at least 75% of his income from the exploitation of
the farm; and
(c) have no access to other credit sources and be willing to
accept technical assistance in accordance with a mutually
agreed program.
Additional information about INDAP is given in Chapter 2, Section D, and
in Annex 2.
1.19      The Crop and Livestock Service (SAG).  Up to the end of 1978, SAG,
divided into two departments, was responsible for the Government extension
services and for control activities related to plants, animals and renewable
resources other than forest. However, during 1978, major responsibility for
the provision of technical assistance to farmers was transferred to the
private sector (para 1.22) and early in 1979 the Government's Extension
Service was disbanded except for the INDAP staff. To carry out remaining
functions, SAG calls increasingly upon the private sector for services to be
provided under contract.



- 8 -
1.20      Agricultural Research (INIA).  A comprehensive, good quality pro-
gram of agricultural research is carried out by INIA. The Institute operates
a main station at La Plantina near Santiago, four other research stations, and
a network of seven substations, thus covering the main ecological zones of the
country. The research system, spearheaded by the Rockefeller Foundation in
the late 1950s and early 1960s, consists of 25 commodity-oriented programs
designed to develop full technical packages. Out of a total staff of 1,250,
200 are well-trained professionals. The institute maintains close links with
the international research centers. INIA has an annual budget of US$10
million, with Government providing 75% of funding and the balance coming from
the sale of agricultural products available from the various research programs.
Agricultural research programs are also carried out by the agronomic depart-
ments of five universities, but the programs suffer from the scarcity of funds
and lack of continuity. Although no formal coordination exists between INIA
and the universities, informal coordination prevails since many of the INIA
staff also teach at the universities. Private research activities are minimal
and relate primarily to seed production by the National Agricultural Associa-
tion (SNA) and by a seed company. A good deal of technical information is
available from progressive farms which introduce the latest techniques (e.g.,
drip irrigation, computer monitoring of dairy performance, and integrated pest
control).
1.21      The National Forestry Corporation (CONAF).  CONAF, created in 1972,
is responsible in general for the control of forestry resources and, specifi-
cally, for planning overall forestry development programs. It also administers
Government-financed afforestation on both Government and privately owned land.
These activities have expanded significantly in recent years, making CONAF one
of the more important entities of the agricultural public sector.
Private Technical Assistance System (ATE)
1.22      In line with its policy to replace public with private services
wherever possible, the Government established a program in mid-1978 to promote
technical assistance to farmers by private consultants. Under this program,
known as ATE, the Government subsidizes the services rendered to small farmers
with farms no bigger than 15 BIH. Consultants, who may be either individual
experts or specialized firms, are selected by the Regional Representatives of
the Ministry of Agriculture on the basis of a set of minimum requirements,
and, once approved, their names are inscribed on the National Technical Assis-
tance Roster kept by the Santiago office of the Ministry of Agriculture's
planning office (ODEPA). Small farmers entitled to the Government subsidy
select the consultant and sign a contract for a standard Government-approved
minimum package of assistance known as the "Basic Unit of Technical Assistance
Service (BU)." Each BU consists mainly of the following services: (a) pre-
paration of an annual farm plan; (b) assistance in obtaining credit; (c)
assistance in implementation of the farm plan; (d) analysis and interpretation
of results; and (e) marketing assistance. Each year the Ministry of Agricul-
ture estimates the cost of the BU and determines the proportion of subsidy to



- 9 -
be granted to the small farmers. Based on the experience of the first 18
months, during which ATE serviced some 14,000 small farmers, the price of a
BU for 1980 was set at US$250 per farm and the Government's subsidy at 60% of
the cost, or US$150. The farmers must contribute US$12.50 in advance from
their own resources and the balance may be financed under bank or INDAP loans.
The 1980 Government budget has included a sum of US$1.5 million for ATE
subsidies, which would cover some 10,000 farmers under the program.
II. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND THE BANKING SYSTEM
A.  Recent Policies and Characteristics
2.01      Credit policies since 1975 have been geared to reconstructing the
financial system and the capital market which had been disrupted by the hyper-
inflation of the past and as a result of previous policies, such as administered
interest rates and selective credit controls. The present Government, however,
has sought generally to free interest rates, gradually eliminate selective
credit lines and controls, and shift the credit allocation function back to the
private financial institutions, mainly by lowering reserve requirements on
deposits and encouraging borrowings from abroad. Inflationary expectations
and the period of extreme illiquidity through which the economy has passed
resulted in high real interest rates, the virtual disappearance of medium- and
long-term credit in the domestic financial market, and heavy inflows of foreign
capital. The situation has improved, however, as the rate of inflation
declined from about 400% in 1973 to about 39% in 1979.
2.02      In June 1975, the Government established the National Monetary
Council to recommend, set and supervise Government policies and actions
related to monetary and credit matters. The Council is chaired by the Minister
of Finance and it consists of the Ministers of Economy and of National Planning,
the President of the Central Bank, and a representative of the President
of the Government of Chile. As a result of Council policies and regulations,
the principal characteristics of Chile's institutional agricultural credit
system are as follows:
(a) outstanding balances of loans are adjusted according to the
variations of the Consumer Price Index (IPC), and interest charges
are applied to the adjusted balances;
(b) the banking system is completely free to set credit interest
rates on a market competitive basis, except when such credit
is derived from operations rediscounted by CB;
(c) as of 1979, CB provides rediscounting only for medium- and
long-term investment credit for high priority activities, as
is the case in agricultural investments, and, as an exception,
it rediscounts INDAP's short-term lending to small farmers.
Moreover, the CB rediscounting system has been functioning since
1975 basically with funds originating from international loan



- 10 -
agreements with the Bank, IDB and USAID and, in a minor propor-
tion, from its own resources. CB's lending program for 1980 con-
sists of (a) an IDB partially financed project (50%) for US$35
million, fully committed through the banking system mostly for
lending to commercial farmers, (b) some US$30 million of proceeds
from recoveries of previous USAID, IDB and the Bank projects, all of
which has been allocated to finance INDAP's credit program during
1980; and (c) a US$2 million balance of the Bank project financed
(50%) under ongoing Loan 1350 (paras 2.16, 2.17 and 2.18);
(d)  as of the 1980 agricultural season, CB is rediscounting investment
loans made by the banks at an annual interest rate of 10.5% and
those by INDAP at a rate of 8.5%. 1/ CB permits the intermediary
financial institutions a maximum spread of 3.5%. Therefore, interest
rates to farmers and other agricultural beneficiaries are of the
order of 14% for commercial farmers and of 12% in the case of small
farmers financed by INDAP. These rates were highly favorable up to
May 1980 compared to investment credit from other sources, which
ranged from 18% to 21% in real terms and also in dollar denominated
loans. However, as of June 1980, commercial rates in local currency
loans have gone down to around 14% to 16% and the same rates are
charged on dollar denominated loans. The source of the dollar loans
is borrowing from foreign banks, at 9% to 10% (LIBOR rate), on which
local banks obtain a 5% to 6% spread; and
(e)  during July 1979, the National Monetary Council passed regulations
reducing the required reserve on deposits and providing greater
incentives to foreign credit geared to lowering the local market
interest rates at least to the level of equilibrium with external
rates.
B. Credit Demand
2.03      There has been substantial demand for agricultural investment credit
since 1974, mainly because of existing favorable conditions for agricultural
development and favorable terms under which CB grants such agricultural
investment credit (100% rediscounting and interest rates much lower than those
of other sources). Thus, during this period, under two Bank-financed projects
with total lending of over US$100 million, the pace of disbursement was faster
than expected. Similarly, an IDB/CB agricultural credit project for US$35
million, intended to cover needs for two years, became effective in March 1979
and three months later was fully committed.
2.04      The Bank's best estimates of actual and projected demand, based on
statistics and recent studies and surveys 2/ (in Project File), are as follows:
1/ Except for rediscounting with proceeds of the Bank Loan 1350-CH (now fully
committed), which was 8.5% for financing small farmers, CB discounting to
banks is at 10.5%, regardless of the category of farmer financed.
2/ ODEPA Project Preparation Report, October 1978.



- 11 -
(a) total value of agricultural production in 1977 1/ was about
US$1,200 million at constant prices and is projected to
grow to about US$1,500 million by 1982. In 1977 institutional
credit financed about 27%, or about US$330 million (excluding
forestry), of the value of production that year; it is estimated
that this will grow to 35%, or about US$530 million, in 1982;
(b) agricultural investment credit demand has been estimated on
the basis of actual figures for 1977-79 (about US$90 million
each year) at 25% of total agricultural lending. Thus, lending
for investment purposes could easily reach US$115 million by 1980
and get up to about US$145 million by 1982, including some US$10
million for agroindustries; and
(c) on the basis of actual figures (1977-79), the investment credit
demand would be distributed as follows: about 35% for livestock;
25% to 30% for fruits and vineyards; 12% to 15% for agroindustries;
and 20% to 25% for annual field crops.
C. Credit Institutions
2.05      The principal institutional sources of agricultural credit in Chile
are the banking system and the specialized public institutions. The banking
system consists of CB; the State Bank of Chile (BECH), which has operated since
1975 under the same terms and conditions as the other 23 commercial banks; and
seven development banks (supposedly to lend only on the basis of specific
projects). The specialized public institutions are the Development Corporation
(CORFO), INDAP, and the Cooperatives Financing Institute (IFICOOP).
Central Bank (CB)
2.06      CB, which acts as fiscal agent for the Government, executes the
externally financed agricultural credit projects, mainly through its Interna-
tional Organizations Division (IOD). Since its organization in 1976, the IOD
has had major responsibility for negotiating and implementing the financial
aspects of agricultural development loans from the Bank, IDB and USAID. It
channels loan proceeds and its own resources under subsidiary loan agreements
with the banks and specialized institutions involved, and controls and super-
vises operations with the assistance of CB's Administrative and Accounting
Departments and in cooperation with the Agricultural Ministry's ODEPA.
The State Bank of Chile (BECH)
2.07      BECH is the largest institution of the banking system, accounting
for over 30% of the deposits and loans made in the country, 18% of the foreign
borrowing and 40% of capital and reserves of the total banking system. 2/
1/   Does not include fruits and vegetables.
2/   According to statistics of April 1979 published by the Superintendence
of Banks.



- 12 -
Since reforms were introduced tnder the 1976 Banking System Law, BECH func-
tions, activities, and operations have been placed in the same category as those
of commercial and development banks, and it has to assume the same obligations,
limitations and prohibitions that apply to other banks within the banking
system. To a great extent, its importance is derived from the fact that,
since its establishment (1953) and until 1975, it was the only bank handling
banking operations for public sector institutions and it was also the only
bank authorized to accept term deposits and savings accounts from the public.
BECH, with its nearly 200 field branches throughout the country, is still the
main provider of credit to the agricultural sector (70% of total in 1978) and,
up to 1978, was the only bank, which, under specific guarantee from CORA,
provided short-term credit to small farmer beneficiaries of the agrarian
reform.
Commercial Banks
2.08      As of June 1979, there were 23 commercial banks, besides BECH,
operating on a highly competitive basis, mainly for short-term deposits and
lending operations. Up to the end of 1975, commercial banks were not authorized
to handle medium- and long-term credit operations, but the restriction was
lifted in 1976 under the new banking system law. Thus, most commercial banks
are now financing investment credit for agriculture, mainly under CB's agricul-
tural investment lending programs supported by the Bank, IDB and USAID, under
which they receive 100% of the amounts on-lent to beneficiaries. The partici-
pation of the private commercial banks (not including BECH) in agricultural
lending, including short-term operations, declined from nearly 40% of the
country's total in 1965 to 3.5% in 1974, but, from that year, it has been
gradually improving, accounting for about 17% in 1977. Practically all of the
agricultural credit from private commercial banks has been used by commercial
farmers and by marketing and service cooperatives.
Development Banks
2.09      The main characteristic of development bank lending is that their
credit operations must finance (a) the preparation and execution of specific
projects; (b) the operation and investment costs of capital to be used in the
development of economic activities; and (c) the provision of technical assis-
tance for the preparation and execution of the projects. In conformity with
the 1976 Banking System Law, they can operate with local or foreign currencies
and their credit operations may be short, medium or long term. Development
banks are also authorized to have equity participation in new or existing
enterprises. As of June 1979, there were seven development banks in the
country, five of which have been active participants in the CB Agricultural
Investment Credits Programs.
D. INDAP and Lending to Small Farmers
2.10      INDAP's main objective is to promote the economic, social and
cultural development of small farmers. Traditionally, it has worked
mainly with the category of small farmers known as minifundistas (about
190,000), and possessing farms of less than 5 BIH, (para 1.12). In addi-
tion, the Ministry of Agriculture in 1979 assigned INDAP the responsibility
and resources to assist some 40,000 small farmer beneficiaries of the
agrarian reform possessing farms ranging in size from 5 to 12 BIH and some



- 13 -
5,000 families of the Mapuche Indian communities, who had been assisted
by the Institute of Indian Communities until it went out of existence in
1978. Up to 1975, INDAP was beset by institutional weaknesses, with
Government transfers being about its only source of funds. These transfers
were justified on social grounds, but, since they were non-repayable, lenient
lending policies and procedures resulted in poor loan recovery. However,
since 1976 INDAP has been undergoing a reorganization aimed at transforming
it into a more efficient body, with particular emphasis being placed on
improving investment project appraisal, providing technical assistance,
and administering of its loan portfolio.  Moreover, its lending program
is no longer financed by Government transfers but by CB rediscounting, with
total repayment risk assumed by INDAP. In addition, INDAP has contracted
a local firm to computerize its accounting system in order to free its field
staff for technical work. As a consequence of the reforms and the new lending
policies, INDAP's performance has improved substantially and its loan recovery
record for loans made since 1977 is highly satisfactory (over 95% at due
dates). Some of its improvements, especially in the accounting system, can be
credited to efforts under the Bank-financed projects 1119-CH and 1350-CH
(paras 2.15 to 2.18).
2.11      INDAP is managed by a Council chaired by the Minister of Agriculture
and administered by an Executive Vice-President. It includes four divisions
(administration, planning, financing and special programs); 12 regional offices;
and 93 area offices. Its present staff (1980) totals 1,352, down from 4,429
in 1973. About 281 are professionals, 302 are lower level technicians, and
the balance are support personnel and auxiliaries. The planning division,
which specifically deals with lending operations under the proposed project,
has a staff of 49, including 30 professionals and technicians. Through its
various credit and technical assistance programs, INDAP has increased its
coverage from about 33,400 families in 1973 to 38,000 in-1976, 52,000 in
1978 and over 60,000 in 1979. The Government, through the Ministry of Agri-
culture's budget, finances the administrative and most of the operating costs
of INDAP. The 1979 and 1980 allocations for this purpose have been of the
order of US$12 million each year, exclusive of separate allocations for specific
programs such as the assistance for Mapuche Indian communities and procurement
of housing and sites for some of the agrarian reform beneficiaries. With these
rsources, INDAP in 1979 added 120 new professionals to its staff and purchased
78 vehicles for its field fleet (presently 230 vehicles). Moreover, as of
December 31, 1979, the Government transferred to INDAP the offices and all
other fixed assets (except agricultural land) that had previously belonged
to the agrarian reform offices of CORA and later ODENA, both of which have now
been closed (para 1.15).
2.12      Starting in 1979, INDAP became by far the principal source of agri-
cultural credit for small farmers, both for seasonal operations and for invest-
ment credit. During that year it financed a lending program of about US$34
million, and its lending program for 1980 is of the order of US$43 million.
In both the years, investment credit amounted to about 40% of the total and
short-term production credit to about 60%. From about 1975 and up to 1978,
production credit assistance to small farmer beneficiaries of the agrarian
reform was provided by BECH, under guarantee contracts with CORA, while INDAP
financed and provided technical assistance only to minifundista farmers (less
than 5 BIH) and other small farmers (5 to 12 BIH) which were not affected
by the agrarian reform. However, starting in January 1979, with the closing



- 14 -
of CORA, BECH ceased to finance reformed farmers, and the Government, to
solve the problem, gave INDAP responsibility for assisting the reformed
farmers during 1979 and later extended it to 1980. The Government preference
would be that the economically viable reformed farmers be increasingly served,
like commercial farmers, by the private banking system. However, given the
large credit demand from commercial farmers, the scarcity of credit resources
and the comparatively higher costs and risk involved in lending to small
farmers, it may be some years before conditions become sufficiently attrac-
tive for private banks to undertake lending to a substantial portion of the
reformed farmers.
2.13      In order to stimulate commercial bank lending to small farmers,
the Government has taken several measures to improve the conditions that
have made lending to small farmers unattractive. First, at the end of
1978, it converted the land mortgage of the reformed farmers in favor
of CORA into an annual land tax, equivalent to the annual payment quotas
pending (25 to 28 years), payable directly to the Treasury in the same
manner as any other real estate tax. Therefore, as of January 1979 reformed
farmers could offer their land as collateral to obtain credit from banks
or other financial institutions. Second, the Ministry of Agriculture,
with INDAP assistance, implemented a crash program to provide titles to
thousands of agricultural properties of minifundistas and other small
farmers, who, for various reasons, mainly acquisition by inheritance, had
no titles. Third, in December 1979, the Government issued a decree under
which all loans made by BECH and CORA to reformed farmers before 1978
that had repayments overdue and, in most cases, were under legal process,
were automatically consolidated for repayment on the same long-term basis
(25 to 28 years) as the CORA land mortgages. The annual interest rate was
6% on outstanding balances, adjusted by the Consumer Price Index. Fourth,
another decree, also issued in December 1979, authorizes that, in the case
of small farmers, loan guarantees involving land or chattel mortgages can
be written under private documents instead of the costly and time-consuming
legal deeds registered by public notaries. Such documents now require only
the signature of the lender, the borrower and one witness, who can be
either a notary or an INDAP staff member specifically assigned for the
purpose. Moreover, land mortgages need to indicate only the location of
the farm without having to specify its boundaries. Fifth, during 1978,
the Government established ATE, a subsidized private technical assistance
system (para 1.22), designed to help improve the absorptive capacity
of small farmers and to assist them in obtaining institutional credit.
2.14      In addition to all these measures, the Government is preparing
to establish a Small Enterprises Guarantee Fund 1/ with the following
features: it would have an initial Government contribution of the order
of US$4.5 million equivalent; fund beneficiaries would be small enterprises
with net assets not exceeding US$50,000, and, in the case of farmers, holdings
could not exceed 15 BIH; and the maximum amount of any loan to be guaranteed
1/   To include small-scale industrial and agricultural sector producers.



- 15 -
by the Fund would be US$18,000 equivalent, with the Fund's guarantee covering
up to 70% of the amount of the loan. Given the advanced stage of the proposal,
its implementation may be expected by the end of 1980.
E. Previous Bank Financing in the Sector
Loan 1119-CH
2.15      A Bank loan of US$20 million to partially finance an
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project was signed in June 1975 and became effec-
tive in September 1975. The loan financed 36% of the total US$55.5 million
project costs, with the Government contributing 36% and sub-borrowers the re-
maining 28%. The project, which provided short-term production credit (82%),
medium-term investment credit (17%) and technical assistance (1%), was implemented
by CB through some 12 participating banks and specialized lending institutions.
The loan was fully disbursed by October 1976, with the project achieving
satisfactory results that were close to appraisal goals. Altogether, the
project helped finance 16,731 subloans which benefitted about 42,000 small-
scale farmers and about 4,000 medium-scale farmers. About 30,000 of the
small-scale farmers were members of 1,388 cooperative groups scattered through-
out the country. Performance details and other aspects of project execution
are covered in the Project Completion Report, dated January 30, 1978, and
Project Performance Audit Report No. 2595, dated June 29, 1979. It was con-
cluded that the project contributed to the recovery of the agricultural sector
not only through direct support of production but also through its interest in
the successful completion of land reform (by accelerating the issue of land
titles) and the liberalization of agricultural prices.
Loan 1350-CH
2.16      Another Bank loan for US$25 million to partially finance a Livestock,
Fruits, Vineyards and Agroindustry Credit Project was signed in March 1977.
Total project cost was estimated at US$62.5 million, with the Bank financing
the US$25 million foreign exchange cost (40%). The Government was to con-
tribute US$25 million (40%) and the remaining US$12.5 million was to come from
the beneficiaries. The project consists basically of a US$50 million lending
program to finance medium- and long-term investment loans for on-farm develop-
ment of livestock, fruits and vineyards and related agroindustries. In
accordance with the Loan Agreement, US$10 million (20%) of the lending program
is earmarked for farms of less than 5 BIH. The project is being implemented
by CB through some 17 participating banks and INDAP, which, in turn, on-lend
to project beneficiaries.
2.17      The loan became effective in June 1977, and, because demand from
commercial farmers for investment funds was greater than expected, lending to
them quickly reached and stayed at a level far above appraisal estimates.
Lending to small farmers, mainly minifundistas, however, gathered momentum
gradually in view of the greater effort involved in serving such farmers. As
of June 30, 1980, project funds were fully committed, and total Bank disburse-
ments amounted to US$23.6 million (94%). Full disbursement is expected by the
end of 1980.



- .6 -
2.18      Lending to minifundistas was especially slow during the first year
of implementation, till certain restrictions were removed and certain proce-
dural aspects were clarified. Apart from the lack of interest on the part of
the participating banks to lend to this type of beneficiary, an important
factor was that INDAP, the major provider of credit and technical assistance
to minifundistas, was in the process of reorganization. Lending to this
category of beneficiaries, however, improved substantially during 1979,
with the target of US$5 million being nearly reached. Thus, in general, the
performance of the project can be considered satisfactory in all aspects. An
important accomplishment under the project is the improvement being made
in INDAP's accounting system.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      The Government of Chile has requested a Bank loan to help finance an
agricultural credit project that would provide credit and technical assistance
for on-farm development and production and related marketing and processing
facilities. The project would be a follow-up to the Livestock, Fruits,
Vineyards and Agroindustry Credit Project financed with a Bank Loan 1350-CH
(paras 2.16 and 2.17). The proposed project was prepared by ODEPA, with Bank
assistance.
B. Objectives and Brief Description
Project Objectives
3.02      The project's main objectives would be to increase agricultural
output, including that of several export crops for which Chile has apparent
comparative advantage, and to assist small farmers, including beneficiaries of
the agrarian reform, to become commercially viable. The project has been
conceived in line with national and sectoral policies and objectives, which,
with the completion of the long process of agrarian reform, have as a main
priority the capitalization and modernization of agricultural production and
its related marketing and processing activities.  The project is also in
accord with the Bank's lending strategy and primary goals for the country.
Brief Description
3.03      The project would consist of a lending program and the provision of
technical assistance for the agricultural sector. Over a 2-1/2 year commitment
period, it would finance viable farm plans, as well as feasible investment
plans for the development of related agroindustry projects, including facili-
ties and installations for processing, storage and marketing. Subloans would



- 17 -
be made to project beneficiaries over a 2-1/2 year period on a countrywide
basis. The project would be broader in scope than the ongoing agricultural
project, financing any viable on-farm investment except forestry or fisheries
development. However, as in the ongoing project, the development of live-
stock, fruits, vineyards and agroindustries would constitute the core of the
project. The main investment items would be on-farm irrigation rehabilitation
works, farm machinery and equipment, cattle handling and milking facilities
and installations, fencing, vineyards and fruit orchard establishment, improved
pastures, and breeding cattle. The subloans would also cover incremental
production inputs. In the case of agroindustries, investments would consist
of equipment and installations to handle the processing and marketing of farm
products financed under the project.
3.04      The Government of Chile would be the borrower and would bear the
exchange risk. CB, as fiscal agent of the borrower, would be responsible for
the financial administration and control of project funds, and ODEPA, repre-
senting the Ministry of Agriculture, would be responsible for the technical
aspects of project implementation and supervision. Lending program resources,
contributed by the Bank and the borrower, would be channeled by CB to commer-
cial banks, INDAP and other financial institutions under subsidiary loan
agreements specifying terms and conditions for their on-lending to farmers and
other project beneficiaries. Subloans to project beneficiaries would be made
on the basis of farm plans, or, in the case of agroindustries, feasibility
studies. Technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of
investment plans would be provided by INDAP, private sector technicians
and consulting firms (para 4.05).
3.05      Project beneficiaries would be agricultural producers, either as
individuals or as members of cooperatives or similar forms of associations,
and agroindustry enterprises. It is estimated that about- 80% of the benefi-
ciaries would be small-scale farmers (defined as farmers possessing up to
12 BIH) who would receive no less than 33% of project funds, not including
the benefits derived from the agroindustry subloans, which, in many cases,
would be made to cooperatives with small-scale farmer members.
C. Detailed Features
General
3.06      The project would provide investment credit, incremental production
credit to small farmers and technical assistance to help finance on-farm
development investments on about 3,320 farms and small- and medium-size
agroindustry development investments that would be made by some 90 cooperatives
and private enterprises. On-farm investments would cover a wide spectrum of
farm/ranch sizes and production patterns throughout the country although the
largest part of the development would probably take place in the fertile central
part of the country located between the Aconcagua valley in the north and
Puerto Montt in the south. On-farm investments are expected to be primarily
for the development of export fruits for which the country has international
comparative advantage and for the production of annual food crops and live-



- 18 -
stock products that may substitute for imports on a competitive basis. Two
types of subloans would be financed for on-farm investments. The first would
consist of subloans for comprehensive farm development investment projects,
which would be prepared and appraised on the basis of detailed farm plans.
The majority of the on-farm investments to be financed under the project would
fall under this type. The second type would finance single inputs, which
would be "complementary investments" on viable farms that already possess most
assets necessary for an efficient operation but require additional investments
in farm machinery and equipment, replanting, cattle handling facilities, and
on-farm tracks or roads, as well as land rehabilitation works to complete,
expand or modernize the ongoing farming activity. In particular, subloans for
complementary investments would be relevant to lending to small-scale farmers
whose farm development investments have been traditionally financed in stages
rather than with one-time, comprehensive loans. These subloans would be
appraised on the basis of simple cash flow projections to determine the merits
of the proposed investments.
Farm Models and Investment Categories
3.07      The wide range of environmental conditions and the varying export
and domestic marketing opportunities permit a wide range of production
possibilities and, hence, of investments that might be financed. Therefore,
the eight farm models selected for this report (Annex 1, Tables 5 to 12 and
Annex 3) are intended only to reflect national trends in farm development
investments and probably also represent the most profitable alternatives open
to farmers, considering the prevailing policy of free markets and the high
cost of borrowing. The models are based on the cropping and livestock patterns
described in paragraphs 5.02 to 5.05. The investment plans presented in the
models serve mainly to indicate the order of the rate of return and provide
the basis for project budgeting calculations and should not be considered as
rigid guidelines for project implementation.
3.08      The following table shows the estimated number of farm plans by
investment category, the average size of investment per model, and the total
amount of investments expected under each category. The same information is
given for the categories of single input complementary investments and agro-
industries and services. Further details are given in Annex 1, Table 13 and
in the paragraphs which follow.



- 19 -
Average   Total Amount
Investment      to be
Farm            Main                                 Number of    per Farm    Invested
Model  Production Investments           Farm Size   Subloans    At Prices of June 1979
ha  BIH                     -----US$'000--------
Field Crops, Vegetables,
Fruits
1      Mixed Crops/Grains,
Pulses, Onions, Alfalfa        70   56        160          103.0        16,500
2      Corn/Strawberries/Asparagus,
Other Annual Fruits/
Vegetables                      5  1.5        400            5.8         2,350
Fruit Trees, Table Grapes,
Vineyards
3      Table Grapes                      15   12        650            7.9         5,150
4      Table Grapes/Peaches              70   56        250           47.1        11,800
5      Vineyards (for wine)              30   12        500            5.9         3,000
Livestock
6      Dairy, Small-size Farm            60   10        300           18.4         5,500
7      Dairy, Medium-size Farm          200   63        140           79.0        11,400
8      Beef/Sheep                        60   10        400           12.2         4,900
Single Input Complementary
Investments
N.A.   Small-size Farms                   1 to 12       320            5.0         1,600
N.A.   Medium-size Farms                 12 to 80       200           10.0         2,000
N.A.   Agroindustry and Services    N.A.  N.A.           90          120.0        10,800
Total Baseline:                            3,410                       75,000 /1
/1   Exclusive of price contingency, estimated at 20% (US$15 million).
3.09      The main items of investment to be financed for on-farm development
plans would be farm machinery and equipment, amounting to about 40% of the
total project cost: breeding stock, 15%; fertilizer and chemicals, 10%;
fencing and trellising, both consisting mainly of wire and posts, 10%; labor,
7%; and civil works, consisting of land improvement and other installations,
6%. Regarding investments in agroindustry and services, it is estimated
that about 40% would be for civil works and locally produced materials and
about 60% would be for machinery and equipment. Details regarding project
costs by item of investment, estimates of the foreign exchange cost of such
items, the phasing of investments and estimated price contingencies are
given in Annex 1, Tables 14 and 15.



- 20 -
Agroindustry and Services
3.10      Under this category, the project would finance investments for the
establishment, expansion and modernization of private enterprises or coopera-
tives dedicated to activities related to storage, marketing or processing of
farm products. It is expected that most of the investments financed under the
project would be related to fruit cold storage and packing plants, dairy
processing, wine production, cleaning and grading facilities related to
export of pulses and fruits, and contractor farm machinery pools. As in the
case of Bank IDF lending, due to the disparate individual characteristics of
the expected 90 subprojects to be financed, it is not possible to produce
representative models ex ante. Financing of such investments under the
project in every case would be done on the basis of feasibility studies
supporting their economic viability.
D. Project Costs
3.11      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$90.0
million equivalent, of which about US$36 million, or 40%, would be foreign
exchange costs net of import duties and taxes. Project costs have been esti-
mated on the basis of June 1979 prices, plus 20% over the project baseline
cost (US$75 million) to compensate for expected price increases, on the
assumption that the project would become effective by December 30, 1980 and
investments would be phased over about 2-1/2 years.
3.12      About 13% of project costs consist of sales and other taxes (US$12
million) imposed by the Government on investment inputs (para 6.04). The
following table summarizes the cost estimates by main type of development
activities financed under the project:
Investment Category 1/           Local      Foreign     Total   Foreign Exchange
------- US$ million -------   -- Percentage --
Fruit Trees, Table Grapes and
Vineyards                        18.5        6.3        24.8          25
Livestock (mainly dairy)           16.5       11.0        27.5           40
Field Crops and Vegetables          9.0       11.3        20.3           55
Single Input Complementary
Investments                      2.2         2.2         4.4          50
Agroindustry and Services           7.8        5.2        13.0           40
Total:                  54.0        36.0       90.0           40
1/   Details on investment items are given in Annex 1, Table 14.



- 21 -
E. Financing
3.13      Financing of the project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Project Beneficiaries                               Participating
Category             Sub-borrowers      CB     Institutions    Bank  Total
-----------------------US$ million-----------------
Small-scale Farmers            3.0           12.0         -           12.0   27.0
Medium-scale Farmers and
Agroindustry               15.0            9.6        14.4         24.0   63.0
Total:              18.0           21.6       14.4          36.0   90.0
Percentage:                   20%            24%         16%          40%    100%
3.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$36 million would finance the entire
foreign exchange cost, which has been estimated at 40% of the total project
cost, including price contingencies. The Government through CB would con-
tribute US$21.6 million equivalent (24%), the participating institutions would
finance US$14.4 million (16%), and project beneficiaries would finance the
remaining US$18.0 million (20%). The Government would be the borrower and
would carry the exchange risk. The Bank loan would be made for a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, at the interest rate prevailing at the
time of loan approval.
3.15      The core of the project would be the lending program, amounting to
US$72 million, to be financed with the US$36 million (50%) from the proceeds
of the Bank loan, US$21.6 million (30%) contributed by CB and US$14.4 million
(20%) contributed by the participating institutions (PIs). Lending terms and
conditions between CB and the PIs and between the PIs and project beneficiaries
would be set out in the subsidiary loan agreements (para 4.16) to be entered
into by CB with each PI. Repayments from CB rediscounting to PIs would accrue
to a separate account under the project lending account in CB and the amounts
not used to meet the debt service on the Bank loan and CB operating expenses
attributable to the administration of the project, including the costs of
project monitoring and the evaluation report (para 4.18), would be used for
further lending for the agricultural sector. Assurances were obtained from
the Government at negotiations that the contribution of US$36 million
corresponding to CB and the PIs and the proceeds of the US$36 million from
the Bank loan would be made available to the lending program and that repay-
ments of CB rediscounts, net of project administration costs, would be used
for future lending for the agricultural sector.
3.16      A minimum of US$24 million (about 33%) of the lending program would
be reserved for lending, mainly through INDAP, to small-scale farmers (para
3.05), and the subsidiary loan agreements, among other lending terms and con-
ditions, would establish the allocation scheme for the funds reserved for such
lending. Within the first year of project execution, the Borrower and the Bank
jointly would review the status of commitments for subloans under this compo-
nent of the project. Assurances on these points were obtained at negotiations.



- 22 -
F. Procurement
3.17      The range of goods financed under the project is varied and would
be procured by approximately 3,400 project sub-borrowers over a three-year
investment period; therefore, bulk procurement through international competi-
tive bidding would not be suitable. Sub-borrowers would purchase items of
their choice from local, established commercial agents, who represent a broad
spectrum of international and domestic suppliers. Major suppliers of farm
tractors and equipment, fertilizers and chemical products from Bank member
countries are represented in Chile, and service is satisfactory throughout the
project area. There are no foreign exchange or other types of restrictions on
the importation of any of the items financed under the project. Import duties
are only of the order of 10%, including imported products that compete with
locally manufactured items. Animals for breeding and planting material are
available from local sources and are of good quality.
G. Disbursements
3.18      The Bank would disburse over a period of about 3-1/2 years, 50% of
the amounts previously disbursed by the participating banks and financial
entities for subloans to project beneficiaries for a total of US$36 million.
The loan proceeds would be allocated and disbursed under two different
categories of beneficiaries to be financed: Category 1 -- small-scale
farmers (up to 12 BIH), and Category 2 -- medium- and large-scale farmers and
agroindustry enterprises. A sum of US$12 million, representing the minimum of
33% of the loan proceeds, would be earmarked for small-scale farmers under
Category 1. The Bank would reimburse CB for project subloans made by the PIs
against statements of expenditures, which would be certified and documented by
each participating entity. The documentation for the expenditures would not
be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the PIs for review during
the course of Bank supervision missions.
3.19      The estimated schedule of Bank disbursements, assuming that the date
of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be no later than December 30, 1980,
would be as follows:
Bank FY               1981      1982     1983      1984
FY Semester          1 - 2    1 - 2    1 - 2    1 - 2
Disbursement         -----------US$ million----------
During Semester      -   6    8  10    4   4    2   2
Cumulative           -   6   14  24   28  32   34  36



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      CB, acting as the fiscal agent of the Government, would have
overall responsibility for the execution of the project, and the Ministry of
Agriculture, represented by ODEPA, would be responsible for technical super-
vision. CB would coordinate the different aspects of project implementation.
4.02      CB's International Organizations Division, through its Operations
Department, would administer the financial resources of the project and,
therefore, would be responsible for all financial dealings with the Bank and
with the participating banks and other lending institutions. Some 15 to 20
commercial banks and INDAP, under subsidiary loan agreements with CB (para 4.16),
would channel subloans to project beneficiaries.
4.03      It is expected that, as in the case of the ongoing Bank-financed
credit project (1350-CH), the bulk of project funds earmarked for lending to
small farmers would be channeled through INDAP. However, it is expected that
as a consequence of the various measures taken recently by the Government to
stimulate commercial bank lending to small farmers (para 2.13), such category
of farmers will be increasingly served by the banks.
4.04      ODEPA (para 1.17), as part of its responsibility for project technical
supervision, would specifically: (a) assist CB and PIs, at their request, in
analyzing subloan applications; (b) supervise the implementation of investments
financed for on-farm and agroindustry development; and (c) in coordination
with CB, establish and operate the project's monitoring and impact evaluation
systems (para 4.18).
B. Development Plans and Technical Assistance
4.05      All subloans for on-farm development investments and for agroindus-
tries would be based on farm plans or feasibility studies, which would demon-
strate the technical, financial and economic justification of the proposed
investment. In every case, subloan approvals by PIs would specifically require
sub-borrowers to have proven technical capacity to carry out their proposed
development investments, or, in its absence, assurances that the sub-borrower
would receive adequate technical assistance. Small farmers, depending on
their capacity to pay, are eligible to obtain free technical assistance from
INDAP or partially subsidized assistance provided under the ATE program (para
1.22). The ATE services can be used by small farmers borrowing from the banks
or INDAP. Whenever technical assistance is to be paid for, fully or partially,
by the project beneficiaries, such cost may be financed by the project subloans.



- _4 -
C. Policies and Procedures under the Lending Program
The Lending Program
4.06      Resources of the lending program would be allocated under two
categories related to the type of beneficiaries: (a) small-scale farmers
and (b) medium- and large-scale farmers and agroindustry enterprises.
A minimum of 33% of the lending program would be earmarked for lending to
beneficiaries in the category of small-scale farmers over the three years set
as the period for the phasing of investments under the project (para 3.16).
4.07      Credit to sub-borrowers would be channeled through participating
banks, INDAP and other financial entities under subsidiary loan agreements
with CB (para 4.16). CB would distribute the resources of the lending
program to the PIs on the basis of: (a) their individual capabilities to
lend to the respective categories of beneficiaries considered under the
project, and (b) the annual requirements of the National Monetary and Credit
Program.
Participating Entities
4.08      CB would determine the eligibility of institutions wishing to
participate under the project, but minimum requirements would be that each:
(a) is a part of the banking system, which is under the fiscal control of
the Superintendent of Banks, or, otherwise, a Government entity under
the fiscal control of the Government's General Comptroller's Office;
(b) has or would employ personnel capable of analyzing and supervising
technical, financial and economic aspects of the investment plans
that might be presented for financing under the project; and
(c) has an accounting system that would permit the establishment of
separate project accounts and a reporting system that would keep
CB and the Bank constantly informed with regard to project operations.
LendinR Terms and Conditions
4.09      The Bank would reimburse CB for 50% of the amounts of subloans made
by the PBs to project beneficiaries. CB would reimburse (rediscount) PIs up
to 100% of the amounts lent to small farmers and up to 70% of the amounts lent
to other project beneficiaries.
4.10      Subloans to project beneficiaries would be appraised on the basis of
their technical and economic viability in the cases of on-farm comprehensive
investment plans and agroindustries and on the basis of investment estimates
and cash flow projections for single input complementary investments. The



- 25 -
fees paid by the beneficiaries for private technical assistance in preparing
investment plans for subloan applications and advisory services during
implementation of such plans could be included as an investment item to be
financed under the subloans.
4.11      Subloans made by PIs to beneficiaries would finance up to 100%
of the costs of the approved investment plans in the case of the small farmer
category and up to 80% in case of other project beneficiaries. The subloans
would have repayment terms of up to a maximum of 12 years, including grace
periods of up to four years. Repayment and grace period terms would be
established for each subloan on the basis of the requirements of cash flow
projections of the investment plans to be financed. Repayments from PIs
to CB would be made under the same terms.
Indexing
4.12      Outstanding principal of subsidiary loans from CB to PIs and of
subloans by the PIs to project beneficiaries would be adjusted on the basis
of the IPC. The IPC is established by the National Institute of Statistics
and published by CB every month in the official and other daily newspapers in
Santiago. The indexing system which is intended to maintain the value of the
amount lent is in accordance with the procedures established by CB and with
the relevant Chilean legislation.
Interest Rates
4.13      CB lending (rediscounting) to PIs would be made at an annual inter-
est rate of not more than 10.5% on outstanding principal balances adjusted by
the IPC in the case of subloans made to small farmers, and not more than 12.5%
in the case of subloans made to other project beneficiaries. PIs would be
allowed a maximum spread of interest of 3.5% on the corresponding subloans to
beneficiaries.  The maximum interest rate to be charged by PIs to project
beneficiaries over outstanding adjusted principal balances of subloans would
not be more than 14% in the case of small farmers. In the case of subloans to
other beneficiaries, the PIs would be free to set the interest rates in
accordance with competitive market rates, provided that the sub-loan interest
rate was calculated in a manner so as to assure that the interest on the
portion of the subloan financed by CB (70%) would not exceed a rate of 16% and
that the rate charged such farmers will be 2 percentage points below the rate
charged to other beneficiaries. This interest rate structure could be modified
by agreement between CB and the Bank in accordance with possible fluctuation
of the market rates.
Ceiling for Subloans
4.14      Any subloan or subloans made to any beneficiary would not exceed in
the aggregate, US$100,000 equivalent for on-farm development nd US$150,000
equivalent for agro-industries.
Breeding Stock Financing
4.15      The purchase of breeding stock included in the livestock development
investment plans financed under the project would not exceed the equivalent
of 50% of the subloan except in the case of the financing of beneficiaries



- 26 -
under the small-scale farmer category, in which case such ceiling could be
exceeded with previous approval of ODEPA.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
4.16      CB would enter into subsidiary loan agreements with the PIs,
incorporating terms and conditions of the lending operations specified in
the previous paragraphs and would, specifically, incorporate terms, conditions
and interest rates for on-lending (rediscounts) between CB and PIs and
between the PIs and the project beneficiaries. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that terms and conditions as specified in this and
preceding paragraphs would be adhered to. The execution of two subsidiary
loan agreements, one between CB and one of the participating banks and the
other between CB and INDAP, both satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
D. Accounting and Auditing
4.17      Separate project accounts, records and documentation pertaining
to financial transactions under the project would be kept by CB and PIs. The
project accounts and related financial statements would be audited annually,
in accordance with generally accepted standards, by independent auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts, together
with the report of the auditors, would be sent to the Bank no later than four
months after the close of each fiscal year (December 31). Assurances on this
point were obtained during negotiations.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18      ODEPA would be responsible for the implementation of the system of
monitoring the progress of the project and evaluating the impact of the
investments and technical assistance provided. It is envisaged that the
system would be a continuation of that established in 1979 for the ongoing
Bank-financed Agricultural Credit Project (1350-CH). CB would provide the
background information related to the individual beneficiaries financed under
the project, and ODEPA, on the basis of representative sampling surveys, would
collect productivity and financial data, which would be assembled and analyzed
in accordance with accepted monitoring and evaluation procedures. The informa-
tion so assembled and analyzed would then be transmitted to CB for submission
to the Bank as consolidated semestral Progress Reports and Annual Monitoring
Progress Reports. A draft Completion Report would also be provided to the
Bank no later than six months after the proposed project investments had been
completed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on these points.



- 27 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Background
5.01      Since 1974, the combined impact of the consolidation of the agrarian
reform, the freeing of agricultural prices, the rationalization of the exchange
rate and the elimination of incentive-stifling Government controls has pro-
gressively opened up new production and marketing opportunities and has
subsequently increased farmers' demand for investment credit and technological
advice conducive to an efficient and profitable exploitation of their farms
and related local and export marketing activities. Consistent with these new
conditions, the strategy of the proposed agricultural credit project would be
to provide the necessary investment credit to adequately capitalize a substan-
tial number of small- and medium-size farms and to provide the technical
assistance necessary to increase labor and farm productivity in accordance
with the land's potential. Production trends of the principal crops, fruits,
livestock and wine are given in Annex 1, Table 15.
B. Cropping and Livestock Patterns
Annual Field Crops
5.02      Two models are included under the annual field crop category --
Model 1 for a medium-size farm of about 70 ha and Model 2 for a small-scale
farm of about 5 ha. In both cases, the models are representative of farms in
the Central Valley and the central coastal range and the aim is to increase
the yields of traditional annual crops such as wheat, corn, potatoes, beans,
lentils, sugar beets, rapeseed and sunflower. In addition, emphasis is placed
on the establishment and expansion of high value vegetables and annual fruits,
such as onions, asparagus and strawberries, which are in great demand on the
local and export markets as well as being more labor-intensive than the tradi-
tional grain crops. The medium-size model is typical of the diversified farms
of the area that grow wheat, corn and pastures. These farms would need capital
to purchase modern machinery to upgrade installations and to buy good seed and
fertilizers. These farmers, in addition to improving the yields of the area
planted to wheat, corn and other crops, would be able to switch some of their
natural pasture land to alfalfa hay production and to increase the area in high
value crops such as onions and other vegetables.
5.03      Model 2 represents a smallholder with about 5 ha who is subsisting
mostly on wheat and grazing his livestock on the hillsides of the coastal
range; under the project, such a farmer would develop 3 ha under irrigation by
digging a shallow well and installing a motor pump. The irrigated area would
be dedicated to strawberries, asparagus, or other high value crops that would
permit a substantial improvement in the farmer's income.
Fruit Trees, Table Grapes and Vineyards
5.04      Ideal soil and climate conditions of the irrigated area of the
Central Valley of Chile and the strong export market, particularly for table
grapes, nectarines, apples, almonds and wine, have brought about a great
demand for investment credit to expand and modernize the production of these



--- 28 -
commodities. Three models have been prepared for this category of investments
under the project: Model 3 for a small-scale farm of 15 ha which would estab-
lish 2 ha of table grapes, Model 4 for a medium-size farm of 70 ha which would
establish 5 ha of table grapes and 5 ha of peaches (nectarines); and Model 5
for a small-scale farm on which .2.5 ha under vineyards (wine grapes) would be
renovated and 0.5 ha would go into new vineyard planting. Existing plantings,
which apply to the three models, include grapes, peaches, nectarines, plums,
apples, almonds, walnuts, cherries, avocados and chirimoyas. They concern
farms of varying sizes, from small holdings operated by their owners to
medium-scale farms operated by progressive farmers. Cultivation practices
in general are sound and the technical competence of fruit specialists is
high; however, some orcharding techniques are out of date, and practices
requiring purchased inputs such as fertilizers, pest contral chemicals and
trellising for grape growing have been drastically reduced curing the period
of low prices. New plantings and changes to new varieties have also been
curtailed for many years, but these are available in the country and would be
financed under the project. In all cases, the expansion of fruit growing
would lead to an intensive use of labor needed for operations such as crop
maintenance, irrigation and harvesting.
Livestock, Dairy and Beef Production
5.05      Pasture and forage lands constitute a major national resource
comprising about 14 million ha. The temgerate zone from the provinces of
Bio-Bio to Chiloe (between 37.5 to 42.5 ) is ideally suited to grassland
farming and the potential for increasing livestock production (milk, meat and
wool) under modern grassland farming methods is excellent. The Mediterranean
zone, which surrounds Santiago, is also well suited for dairy production.
Therefore, nearly 30% of project investments are expected to finance livestock
production. The three models presented represent the actual situation and the
development possibilities of a small dairy farm in the south (No. 6), of a
medium-size dairy farm in the vicinity of Santiago (No. 7), and of a small-
scale beef producing farm also in the southern temperate area of the country
(No. 8). Common to the three models are the main requirements for increasing
production: (a) annual applications of phosphatic fertilizer to existing
grass/legume pastures and to new pastures being established; (b) breeding
cattle to increase actual stocking rate potential; (c) fencing, handling and
milking installations and equipment; and (d) machinery and installations for
hay and silage conservation systems. As in the case of fruits, most of the
technology needed for development is known to most farmers; however, as a
result of the long process of agrarian reform involving farm expropriations
and subsequent land redistribution, the existing farms, mainly those owned by
the agrarian reform beneficiaries, are greatly understocked and, in most
cases, lack the minimum required installations and equipment for efficient
exploitation. Therefore, investment credit for livestock development is in
great demand and has, accordingly, been included under the project.



- 29 -
C. Technical Coefficients
5.06      The implementation of over 3,300 farm plans expected to be financed
under the project would be carried out over an area of more than 12 million ha
in which there is a wide range of production patterns due to differences in
climate, soils, markets, supply of inputs, and communications. As a result,
actual and projected yields of field crops, fruits and vegetables and technical
coefficients of livestock-producing farms would also vary greatly in relation
to many micro-regions in the area. Therefore, for the purpose of project
budgeting and calculation of possible rates of return, yields and technical
coefficients are estimated averages, based on existing regional statistics,
field visits, information from ODEPA and experimental stations, and the output
of the most progressive farmers. They are as follows:
National             Project Area
(a) Crops   Average 1/  Without  At Full Development  California 2/
-------------------ton per ha----------------------
Corn            2.8        4.5               6.0              7.0
Wheat           1.6         2.5              4.0              4.2
Onions         28.0       25.0              35.0             36.0
Strawberries  n.a.          -              17.0             45.8
Peaches        11.2         -               16.0
Table grapes  10.3          -               19.0             13.1 3/
Alfalfa          -           -              10.0               -
1/   Chile national average, 1975/76-1976/77.
2/   California, USA average, 1975-77.   -
3/   USA average for 1975-77.
(b) Livestock
Farm Models
6        7          8
Stocking Rate (AU/ha)
Without                          0.26       0.5     0.42
At full development              0.98       1.4     1.06
Milk Production/Lactation
Without                         1,200    2,000        -
At full development             2,400    3,000        -
Calving Rate, %
Without                            70        70       70
At full development                80        85       85
Mortality Rate Cows, %
Without                            10         5        10
At full development                 3         4         5



- 30 -
D. Incremental Production Assumptions
5.07      Incremental production, based on the trend of the past five years
and the prices and marketing conditions expected over the next several
years, is envisaged to be the result of increased productivity of traditional
annual field and vegetable crops (mainly wheat, corn, potatoes, beans, chick-
peas, lentils, rice, sunflower, rapeseed and sugar beets); the conversion of
some of the annual cropping land to orchards and vineyards; the improvement of
existing orchards and vineyards; and the intensification of livestock produc-
tion on the greatly underutilized grazing land. As previously indicated, the
main constraints until recently have been the lack of incentives to invest or
otherwise intensify farm production. Based on the capability of the PIs and,
in the case of small-scale farms, on estimates of their possible response to
technological inputs and rates at which improved practices are adopted,
project estimates of incremental production are derived from production
increases on about 5% (2,600) of the existing viable small-scale farms
(mainly 5 to 12 BIH) and about 10% (750) of the existing medium-size farms
(12 to 80 BIH). Estimated yield increases under the project are based on
current yields obtained on reasonably well managed farms and are, therefore,
considered realistic. Moreover, sensitivity analyses, assuming up to 20% lower
benefits, still indicate satisfactory results (para 7.07).
VI. MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Markets, Prices and Taxes
Markets
6.01      Under the existing free marketing system in Chile, agricultural
investments are oriented almost exclusively toward the production of goods for
which there are comparative advantages for export or for import substitution.
Therefore, incremental production under the project would respond basically
to real demand in local and export markets. Project incremental production
of corn, wheat, beef and milk would be for import substitution. Chile is
expected to continue being a net importer of wheat and corn, at least for the
medium-term ahead, and it imports about 8,000 tons of beef a year. Chile is
aiso a net importer of milk to meet about 15% of the local demand but limited
quant-ties of dairy products may be exported to the Latin American Free Trade
Association (ALALC) countries. The main farm products for the export market
would be onions, pepper, and asparagus; fruits, mainly table grapes, peaches,
nectarines and almonds; lentils and some varieties of beans; and wines. A
major part of project production of fresh fruits and wine would be exported to
the USA, Europe and the ALALC countries, while beans and lentils would go
mainly to Europe, the USA, Brazil, Colombia and Central America. The per-
formance of agricultural exports over the past years (Annex 1, Table 2) is a
tangible measure of the increasing opportunities for several Chilean agricul-
tural products.
6.02      Poor produce quality as a result of the deficiencies of market-
ing and processing facilities has been a constraint to expanding exports of
fresh and processed farm products. Until 1973, financing and implementation



- 31 -
of projects for developing agroindustries were carried out mainly by the Govern-
ment through CORFO, which operated most of the sugar mills, slaughterhouses
and cold storage plants, and the fruit and wine marketing centers. However,
now that the Government has transferred such agroindustrial facilities to the
private sector, and investment credit has become available from the Bank and
other international sources for the development of agricultural marketing and
processing facilities, the situation has begun to improve. The agroindustry
component of the project is thus directed at continuing the improvement and
expansion of the agroindustry and agro-services subsectors by providing
support to new and existing agricultural processing and marketing cooperatives
and other private enterprises (para 3.10).
Prices
6.03      As in other sectors of the economy, it is the present Government's
policy that domestic agricultural prices be determined in the market place and
thus brought into line with international prices. Agricultural prices have
therefore been freed, with no restrictions on exports and imports, except for
a 10% ad valorem import tariff on all agricultural products and a fee for
powdered milk. As a result, the price situation is expected to be favorable
for project commodities. Prices used in farm models are generally farmgate
prices received by producers during the peak of the harvest season and are
thus somewhat lower than the yearly average price.
Marketing Tax
6.04      As of January 1975, a major tax reform law was put into effect,
its main features relating to the agricultural sector including the institu-
tion of a 20% value-added tax (IVA) on sale transactions, the extension
of indexing to the valuation of all business assets and liabilities, and a
reassessment of values of agricultural properties (for tax purposes), raising
the assessment by a factor of three. Of these measures, the most significant
to agricultural production, by far, is the IVA. Under this system, farmers pay
a 20% tax over the billed value of inputs purchased and 20% on the billed
value of their sales, net of the amount paid for inputs during the year. If,
as is the case in most of the project farm models, the amounts paid for inputs
during the investment years exceed the value of IVA for the sale of farm
production, the difference is credited to the following five years. Export
sales are exempt from IVA. Incremental Government revenue from the project's
IVA is shown in the next chapter. Under the project, the Government would get
incremental IVA of around US$12 million derived from the cost of investment
inputs, and, in addition, assuming that 60% of project production is sold
locally, it would get US$6 million per year from the sale of farm products at
full development.
B. Producer Benefits
6.05      Producer benefits and financial rates of return from the invest-
ments expected under the illustrative models (Annex 1) can be summarized as
follows:



- 32 -
Small-size Farms               Medium-size Farms
2        3      5      6       8       1        4        7
Farm Model 1/
Full Development (year)          5         6     7      6     5         5       8        8
Farm Size (physical ha)          5        15    30    60    50         70      70      200
Farm Size (BIH)                1.5        12    12    10    10         56      56       63
-------------Amounts in June 1979 - US$'000--------------
Investment                     5.8       7.9   5.9  18.4  12.2    102.8    47.5    79.0
Net Income without Project   0.5         1.8   2.2   1.3   1.6       12.2    14.2      7.5
Net Income with Project        2.6 2/   7.3   4.0   6.7   5.8        35.3    39.4    36.0
Debt Service                   1.9 2/   2.5   1.7   5.2   3.4        20.3    10.0    16.7
Net Income with Project
while Servicing Debt          0.7 2/   4.8   2.3   1.5   2.4        15.0    29.4    19.3
Net Incremental Income
upon Completion of Debt
Service 3/                    2.1 2/  .5.5   1.8   7.0   4.2       23.1    25.2    28.5
Financial Rate of Return       30.6%    24%   18%   25%   24%         32%     20%      25%
1/   Detailed Farm Models in Annex 1, Tables 5 to 12.
2/   Average of years 4, 5, and 6.
3/   Average of remaining years to year 20, not including incremental herd
value in livestock models (6, 7 and 8).
C. Project Cash Flow
6.06      The estimated project lending program as handled by the PIs (in an
aggregated form) is given in the table on the next page. Assumptions applica-
ble to the cash flows are: (a) a US$72 million lending program; (b) phasing
of disbursements over a four-year period; and (c) repayment terms from PIs to
CB and from beneficiaries to PIs.that average 10 years, including an average
of two years of grace. In addition, for the purposes of this calculation, it
is assumed that lending from CB to PIs would be at 10.5% for small farmers and
at 12.5% for other beneficiaries, which are the permissible limits. Similarly,



Project Cash Flow for Participating Institutions (Pls)
(us$ '000)
1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10          11         12         13         14         15       Total
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS
Cash Inflow
CB Loans (Rediscounts)                        16,000   25,600   16,000        -                                                                                                                    -      57,600
PIs' Own Resources                             4,000    6,400    4,000        -         -         -         -         -         -         -           -           -          -          -          -      14,400
Repayment from Beneficiaries
Interest!/                                   1,489    5,360    9,232   10,036    9,113         8,041    6,969    5,896    4,824    3,752           2,680      1,608         685        149       -      69,834
Principal                                      -         -       2,000    5,200    7,200    7,200    7,200    7,200    7,200    7,200              7,200      7,200      5,200       2000        -      72,000
Total Inflow:                   21,489   37,360   31.232   15,236   16,313   15,241   14,169   13,096   12,024   10,952                9,880      8.808      5,885       2.149       -    213,834
Cash Outflow
Loans to Beneficiaries                        20,000   32,000   20,000        -         -         -         -         -         -         -           -           -          -          -          -      72,000
Repayment to CB
Interest2V                                     911    3,280    5,558    6,142    5,578    4,92i    4,265    3,608    2,952             2,296       1,640         984        419         91       -      42,645
Principal                                      -         -       1,600    4,160    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760    5,760              5,760      5,760      4,160       1,600       -      57,600
Repayment of Own Resources 3/                    -         -         400    1,040    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440    1,440           1,440       1,440       1,440      1,040        400       -      14,400
Cost of own Resources (147.)-                    280    1,008    1,708       1,887    1,714    1,512    1,310    1,109           907       706         504         302        129         28       -      13,104
Incremental Admini*trative Cost (2%)             200       720    1,220    1,348    1,224    1,080           936       792       648       504         360         216         92         20       -       9360
Total Outflow:                  21,391   37,008   30.486   14,577   15,716   14.713   13,711   12.709   11,707   10,706                9.704      8.702       5840       2.139             209.109
Annual Cash Surplus                                  98       352      746       659       597       528       458       387       317       246          176        106         45          10       _      4,725
Accumulated Cash Surplus                             98      450    1,196    1,855    2,452    2,980    3,438    3,825    4,142    4,388               4,564       4,670      4,715      4,725    4,725         -
1/  14.0% for small farmers and 16.07. for other beneficiaries; weighted average interest rate is 14.897.
2/  10.57. for small farmers and 12.5% for other beneficiaries; weighted average interest rate is 11.39%.
/ Mission estimate.
March 25, 1980



- 34 -
in the case of PIs, it is assumed that they will on-lend at 14% to small farmers
and at 16% to other beneficiaries per annum and that their incremental adminis-
trative cost for handling project lending would be of the order of 2%. Under
these assumptions, the calculations indicate that, during the 15-year period
of project operations, the PIs, besides covering their operating costs, could
accumulate net earnings amounting to US$4.7 million.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
7.01      The project is of high priority because it would help reduce the
gap between the great demand for medium- and long-term agricultural credit and
the limited availability of that type of credit in the Chilean capital market.
It would also contribute to the Government's effort to lower the high interest
rates prevailing in the local market and, in turn, would make viable a greater
number of investment plans benefitting a broader class of producers. Project
investments would enable an increase in agricultural production, marketing and
processing and thus would increase the efficiency of the agricultural enter-
prises, mainly those producing commodities with apparent international competi-
tive advantage. The agroindustry component would contribute to improving the
quality and thus the prices of Chilean agricultural products in foreign
markets.
Incremental Production
7.02      The projected annual incremental production arising from the project
at full development is estimated at about 10,500 tons of corn; 24,000 tons of
onions; 22,400 tons of alfalfa; 50,500 tons of table grapes; 20,800 tons of
peaches; 9,500 tons of strawberries; 24,000 tons of grapes; 60,500,000 liters
of milk; and about 3,100 tons of meat. 1/ At full development and based on
the farmgate prices utilized in the financial analysis, the annual total value
of the incremental output generated by the project would be approximately
US$50 million.
Employment Impact
7.03      Most of the farm production financed under the project is labor-
intensive, i.e., grapes, vegetables, dairy. Therefore, the project would have
a significant impact on rural employment. Estimates indicate that at full
development incremental hired labor would be about 2,600 man-years. Moreover,
farm family labor on the small-scale farms financed under the project would
substantially improve their subsistence incomes, as shown in paragraph 6.05.
Agroindustry and marketing services under the project would provide additional
direct and indirect employment which is probably of high significance, but
difficult to quantify.
1/   Based on the sale and slaughter of 4,740 cows, 4,100 heifers, 3,360 steers
and 11,880 calves.



- 35 -
B. Poverty-Impact Analysis
7.04      Project impact and likely distribution of project benefits to the
lower income groups are expected to be as follows:
Under 1/   Under 1/        Above
Absolute    Relative        Relative
Poverty      Poverty    Poverty Level
________________(%)_________________
Income Level of Project Beneficiaries 2/
Before Project Development                     33           77            23
At Full Development                             0            0           100
Project Funds and Benefits
Proportion of Project Funds                    20           35           65
Proportion of Project Benefits 3/              18           40           60
1/   Absolute poverty, US$270 per capita; relative poverty, US$374 per capita;
country's average per capita income, US$1,410 (Bank estimates in August
1979).
2/   Based on farm model estimates (para 6.05) and considering six persons
per farm family.
3/   Exclusive of benefits from project investments for agroindustries.
C. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate of Return
7.05      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated
at 34% and the economic rates of return calculated for the various models
range from 31% to 36% (Annex 1, Table 16). The Net Present Value (NPV) of the
project, with costs and benefits over 20 years discounted at 13%, which is the
economic opportunity cost of capital, is estimated at US$97 million in 1979
prices.
7.06      The rate of return to the economy has been calculated for each compo-
nent, and for the project as a whole, on the basis of the illustrative invest-
ment models. The agroindustry component, representing about 15% of the total
investment costs, has been excluded from the analysis because, given the variety
of subprojects expected to be presented under the project, it is not possible
to elaborate representative models that would permit estimating ex ante the
composite ERR of this project component. The investments in agroindustries
would require feasibility studies and their economic viability would be reviewed
on a case-by-case basis. Key assumptions and adjustments utilized in the
economic analysis were as follows:



- 36 -
(a) prices prevailing in June 1979 were used for estimating most
benefits throughout the life of the project. Prices for some
of the perishable products are based on prices during peak
harvesting months. Prices for those products which are export-
able have been estimated on the basis of export values over the
past two years and have been adjusted in accordance with the
projections of the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections
Division;
(b) prices used for investments and current expenditures have been
adjusted for taxes;
(c) the residual value for breeding stock has been accounted for;
and
(d) farm labor has been priced at 90% of the prevailing commercial
rate.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.07      Sensitivity analysis was made to evaluate the impact of possible
variations in the project's benefits and costs. In undertaking the sensitivity
analysis, switching values were calculated for the aggregate cost and benefit
streams. The switching value of a variable is that value at which the NPV of
the project becomes zero (or the rate of return equals the economic opportunity
cost of capital). It is a measure of how far the variable can differ from its
most likely value before the project becomes economically unacceptable.  The
switching values of the project are presented below:
Variable                    Switching Value
Total Benefits from Project               -46%
Total Costs of Project                    +84%
D. Project Risk
7.08      The estimated demand for project investments is based on the
prevailing Government economic policies and interest rates charged on agri-
cultural investment credit, both of which are highly attractive to the
agricultural sector. Therefore, unfavorable changes in actual economic
policies and/or in interest rates for agricultural investments could have a
detrimental impact on the estimated demand. Possibilities of such a risk are
low, given that the present administration is committed to free price and
marketing policies and is taking measures to reduce the high interest rates of
the Chilean capital market. Other risks may be restrictions on export markets
and/or adverse price fluctuations in the international commodities markets.



- 37 -
E. Environmental Impact
7.09      No adverse environmental effects are expected as a consequence
of the project. The Ministry of Agriculture, through SAG, has an effective
system of licensing and controlling the use of chemicals and fertilizers.
No major land clearing is expected for development financed under the project,
but, in any case, there is satisfactory land conservation and rehabilitation
legislation enforced at the national and regional levels by SAG and CONAF
(paras 1.19 and 1.21).
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) it would make available to the lending program the contribution
of US$36 million corresponding to CB and the PIs and the pro-
ceeds of the US$36 million from the Bank loan and would use repay-
ments of CB rediscounts, net of project administration costs, for
future lending to the agricultural sector (para 3.15);
(b) a minimum of US$24 million (33%) of the project lending program
would be set aside for lending to small-scale farmers, mainly
through INDAP, and the subsidiary loan agreements would establish
the allocation scheme for the funds reserved for such lending (para
3.16);
(c) The status of commitments for subloans to small farmers would be
reviewed by the Borrower and the Bank within the first year of
project execution (para 3.16)
(d) CB and PIs would enter into subsidiary loan agreements that
incorporated lending terms and conditions for on-lending
(rediscounts) between CB and the PIs and between the PIs and
the project beneficiaries as specified in paragraphs 4.09 to
4.16;
(e) project accounts and related financial statements would be
audited annually by independent auditors, satisfactory to
the Bank, and that certified copies of the audited accounts,
together with the report of the auditors, would be sent to
the Bank no later,than four months after the close of each
fiscal year (para 4.17);



- 38 -
(f) ODEPA would be responsible for the system of monitoring and evaluating
the impact of investments and technical assistance provided under
the project, and the information assembled would be sent to the Bank
as consolidated semestral Progress Reports and Annual Monitoring
Progress Reports (para 4.18); and
(g) a draft Completion Report would be provided to the Bank,
no later than six months after the proposed project invest-
ments had been completed (para 4.18).
8.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that two subsid-
iary loan agreements, one between CB and one of the participating banks
and the other between CB and INDAP, both satisfactory to the Bank, had been
executed (para 4.16).
8.03      With the above assurances and condition, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Chile
for US$36 million for a term of 15 years, including three years of grace,
with interest at the rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.
August 11, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Distribution of Land by Farm Size and by Zones
From Advance Data of 1Y75/76 Agricultural Census (12/1978)
1775                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unproductive
Arable Land                                                         Arid & Barren-2/    Total Census          Land Not       2/
Farms    Total            ~~~~Irrigated          Pasture         Foresti!               Land                  Area         covered by Census-    Total Area
Zones                  Farms              Tot0 al                                                                                % 1.0,00 ha  %  1.000 ha _  Foe/LndAe   oerdb   eI000 ha     Y
Zones        ~~No.      7.      1.000 ha    7.    1.00 a  %   1,07      j    ha     7      1,00 a       7.    100 iQha       7       9- 7                             
Mediterranean        182,056      57.8      1,908.4   57.3      925.8    87.7    3,178.2    26.1    2,468.1    19.5    2,886.3        29.5   10,441.0    27.5    1,022.5      2.7    11,463.5    15.2
Temperate            102,375      32.5      1,166.2   35.0       28.4      2.7    2.326.2    19.1    3,345.4    26.4       903.7       9.2    7,741.5    20.4    2,766.6      7.3    10,508.1    13.9
Main Project Area-
Subtotal        284,431     90.3       3,074.6   92.3      954.2    90.4    5,504.4    45.2    5.813.5    45.9    3.790.0       38.7   18,182.5    47.9    3.789.1    10.0    2              2i.g
Desert and Arid       26,483       8.4        161.8    4.8       95.3      9.0    2,670.7    21.9       399.7     3.2    2,675.1      27.3    5,906.8    15.6   24,222.6    64.2    30,129.4    39.8
Humid                 4.272        1.3         96.9    2.9        5.9      0.6    3.996.1    32.9    6.445.7    50.9    3.328.5       34.0   13.867.4    36.5    9.694,5    25.8    23.561.8    31.1
Marginal Project
Area-Subtotal        30,755      9.7         258.7    7.7      101.2      9.6    6,666.8    54.8    6,845.4    54.1    6.003.6       61.3   19.774.2    52.1  33,917.1    90.0    53.691.2    70.9
Total        315,186    100.0       3.333.3  100.0    1.055.4   100.0   12,171.2   100.0   12.658.8  100.0    9,793.6    100.0   37,956.7   100.0   37,706.2   100.0    75,662.8   100.0,
Size
0.1  - 20 ha        228,910     74.0         581.6   17.4      260.3    24.7       267.8     2.2       69.0      0.5      138.3       1.4    1,056.7      2.8       -         -         -         -
20  - 100           54,366     17.6         811.5   24.3      270.4    25.6       852.0     7.0      402.0      3.2      304.8      3.1    2,370.3      6.2        -         -         -         -
100  _ 500           19,187      6.2       1,014.5   30.5      302.6    28.7    1,557.9    12.8       993.3      7.8      515.1       5.2    4,080.8    10.8        -         -         -         -
500  - 1,000          3,384      1.1         392.4   11.8       85.7      8.1      888.5     7.3      681.5      5.4      353.8       3.6    2,316.2     6.1        -          -        -         -
1,000 - 2,000          1,523      0.5         228.9    6.9       49.8     4.7       831.0     6.8      607.4      4.8      392.3       4.0    2,059.6     5.4        -          -        -         -
over     2,000         1.900      0.6         304.4    9.1       86.6      8.2    7,773.8    63.9    9,905.6    78.3    8,089.2       82.7   26,073.0    68.7
Total        315.186-  1 100.0               100.0    1.0554   100.0   12,171.2   100.0   12,658.8   100.0    9.793.4    100.0   37,956.7   100.0
1/ Includes exploited and non-exploited forest land.
2/  Assumed to be non-productive.
3/  Includes 5,916 operations without land.
December 3, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                      e



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Exports of Agricultural, Fisheries and Agroinduscrial Products
(excl Forestry Products), Selected Years 1960-64 to 1978
Average   Average                                                                    January-June   January-June
1960-64   1971-73        1974        1975        1976         1977        1978           1978             1979
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  (million US$) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Agricultural                                  25.3       24.2       49.2         76.5        111.0        149.8        185.5         131.8             156.0
Field orchard and grain crops               16.6       21.7       43.3         59.8         86.2        126.6       157.7          109.9            126.1
Cereals                                  (1.0)       (0.5)      (0.3)        (2.5)        (1.0)        (0.7)       (5.2)          (4.3)            (0.1)
Beans                                    (3.5)       (4.4)     (14.6)        (8.1)        (6.2)      (12.6)       (19.3)          (6.9)            (9.5)
Lentils                                   (3.5)      (0.9)      (5.2)        (4.1)        (3.8)        (9.4)       (9.1)          (6.4)           (10.3)
Onions and garlic                         (2.4)      (1.7)      (2.8)        (2.2)        (8.4)      (18.1)        (7.8)          (7.3)            (4.7)
Fresh fruits                              (5.8)     (13.2)     (19.4)       (37.7)       (53.8)      (63.6)      (101.0)         (78.6)           (92.1)
Seeds and fibers and other               (0.4)       (0.9)      (1.0)        (5.2)       (13.0)      (22.2)       (15.3)          (6.4)            (9.4)
Animal products                              8.7        2.5        5.9         16.7         24.8         23.2        27.8           21.9             29.9
Sheep wool                               (7.1)       (1.2)      (3.7)        (8.4)       (13.3)      (15.0)       (17.4)         (15.9)           (22.1)
Wax and honey                             (0.9)      (0.6)      (1.0)        (1.9)        (2.1)        (1.4)       (2.7)          (2.0)            (1.9)
Live animals                              (0.3)      (0.4)      (0.3)        (0.7)        (1.0)        (1.3)       (1.8)          (1.0)            (1.6)
Hair and bristles                         (0.3)      (0.0)      (0.2)        (0.1)        (0.3)        (0.1)       (0.3)          (0.2)            ( -
Hides and skins                           (0.2)      (0.2)      (0.7)        (1.8)        (4.6)        (4.6)       (4.7)          (2.5)            (3.8)
Other                                       -          -          -          (3.8)        (3.5)        (0.8)       (0.9)          (0.3)            (0.5)
Fisheries                                      0.3        1.4        4.7          6.0           6.9         8.5         15.6            8.1             13.2
Agroindustry                                  15.5       33.7        59.8       105.7        117.0        173.0        183.5           83.3             97.0
Agricultural                                 6.0        5.4       12.8         62.6         33.1         53.6        48.6           22.3              26.0
Meat and by-products                      (1.7)      (0.1)      (0.5)        (0.8)        (2.3)        (2.6)       (4.3)          (2.6)            (5.2)
Canned and preserved fruits               (0.9)      (0.6)      (1.5)        (2.0)        (4.9)        (6.3)       (5.7)          (2.2)            (5.8)
Dried fruit                               (1.3)      (1.1)      (2.6)        (2.4)        (3.7)        (3.9)       (5.6)          (0.8)            (2.1)
Other                                     (2.1)      (4.2)      (8.2)       (57.4)       (22.2)      (40.8)       (33.0)         (16.7)           (12.9)
Fisheries                                    9.5       28.2       47.0         43.1         83.9        119.4       134.9           61.0              71.0
Total                41.1       59.2       113.7       188.2         234.9       331.3        384.6          223.2            266.2
Source:  Chile:  An Economy in Transition
Volume II:  Statistics.
Banco Central de Chile
Bolentine Mensual No. 618 - Agosto 1979
December 3, 1979



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Imports of Agricultural Fisheries and Agroindustrial Products
(excl. Forestry Products), Selected Years 1971-73 to 1978
Average                                                      January-June    January-June
1971-73         1974            1977            1978              1978             1979
-        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Thousand US$ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Animals and Animal Products             72,320          109,026         40,439         50,909            26,056            30,567
Live animal                          (18,964)          (4,298)        (6,076)        (4,920)           (1,168)           (1,175)
Meats                                (32,444)         (64,924)       (14,267)       (19,135)           (9,987)           (7,135)
Milk and milk products               (20,799)         (39,611)       (19,797)       (26,503)          (14,751)          (21,869)
Other milk products                     (113)            (194)          (299)           (351)            (150)             (388)
Vegetable Kingdom Products              90,080          380,816        144,258        280,299            89,821            80,080
Fruits                                (7,923)          (7,448)       (11,943)       (19,133)           (8,433)          (13,410)
Coffee, tea, etc.                    (20,719)         (27,234)       (38,030)       (39,624)          (20,607)          (21,096)
Cereals                              (55,404)       (333,275)        (84,803)      (214,136)          (57,449)          (38,839)
Mill industry by-products             (1,697)          (1,915)        (4,205)        (2,236)           (1,092)           (2,262)     .
Oilseeds                              (2,448)          (7,533)        (2,718)        (3,458)           (1,463)           (2,370)    H
Other                                 (1,889)          (3,411)           -           (1,712)           (  777)           (2,103)
Fats and Oils                           24,034           52,396         45,074         47,113            16,705            23,347
Processed Primary Products              41,323           90,789        117,115         89,923            37,934            67,625
Sugar and such                       (28,903)         (61,742)       (64,542)       (34,622)          (15,856)          (32,873)
Alcohol                              ( n.a. )         ( n.a. )       (12,753)       (13,603)          (15,091)          ( 7,963)
Tobacco                               (2,093)          (5,600)        (8,860)       (10,755)           (4,509)           (4,611)
Other                                (10,327)         (23,447)       (30,960)       (30,943)          (12,478)          (22,178)
Fertilizer                              17,689           78,012         16,481          27,641           13,134            22,689
Agricultural Products-/                227,757          633,027        346,886        468,244           170,516           201,619
1/  Does not include fertilizer.                                                                                                     o M
Source:  Banco Central de Chile.
Boleten Mensual No. 618-Agosto 1979.
March 20, 1980



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Relative Importance of the Area Expropriated from 1965 to 1973
Country    Expropriated    Percentage
Land Type                              Area         Area         Expropriated
ha           ha
Irrigated (85% efficiency)           1,200,000       730,000          61%
Dry Arable                           4,000,000    1,471,000           36%
Dry Non-arable (pasture and
forest)                          20,000,000    7,765,000          38%
Total Productive Land         25,200,000    9,966,000
In BIH, Equivalent                   2,200,000       895,752         40%
Source: CORA, Ministry of Agriculture, July 1979.
March 24, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 1: Central Valley/Mixed Crop - 70 ha
(US$ '000)
- -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    Years   -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _
Financial Projections                            1         2        3         4        5         6         7        8         9        10        11        12       13 to 20
Gross Production Value                          65.9      74.5     77.2      77.8     78.3      78.7      78.3     78.1      77.9      77.5      77.2      77.2       77.2
Operating Cost                                  30.5     28.6      42.8      42.9     43.0      46.0      43.0     42.9      42.9      42.8      42.2     42.8        42.8
Net Income with Project                         35.4     45.9      34.4      34.9     35.3      32.7      35.3     35.2      35.0      34.7      35.0      34.4       34.4
Net Income without Project                      10.4     10.8      11.6      11.9     12.2      12.4      12.2     12.0      11.9      11.7      11.5      11.5       11.5
Investment Cost:
Tractor                                     15.8       -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -       15.8        -           -
Combine                                    41.1        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -
Other Equipment                             34.5       -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        1.9        -
Working Capital                             11.4       -                   -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -          -
Total Investment Cost               102.8       -         _         -         -        _         -         -         -         -      17.7        -
Incremental Net Benefit (Loss) from Project (7           35.1      22.8      23.0     23.1      20.3      23.1     23.2      23.1      23.0      5.8       22.9       22.9
Financial Rate of Return:            33%                                                                                                                                      4
Cash Flow
Inflow
Sales                                      65.9      74.5      77.2      77.8     78.3      78.7     78.3      78.1      71.9      77.5      77.2     77.2        77.2
Subloans Received                          82.3        -----                       -                    ---                                  12.0        -
Total Inflow                        148.2      74.5     77.2      77.8      78.3     78.7      78.3      78.1      77.9     77.5      89.2      77.2        77.2
Outflow
Investment                                102.8        -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -       17.7        -           -
Operating Cost                              30.5     27.5      27.6      27.5     27.5      30.5      27.5     27.5      27.5      27.5      30.5     27.6        27.6
Taxes - Net IVA paid                         -        1.1      15.2     15.4      15.5      15.5      15.5     15.4      15.4      15.3      11.7     15.2        15.2
Debt Service:
Principal                                 -        13.7      13.7     13.7      13.7      13.7     13.8       -         -         -         -        3.0         3.0
Interest                                           13.2      11.0      8.8       6.6      4.4       2.2       -                             1.6      1.6         1.2
Total Outflow                       133.3      55.5     67.5      65.4      63;3     64.1      59.0      42.9     42.9      42.8      61.5      47.4        47.0
Cash Balance                                    14.9     19.0       9.7      12.4     15.0      14.6      19.3     35.2      35.0      34.7      27.7      29.8        30.2
Farmer Subsistence  Cash Withdrawal             10.4     10.8      11.6      11.9     12.2      12.4      12.2      12.0     11.9      11.7      11.5      11.5        11.5
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficitl/               4.5      8.2      (L.9)      0.5 9              2.2       7.1     23.2      23.1      23.0      1                     18.7
1/   Deficit would require short-term financing.
March 25, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 2: Costal Range/Small Irrigation - 3 ha
(US$ '000)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Financial Projections                                 1        2        3        4        5        6        7         8          9        10         11        12         13 to 20
Gross Production Value                               6.7      9.8      7.2      8.4      11.2    8.0       8.4      11.2       8.0        8.4       11.2       8.0           8.4
Operating Cost                                       5.5      6.9      6.2      5.9       7.6    6.3       5.8       7.6       6.3        5.8       _7,6       6.3           5.8
Net Income with Project                              1.2      2.9      1.0      2.5       3.6    1.7       2.6       3.6       1.7        2.6        3.6       1.7           2.6
Net Income without Projecti/                         0.2      0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3    0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3           0.3
Investment Cost
Pump                                             1.0       -        -        -         -       -       1.0        -         -         -           -         -           1.0
Cement, pipes, etc.                              0.3       -                           -       -        -         -         -         -           -         -             -
Labor                                            0.9       -        -       0.3        -       -      0.3         -         -        0.3          -         -           0.3
Plants                                           2.0       -        -       2.0        -       -       2.0        -         -        2.0          -         -           2.0
Seeding, etc.                                    0.2       -        -       0.2            -          0.2         -         -        0.2          -         -           0.2
Working Capital                                  1.4       -        -        -         -       -                                                                         _
Total Investment Cost                 5.8      _         -       2.5        -       -      3.5         _         _        2.5          -         -           3.5
Incremental Net Benefit (Losa) from Project         (4. 8     2.6      0.7    (0.3        3.3    1.4    (1.2         3.3       1.4          2)       3.3       1.4          (2)
Financial Rate of Return:              297
Cash Flow
Inflow
Net Income Rest of Farm                          0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2    0.2      0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2          0.2
Sales                                            6.7      9.8      7.2      8.4      11.2    8.0      8.4      11.2        8.0       8.4       11.2        8.0          8.4
Subloans Received                                5.8       -        -       2.0        -       -      2.0         -         -        2.0         -          -           2.0
Total Inflow                         12 7    10.0      7.4    10 6        11 4    8.2    10.6       11.4        8.2      10.6       11.4        8.2         10.6
Outflow
Investment                                       5.8       -        -       2.0        -       -      2.0         -         -        2.0         -          -           2.0
Operating Cost                                   5.5      6.3      5.5      5.4       6.3    5.4      5.5        6.3       5.4       5.3        6.3        5.4          5.5
Taxes - Net IVA paidal                            -       0.6      0.7     0.5        1.3    0.9      0.3        1.3       0.9       0.5        1.3        0.9          0.3
Debt Service:
Principal                                       -      0.6      0.6      0.6        2.6    0.6      0.7       2.7        0.7       0.7        2.0         -            -
Interest                                        -      0.8      0.7      0.6        0.8    0.5      0.4       0.6        0.2       0.1        0.3        -            0.3
Total Outflow                        11.3      8.3      7.5      9.1      11.0    7.4       8.9      10.9       7.2       8.6        9.9       6.3           8.1
Cash Balance                                         1.4      1.7    (0.1)    1.5         0.4    0.8       1.7       0.5       1.0        2.0        1.5       1.9           2.5
Farmer Subsistence Cash Withdrawal                   0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5    0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5         0.5       0.5           0.5
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficitl/                   1.0      1.2    (0.6)    1.0        (        0.3      1.2       -         0.5        1.5        1.0       1.4           2.0
1/ Deficit would require short term financing.
2/  IVA based on 80% of sales.                                                                   , 
X x
October 12. 1979  



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 3: Central Valley/2 ha Table Grapes
(US$'000)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Financial Projections                               1        2       3        4       5        6        7       8        9       iO to 20
Gross Production Value-                             -        -      5.58    7.64    9.76   12.20   12.20   12.20   12.88            12.88
Operating Cost                                     0.4     2.6      3.44    3.88    5.12    6.14    6.24    6.24    6.24             6.24
Net Income with Project                           (VA)   (2.6       2.14    3.78    4.64    6.06    5.96    5.96    6.64             6.64
Net Income without Project                         0.4     0.6      0.60    0.60    0.60    0.80    0.60    0.60    0.60             0.60
Investment Cost:
Machinery and Equipment                        1.7
Trellis                                        3.2
Plants                                         0.8
Fertilizer and Pesticides                      0.6
Labor                                          1.2
Other                                          0.4
Total Investment Cost                 7.9
Incremental Net Benefit (Loss) from Project    (L.7)   (3.2     1.54    3.18    4.04    5.26    5.36    5.36    6.04                 6.04
Financial Rate of Return:            277t
Cash Flow
Inflow                         1
Net Income from Rest of Farm-                  1.2     1.2      1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20             1.20
Sales from Project Area                         -       -       5.58    7.66    9.76   12.20   12.20   12.20   12.88            12.88
Subloans Received                              7.9      -        -       _        _        _       _        _        _            _
Total Inflow                          9.1      1.2     6.78    8.86   10.96   13.40   13.40   13.40   14.08            14.08
Outflow
Investment                                     7.9      -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -            -
Operating Cost                                0.4      2.6      3.44    3.88    4.12    4.54    4.54    4.54    4.64             4.64
Taxes - Net IVA paid                            -       -        -        -      1.00    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.60            1.60
Debt Service:
Principal                                     -       -        -       -       1.60    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.50             -
Interest                                      -      1.0      1.10    1.10    1.10    0.88    0.66    0.43    0.21              -
Total Outflow                         8.3      3.6     4.54    4.98    7.82    8.62    8.40    8.17    7.95             6.2A
Cash Balance                       Q                       (2)    2.24    3.88    3.14    4.78    5.00    5.23    6.13               7.84
Farmer Subsistence Cash Withdrawal                 1.6      1.8     1.80    1.80    1.80    1.80    2.00    1.80    1.80             1.80
Incremental Cash Surplus/DeficitV/                 0.8    (. 2)    0.44    2.08    1.34    2.98    3.00    3.43    4.33              6.04
1/  Farm - 15 ha physical, 12 basic - 2 ha improved by project, 10 ha in other crops.                                                     D1!
2/  Deficit would require short-term financing.
March 25, 1980



CHILE
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 4:  Central Valley/5 ha Table Grapes, 5 hi Peaches
- ~~~~ ~ ~ -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -_                  -   -  Years    -     -     -     -   -    -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -                    - - - - - - -3
Financial Projections                                  1          2           3          4          5           6          7           8          9           10       _  l             12          13 to 20 -
Gross Production Value                                -           -        18.7        3O.4       41.2        53.7       53.7       57.8        57.8         57.8         57.8        57.8             57.8
Operating Cost                                        7.4        7.4       10.7        15.9       17.1        22.5       26.1       27.2        27.2         27.2         27.2         27.2            27.2
Net Income with Project                              (7.4)      (.4         8.0        14.5       24.1        31.2       27.6       30.6        30.6         30.6         30.6         30.6            30.6
Net Income without Project                           5.1         5.2        5.2         5.4        5.4         5.4        5.4         5.4        5.4          5.4          5.4          5.4             5.4
Investment Cost
Civil Works                                      8.7          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -            -            -            -               -
Machinery and Equipment                         23.o          -
Planting Materials                               4.4        0.4
Trellising                                       8.2         -
Labor                                            2.8         - 
Total Investment Cost   47.1            0.4         -
Incremental Net benefit (Loss) from Project  (59.6)    (13.0)               2.8         9.1       18.7        25.8       22.2       25.2        25.2         L               2         25.2            25.2
Financial Rate of Return:                20%.
Cash Floww
inf low
Net Income Rest of Farm                         8.8        8.8         8.8        8.8         8.8        8.8         8.8        8.8         8.8          8.8          8.8         8.8              8.8
Sales                                            -          -         18.7       30.4       41.2        53.7       53.7        57.8       57.8         57.8         57.8         57.8             57.8
Subloans Received                              38.0         -                      -                                  --                                               -            -               -
Total Inflow               46.8         8.8       27.5        39.2       50.0        62.5       62.5       66.6        66.6         66.6         66.6         66.6            66.6
Outflow
Investment                                     47.1         0.4          -          -           -          -           -          -           -            -            -           -                -
Operating Cost                                   7.4        7.4        10.7       15.9        17.1       18.9        18.9       19.3        19.3         19.3        19.3         19.3             19.3
Taxes - Net IVA Paidl/                            -          -           -          -           -         3.6         7.2        7.9         7.9          7.9          7.9         7.9              7.9
Debt Service:
Principal                                       -          -           -          -         7.6         7.6         7.6        7.6         7.6           -            -           -               -
Interest                                        -         6.1        6.1         6.1        6.1         4.9        3.6         2.4        1.2                                                     -
Total Outflow              54.5        13.9       16.8        22.0       30.8       35.0        37.3       37.2        36.0         27.2         27.2         27.2            27,2
Cash Balance                                        (L.D7       (5.1)      10.7        17.2       19.2        27.5       25.2       29.4        30.0         39.4         39.4         39.4            39.4
Farmer Suibsistence Cash Withdrawal                 13.9        14.0       14.2        14.2       14.2        14.2       14.2       14.2        14.2         14.2         14.2         14.2            14.2
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficit-2 1(2.)                      (            (39.5)      3.0         5.0        13.3       1=10       15.2        16.4         25.2         25.2         25.2            25.2
/ IVA based on three-quarters sales.
2/ Deficit would require short-term financing.
3/ With minor variations some years, taken into account for recalculation.                                                                                                                                r
March 25, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 5: Southern Central Valley/Vineyard
(US$ '000)
-     - - -   - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Financial Projections                                1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9        10 to 20
Gross Production Value                             0.8      1.5      2.0      2.7      3.6      3.9      4.0     4.0      4.0           4.0
Operating Cost                                     1.3      1.2      1.3      1.3      1.8      1.9      2.0     2.0      2.0           2.1
Net Income with Project                           (0.5)    0.3       0.7      1.4      1.8      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0          1.9
Net Income without Project                         0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2          0.2
Investment Cost
Labor                                          1.0       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -             -
Soil preparation, leveling                     0.2       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Fertilizer                                     0.2       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -             -
Trellis                                        4.3       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -             _
Plants                                         0.2       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -             -
Total Investment Cost             5.9       -        -       -        -        _        -        -        -
Incremental Net Benefit (Loss) from Project   (6.6)    0.1           0.5      1.2      1.5      1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8          1.7
Financial Rate of Return:              18%
Cash Flow
Inflow
Net Income Rest of Farm                        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0           2.0   -a
Sales                                          0.8      1.5      2.0      2.7     3.6      3.9      4.0      4.0      4.0           4.0
Subloans Received                              5.9       -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -
Total Inflow                      8.7      3.5     4.0      4.7      5.6      5.9      6.0      6.0      6.0          6.0
Outflow
Investment                                     5.9       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -
Operating Cost                                 1.3      1.2      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3      1.4     1.4      1.3           1.3
Taxes - Net IVA Paidl/                          -        -        -        -      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6           0.6
Debt Service:
Principal                                     -        -        -       -       1.2      1.2      1.2      1.2      1.1            -
Interest                                      _       0.8     0.8      0.8      0.8      0.7      0.5      0.3      0.2            -
Total Outflow                     7.2      2.0      2.1     2.1      3.8      3.8      3.7      3.5      3.2           1.9
Cash Balance                                        1.5      1.5      1.9      2.6     1.8      2.1      2.3      2.5      2.8           4.1
Farmer Subsistence Cash Withdrawal                  2.2      2.2     2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2          2.2
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficit'/                (0.7)   ()    (2 3)    0.4    (              (0-1)     0.1      o.3      0.6          1.9
1/   IVA based on one-third of sales.                                                                                                         &
2/   Deficit would require short-term financing.                                                                                               |
March 25, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 6: Dairy Production - Small Farm
(US$)
Financial Projections                            1         2          3         4          5          6          7          8         9          10          11-19           20
Gross Production Valuel/                      2,457      4,360      6,167       8,837    11,880    11,495    11,495    11,495    11,495    11,495           11,495        11,495
Operating Cost                                1L042      1,702      4,070      3,110      4,701      4,830      4,830     4,830      4,830      4,830        4,830         4,830
Net Income with Project                       1.415      2.658      2,097      5,727      7.179      6 665      6f665     6.665      6.665      6,665        6.665         6,665
Net Income without Project                    1,330      1,330      1,330       1,330 1,330          1330       1          133       13         13           1330          1330
Investment Cost
Fencing                                     900        -          -           -         -          -          -         -          -          -            -
Milking Shed                              1,600        -          -           -         -          -          -          -         -          -            -              -
Milking Equipment                         1,800        -          -           -         -          -          -          -         -          -            -              -
Cattle Purchase                           8,300        -          -               -  -        -               -         -          -           -            -
Fertilizers                               3,400      2,400        -          -          -         _                     -          -          - 
Total Investment Cost      16,000      2,400        -           -         -          -          -          -          -         - 
Incremental Net Benefit (Loss  from  2/   (15,915)   (l,072)          767      4,397      5 849      5 335     5,335      5_335      5 335      5,335          335        25 000
Pro ject~ 2/                                                                    _____1                 . !&2_2_____9          __84_5
Financial Rate of Return:            22%
Cash Flow                                                                                                                                                                          4
Inflow
Sales                                     2,457      4,360      6,167      8,837    11,880    11,495    11,495    11,495    11,495    11,495            11,495        11,495
Investment Loan                          16,000      2,400        -                     - _  -                -                          -                 -             -
Total Inflow               18,457      6,760      6,167      8,837    111880    1            1         11,495                                            11495 11,495 
Outflow
Operating Cost                            1,042      1,702     4,070       3,110      3,190      3,190     3,190      3,190      3,190      3,190        3,190         3,190
Taxes - Net IVA paid                        -          -          -           -       1,511      1,640      1,640     1,640      1,640      1,640        1 640         1,640
Debt Service:
Principal                                            -          - _                 3,070      3,070     3,070      3,070      3,070      3,050          -
Interest                                  -        21240     2,576       2,576      2,576      2,146     1,716    1287          857        427          -             _
Total Outflow                1.042     3,942      6.646       5,686    10,347    10,046    92616         9.187         iZ    -847             830 4_830
Cash Balance                                 17,415      2,818       (479)      3J151      1,533     1.449      1,879      2,308      2.738      3,188       6 665          6,665
Farmer Subsistence Cash Withdrawal             1,330     1,330      1,330       1,330     1,330      1,330      1,330     1,330      1,330      1,330         1.330         1,330
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficit                         1 488    (1,809)       1,821        203       119        549        978      1,48       1858    ~    335          5_335
1/  Sales include IVA equivalent to one-sixth of gross sales value.
2/  Includes increased herd value of US$19,665 in Year 20.
March 25, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 7: Dairy Production - 100-ha Farm
(us$)
1         2          3         4          5          6          7           8             9         10 to 20
Financial Projections
Gross Production Valuel/                                16,432    19,734    21,834    30,862    38,810    43,500    47,700           48,700       48,700         48,700
Operating Cost                                           3.130      5,722     6.088      6,462      6,702    12.714    12,714        12,714        12,714        12,714
Net Income With Project                                 13,302    14.012    15.746    24,400    32,108    30.786    34,986           35.986        35.986        35.986
Net Income Without Project                               7.500      7.500      7.500     7.500      7,500      7.500      7.500        7.500        7.500         7.500
Investment Cost:
Cattle Purchase                                     23,000        -         -          -          -          -         -            -            -              -
Machinery and Equipment                             27,660        -         -          -          -
Fertilizer and Seeds                                 5,700      2,840        -         -          -          -          -            -            - 7
Fencing                                              3,000        -         -
Construction                                        16,800                                                   -                       -            -             -
Total Investment Cost:               76,160      2,840       -          _                                                          -             -
Incremental Net Benefit (Loss) from Project            (70.358)  3.672    8.246    16.900    24  608                    273486       28.486        28.486        28.486
Financial Rate of Return:                     25%
Cash Flow
Inflow
Sales                                               16,432    19,734    21,834    30,862    38,810    43,500    47,700           48,700       48,700        48,700
Investment Loan                                     60,928      2,272        -                        --                             -            -             -
Total Inflow:                        77.360    22,006    21.834    30,62    38,810    43.500    47,700            48,700       48,700         48.700
Outflow
Investment                                          76,160      2,840        -         -          -          -          -            -            -             -
Operating Cost                                       3,130      5,722     6,088      5,958      6,090      6,186     6,186         6,186        6,186         6,186
Taxes - Net IVA paid                                   -          -          -         504        612      6,528     6,528        6,528         6,528         6,528
Debt Service:
Principal                                            --                   -          -       12,640    12,640    12,640        12,640       12,640            -
Interest                                             -        9.748    10.112    10 112    10,112        8.090     6.067        4.045         2.022           -
Total Outflow:                       79,290    18,310    16.200    16.574    29.454    33,444    31,421            29,399       27,376        12.714
Cash Balance                                            (1,930)    3,696       5,634    14,288      9,356    10,056    16,279         19,301       21,324        35,986
Farmer Subsistence Cash Withdrawal                       7,500      7,500      7,500      7,500     7,500      7,500      7,500        7,500        7,500         7,500
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficit                        (9.430)   (3.804)  (QA686        6.786        8,779 11.801                                 13.824        28,486
1/ Sales include IVA equivalent to one-sixth of gross sales value.
March 25, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Farm Model 8: Beef Production Small Farm - 10 BIH - 50 ha
Financial Projections                          1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8           9          10          11          12 to 19          20
Gross Production ValuelV                     2,930      2,226      3,378      8,940      8,940      8,940      8,940      8,940      8,940        8,940       8,940          8,940          8,940
Operating Cost                                 814        902      1926       3.160      3.         3.160      3,160 3.160            _ 3160     3.160        3.160          3.160          3.160
Net Income with Project                      Z.S16      1.324    ~1452        5,780      5,780      5.780      5.780      5,780       ,78      50    5.780 5.780                  05.780
Net Tncome without Project                   1.612      1.612      1.612      1,612      1.612      1.612      1.612      1,612      1,612        1.612          1                          1,612
Investment Cost
Cattle Purchase                         6,600         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -            -           -               -             -
Fencing                                    600        -          -          -          _          -          _          _          _            -           _               _             _
Cattle Yards                            1,500         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -            -           -               -             -
Fertilizer                              2,300      1.200         --                                                                                          -             -             -
Total Investment Cost       11,000       1.200        -          -
Incremental Net Benefit (Loss  from    (10-496    (1.488              6)      4168       4.168                 4168       4.168  4, 168 4                                    4168          17.498
Financial Rate of Return:       23%
Cash Flow
Inflow
Sales                                   2,930      2,226      3,378      8,940      8,940       8,940      8,940      8,940      8,940       8,940       8,940           8,940          8,940
Investment Loan Received3/             11.000      1.200                    -          -          -          -                     -            -           -               -             -
Total Inflow                13,930      3,426      3378        8.                    8.940      8.940      8.940 940                           8 0            8 0  8-940
Outflow
Investment                             11,000      1,200         -          -          -          -          -          -          -            -                   -              -
Operating Cost    4S                       814       902      1,926      1,926       1,926      1,926      1,926      1,926      1,926       1,926        1,926          1,926          1,926
Taxes Net IVA paid-                       -          -          -        1,234      1,234       1,234      1,234      1,234      1,234       1,234        1,234          1,234          1,234
Debt Service:
Principal                               _-                     -          -       1,740      1,740       1,740      1,740      1,740       1,740       1,760             -              -
Interest                                -        1,540      1          1,708      1,708       1,464      1,221        977        734         490          246            -              -
Total Outflow               11.814      3,642      3,634       4,868      6.60B      6,364      6.121      5,877      5.634       5,390        5,166          3.160          3,160
Cash Balance                                 2.116       (26        (56)      4072       2,332      2,576      2,8 19     3     ,063   3,306    3,550         3,774                  5,780  5,780
Farmer Subsistence Cash Withdrawal           1,612      1,612      1,612      1,612      1,612      1,612      1,612      1,612       1,612       1,612       1,612           1,612          1,612
Incremental Cash Surplus/Deficit               504     (1,828)   (1,868)      2,460        720        964      1,207      1,451      1,694        1,938       2,162          4,168          4,168
-         -         -           -           -        -  ue-                             - 
1/  Sales include IVA equivalent to one-sixth of gross sales value. 
2/  Includes incremental herd value of US$13,330 in Year 20.
3/  1007. of investment cost.                                                                                                                                                                   ER
4/  Aggregated value tax = 20% an value of sales less IVA paid on inputs.
March 25, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Structure of Investments under the Project
Cooperatives and Private
Small Farmer Category                Medium Size Farmer Category                  Agtroindustries and Services                   Total
Model           Investment             Number of  Average Size  Total Amount    Number of  Average Size  Total Amount    Number of  Average Size  Total Amount   Number of  Amount of
Number          Categories             Subloans    Investment   Investments         Subloans   Investment    Investments        Subloans    Investment   Investments    Subloans   Investment
- - - -  US$'OOO---                         - - - - US$'O0O----- USVOO00  - - - -                                                    - us$'000 -
FedCos(Irrigation)
1     Mixed Crops, Wheat, Corn,
Pulses, Onions, Alfalfa
-           -               -             160          103.0         16,500              ---                                     160          16,500
2     Corn/Annual Fruits,
(Strawberries), Melons/
other  -                          400          5.8           2,350-                   -             -               -                     -              -           400           2,350
Fruit Trees, Table Graves
Vineyards
3     Table Grapes  -                   650          7.9           5,150-                   -             -               -                     -              -           650           5,15
4     Table Grapes, Peaches
-           -               -             250           47.1         11,800              --                          -           250           11,800
5     Vineyards Renovation
and New Planting
500         5.9            3,000            -             -              -                      -                      -           500           3,000
Livestock
6     Dairy, 32 Cows Milking
300        18.4           5,500             -             -              -                -                                        300           5,500
7     Dairy, 85 Cows Milking
-            -              -             140           79.0         11,400              ---140                                                11.400
8     Beef, 53 Animal Units
400         12.2.          4,900            -              -              -               ---400                                                 4.900
Singxle Input Co.1lemin-
teay Investment                   320          5.0',         1,600           200            10.0          2,000             -            -               -520                      3,600
Agroindustries and
Services                                                                                                                    90           120          10.800          90          1,0
baseline Total:              2,570          9.2          22,500            750         53.0          41,700              90          120           10,800       3,410          75,000
Pirice Contingency    20Z                                    4,0                                         8,300                                         2201,0
Total:                                         2700                                        50.0001300"0
Mtarch 24, 1980



ANNEX 1
Table 14
- 52 -
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Project Costs by Items of Investment
(US$'000)
Local    Foreign      Total      F.E.
- - - - - US$000 - - - - -         %
A. On-farm Investments Plans
Civil Works
(Land Improvement and
Installation)                           2,300      1,000      3,300       30
Machinery and Equipment                   9,800      15,000    24,800       60
Fertilizers and Chemicals                 2,200       3,300     5,500       60
Plants and Seedsl/           2/           2,400         300      2,700      11
Trellising (posts and wire)-              4,600       2,000     6,600       30
Breeding Stock Purchase                   8,200         900     9,100       10
Fencing and Water Supply                    700         300     1,000       30
Mechanization and Freight                   600         400      1,000      40
Labor                                     4,000         -       4,000         -
Incremental Operating Costs               1,800         800     2,500       32
Subtotal:                     36,600      24,000    60,600       40
B.  Agroindustry & Services Investments
Civil Works                               3,400       1,400     4,800       29
Machinery and Equipment                   3,000       3,000      6,000      50
Subtotal:                      6,400       4,400    10,800       41
C. Single Input Complementary
Investments 3/                            1,800       1,800     3,600       50
Total Base Line Cost                     44,800      30,200    75,000       40
D.  Price Contingency (20%)                   8,960       6,040    15,000        39
Total Project Cost:           53,760      36,240    90,000       40
1/ Mainly grape vines and fruit trees from local nurseries.
2/ Cordon trellis of treated wooden posts and stranded wire.
For farms already possessing most development assets.
March 24, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Production Trends of the Principal Annual Crops.
Fresh Fruit and Nuts, Wine and Livestock:  1970-79
Commodity              1969-70    1970-71    1971-72    1972-73    1973-74    1974-75    1975-76    1976-77    1977-78    1978-79
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - '000 tons - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Annual Crops
Wheat                          1,306.9    1,368.0    1,195.1        746.7       757.1    1,096.7    1,203.6    1,219.3          892.6       995.1
Barley                            97.4       113.6       139.0      107.4       161.7       135.8       160.3       143.1       125.5       112.1
Rye                               10.7        12.3        12.4         8.5       18.9         9.4        14.6        16.4        10.8         9.0
Oats                             110.6       112.0       111.3      109.1       157.3       127.9       139.6       123.7        92.6       150.2
Rice                              76.2        67.1        86.3       55.0        26.4        73.3        89.4       120.0       104.8       181.2
Maize                            239.1       258.3       283.0      294.0       366.5       256.5       295.5       355.3       256.9       489.3
Beans                             65.6        72.2        82.9       65.0        73.2        87.3        91.7       112.4       112.1       116.3
Peas                               7.4         8.5        10.7        8.8        13.5        14.7        14.6        13.7        15.0        15.0
Chick pea                          5.4         7.2         9.3        4.1         6.6         8.0         9.4         5.0         5.5         9.4
Lentils                           11.2        12.0        10.7         9.8       13.5        10.1        11.8        23.8        19.0        31.7
Potatoes                         683.8       835.8       733.1      623.6       928.9       744.8       806.4       928.4       980.7       770.5
Sunflower                         28.2        20.3        19.9        13.5        9.7        13.2        18.0        15.3        30.0        32.0
Rapeseed                          69.9        82.1        78.0       40.0        34.2        55.2        72.5        82.7        52.0        81.0 1
Sugarbeet                      1,655.1    1,390.7    1,201.6        855.9       953.7    1,320.0    1,806.0    2,208.0          840.4       679.5 '
Fresh Fruit and Nutsl/         1,037.2    1,300.0    1,426.4    1,332.0         539.4       566.4       594.7       576.5       590.8       627.0
Livestock
Beef                             170.9       166.4       149.9      137.0       147.0       146.3       221.0       193.4       124.0       190.0
Mutton and lamib                  29.5        26.6        25.2        17.6       24.8        27.2        23.0        23.6        21.3        22.0
Pork                              48.5        49.7       55.1        50.6        53.3        42.0        27.0        31.8        38.0        41.8
Poultry meat                      52.5        58.3       61.3        32.2        36.3        43.6        38.0        44.2        58.5        68.0
Milk (million liters)            895.1       940.0       935.0      878.0       905.8       956.1    1,991.0    1,003.0         900.0    1,050.0
Eggs ('000 units)              1,168.5    1,052.6    1,169.8        891.0    1,154.0    1,219.0    1,262.0    1,021.7    1,150.0    1,200.0
Wool                              19.8        18.1        16.2        17.7       16.8        17.3        21.0        22.1        22.2        22.5
- -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -    -    -    -    -    -    '000    liters    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Wine2/                         400,530    525,134    465,000    460,000    480,673    504,649    529,881
1/  Oranges, lemons, apples, pears, stone fruits and table grapes.  Data should be consistent as best                                         g -
estimates as precise data are difficult to determine.
2/ Wine data are considered best estimates as it is difficult to determine precise figures.
Source: ODEPA, mission estimates, July 1979.
December 1979



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
I US*6'0001
1        2        3        4       5         6        7        8        9       10       11       12   .  13        14       15        16       17       18       19       20  TO  ALS
-------      - -  - - - - -     -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ----  - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -
SMALL FARM'MODELS
INVESTMENT            18287.0  1240.0       0.0   903.0       0.0      0.0  1247.0       0.0      0.0   903.0        0.0      0.0  1247.0       0.0      0.0   903.0        0.0      0.0  1247.0       0.0 25j77,O
INCREMENTAL COST       3055.0  3791.0  5279.0  5146.0  5673.0  5779.0  5766.0  6196.0  5647.0  5804.0  6148.0  5847.0  5804.0  6148,0  5711,0  5668.0  5808.0  5507.0  5464.0  5808.0  .AE+06-
INVREMENTAL INCOME   1350.0  4534.0  8758.0 14024.0 18569.0 18795.0 19017.0 20221,0 19321.0 19493.0 20697.0 19321.0 19493.0 20697,0 19321.0 19493.0 20697.0 19321.0 19493.0 33285.0  ,4E+06
INCREMENTAL 8ENEFIT-19492,0  -497.0  3479.0  7973.0 12396.0 13016.0 11934.0 14023.0 13474.0 12786.0 14549.0 13474.0 12442.0 14549.0 13610.0 12922.0 148839.0 13814,0 12782.0 27477.0  .2E+06
ERR SMALL FARMS  355 %=-==-= 
MEDIUM SIZE FARMS
INVESTMENT            29836.0   366.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0,0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  2072.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  1540.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0 33814.0
INCREMENTAL COST       2614.0  2926.0  3630.0  4600.0  5072.0  5500.0  5500.0  5630,0  5630,0  5630.0  5630.0  5630.0  5630.0  5630.0  5448.0  5318.0  5186.0  5166.0  5136.0  4902.0  .IE+06
INCREMENTAL INCOME   3380.0  4884.0 10210.0 14346.0 18130.0 21958.0 22434.0 23594,0 23620.0 23632.0 23618.0 23618.0 23618.0 23618.0 20836.0 20836.10 19510.0 19510.0 19068.0 21884.0  .4E+06j
INCREMENTALS ENEFIT-29070.0  1592.0  6580.0  9546.0 13058.0 16458.0 16934.0 17964.0 17990.0 18002.0 15916.0 17988.0 17988,0 17988.0 15388.0 13978.0 14322.0 14322.0 13932.0 16982.0  ,2E+06
ERR   MEDIUM FARMS  352
CROP MODELS
INVESTMENT            31390,0    78.0       0.0   903.0       0.0      0.0  1247.0       0.0       0.0   903.0 -2072.0        0.0  1247.0       0.0      0.0  2443.0        0.0      0.0  1247.0       0.0 41530.0
INCREMENTAL COST       4792.0  5179.0  6268.0  7667.0  8407.0  8794.0  8801.0  9343.0  8992.0  8949.0O  9293.0  8992,0  8949.0~ 9293,0  8674.0  8501.0  8511.0  8210,0  8115.0  8225.0  .2E+06
INCREMENTAL INCOME   3537.0  6678.0 14792.0 200,62.0 26048.0 29718.0 29912.0 32156.0 31282.0 31466.0 32656.0 31280.0 31452.0 32656.0 28498.0 283670.0 28548.0 27172.0 26902.0 25402.0  .5E+OA
-INCREMENTAL BENEFIT-32645.0  1421.0  8524.0 11492.0 17641,0 20924.0 19864,0 22813.0 22290.0 21614.0 21291.0 22288.0 21256.0 23363.0 19824.0 17726.0 20037.0.18962.,017540.0 17177.0  =.3E+06
ERR CROP MODELS 365
LIVESTOCK MODELS
INVESTMENT            16733.0  1528.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      o.o      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0 18261,Q
INCREMENTAL CUST        877,0  1136.0  2641.0  2281.0  2338.0  2485.0  2485.0  2480.0  2485.0  2485.0  2485.0  2485.0  2485.0  2 495. 0,.2490.0  2485.0  2405.0  2485.0  2485.0  2485.0 469'50.0
INCREMENTAL INCOME   1693.0  2740.0  4176.0  8308.0 10651.0 11035.0 11539.0 11609.0 11609.0 11659.0 11659.0 11659.0 11659,0 11659.0116'59.0 11659.0 11659.0 11659,0 11659.0 29767.0  .2E+06
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT-15917.0  -326.0  1535.0  6027,0  8313.0  8150,0  9054.0  9174.0  9174.0  9174,0  9174.0  917'4.0  9174.0O  *1l74.0  9174.0  9174.0  9174.0  9174,0  9174,0 27282.0  .2EV06
ERR LS MODIELS  315
TOTAL PROJECT
INVESTMENT            48123.0  1606.0       0.0   903.0       0.0      0.0  1247.0       0,0       0.0  J103. 0  2072.0       0.0  1247.0       0.0      0.0  2443.0       0.0       0.0  1247.0       0.0 59791.0
INCREMENTAL COST       5669.0  6717.0  0909,0  9948.0 10745.0 11279,0 11286.0 11828.0 11477.0 11434.0 11770.0 11477,0 1.1434.0 11778.0 11159.0 10986,0 10996,0 10695.0 10600.0 10710,0  .2E606
INCREMENTAL INCOME   5230.0  9418.0 18968.0 28370,0 36699.0 40753.0 41451 .0 43815.0 42941.0 43125.0 44315,0 42939,0 43112.0 44315.0 40157.0 40329.0 40207.0 38831.0 38561.0 55169.0  .7E+06
INCREMENTAL RFNFFIT-4M562.0  1090.0 10059.0 17519.0 25954.0 29474,0 20910.0 31987,0 31464.0 30780.0 30465.0 31462.0 30430.0 32537.0 28998.0 26900,0 29211.0 28136.0 26714.0 44459,0  .SE+06
FRE TOTAL PROL1JPCT  34%-           



- 55 -                       ANNEX  2
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
The Small Farmers Development Institute (INDAP)
General
1.          Since 1976, INDAP has been improving its operating and administra-
tive procedures, and part of the change involves the formulation and implemen-
tation of its annual program on the basis of 12 regional programs, which, in
turn, are based on about 93 area programs. Credit, tied to technical assistance,
constitutes the essence of INDAP's activities, which includes a component for
training activities for its staff and, to a lesser extent, for farmers. INDAP
beneficiaries are small farmers, including minifundistas and beneficiaries of
the agrarian reform, whose main income is derived from working, under various
tenancy systems, on farms that are under 12 BIH in size. Out of a total of
about 315,000 farmers in Chile, some 250,000 fall into the category of small
farmers who are eligible for INDAP's services. However, according to INDAP's
surveys, only about half of them -- 20,000 reformed farmers and 105,000 mini-
fundistas and families of the Indian communities -- possess the necessary agri-
cultural economic potential or are receptive to technological improvements to
permit, in the short term, development as a consequence of receiving credit
and technical assistance. The other half includes some 20,000 reformed farmers,
who have already been incorporated into the commercial farmer sector or who
are non-receptive to improvements, and some 105,000 minifundistas and Mapuche
Indians, who have no agricultural economic potential or they have other types of
problems that make it impossible, in the short run, for them to benefit from
credit. Therefore, the immediate potential clients of INDAP would seem to be
some 120,000 to 130,000 small farmers.
Financial Structure
2.          Up until 1974, INDAP's administrative costs and most of its lending
funds (short term) were financed by the Government through budgetary alloca-
tions. However, since 1975, the Government has only provided funds to cover
INDAP administrative costs. All of the funds used for lending are from INDAP's
own resources (30%), plus those obtained in the form of loans and rediscounts
from the Central Bank (CB) (70%), most of which CB, in turn, gets from the
Bank, USAID and IDB. Under the new system of financing, INDAP's traditionally
poor loan recovery rate has greatly improved.  Credit resources increased from
about US$11 million in 1973 to US$19 million in 1978, US$34 million in 1979 and
US$42.5 million in 1980, exclusive of US$2.5 million contributed by the Govern-
ment for a special credit program to finance housing and sites for small farmers
from the former Agricultural Associations of Agrarian Reform. During fiscal
years 1979 and 1980,Government's contribution to finance INDAP's administrative
costs has been of the order of US$11 million each year.
3.          INDAP must borrow to obtain additional funds to cover its credit
needs. However, it must compete with some 15 commercial banks and, in several
instances, it has been unsuccessful in getting a loan from the limited funds



- 56
ANNEX 2
CB has to offer. To prevent this situation, the Government, as of 1980 has
required CB to give preference to INDAP with the result that CB has earmarked
US$30 million from its Agricultural Credit Program to finance INDAP credit
needs during 1980. This arrangement has been made possible partially because
of the improvement made in INDAP's administration over the past two years
(which allows the agency to present a firm projected operation) and the lending
program that is included in the national budget for 1980. Details about the
INDAP budget for this year are given in Table 1.
Lending Program
4.           INDAP's credit operations are divided into two programs --  agricul-
tural credit, which is financed aolely with its own resources and CB financing,
and special credit operations, which are financed with specific Government
allocations (para 2). The Agricultural Credit Program is divided into:
(a) short-term credit operations for individual small
farmers. This credit finances the annual needs of
farm production. Lending terms are for no less than
90 days and no more than one year at an interest
rate of 13% over balances adjusted by IPC. Guarantee
is by promissory note, and, in some cases, also by
a co-signer;
(b) investment credit for individual farmers. This
credit is granted on the basis of viable farm plans
(or investment models in the case of bee-keeping).
Individual farm plans are based on typical-area
farm models previously prepared and approved by the
technical staff of the area, region and central offices.
Loans exceeding 20% of the amounts approved for the
respective area models require central office approv-
al. The type of developments to be financed depend
on the ecological possibilities of the different
areas and, in general, include beef and milk, fruit
trees, land improvement, vineyards, minimum housing
installations and forestry. Lending terms according
to cash-flow projections run up to eight years, with
up to five years of grace.  An interest rate of 9%
is charged to farmers with up to 5 BIH and 12.5% is
charged to other small farmers, over balances adjusted
by the IPC. Farmers must provide guarantees or
mortgages covering 150% of the loan amount; and
(c) credit for Small Farmers' Institutions. This credit
is used to finance the establishment, expansion or
modernization of agricultural or agroindustry develop-
ment carried out through small farmers' cooperatives
or other associated forms. Loans are based on spe-
cific feasibility studies. Under this system, the



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
main investments financed are marketing and storage
facilities; processing, including wine making; ma-
chinery services; and small farm infrastructure works
such as farm roads or irrigation works. Terms are
according to project needs, with a maximum of 12
years, including grace periods of up to four years.
The interest rate is 12.5% over balances adjusted by
the IPC.
6.           As shown in Table 2, up to the end of December 1978, INDAP's agri-
cultural credit portfolio had loans outstanding to some 52,000 beneficiaries,
for a total of about US$40 million, of which about half (US$20.2 million) was
committed to short-term loans to 45,145 beneficiaries and the other half
(US$20.5 million) to medium-term loans for 6,752 beneficiaries. Lending during
1979 amounted to US$33 million to about 60,000 beneficiaries, of which about
US$22 million financed short-term operations and US$11 million covered medium-
term investment plans. In addition, about US$3.7 million were provided under
the special operation credit programs financed by the Government. The approved
budget for 1980 assumes an agricultural credit program of US$39 million in
addition to US$3.7 million for the special operations credit program financed
by the Government.
Technical Assistance
7.          As of 1979, INDAP's technical assistance services are divided into
two main types, basic and integral:
Basic Technical Assistance. This type can be divided into ex-
tensive, when delivered to groups of farmers, and intensive,
when provided to individual farmers. This type of assistance
is aimed at overcoming the negative attitude traditional mini-
fundista have toward changing their methods of farming. Under
this type of assistance, the farmers are helped to prepare credit
applications, keep minimum income and expense records and
receive guidance in making technical improvements. In most
cases, basic assistance is provided to homogeneous groups of
farmers making use of traditional extension methods, such as
lectures, demonstration plots, and field days. In most cases,
this assistance is provided, free of charge, to farmers by INDAP
field technicians, but, as such assistance becomes intensive
and is provided on an individual basis, its cost is assumed
partially or totally by the farmers. Paid technical assistance
tied to INDAP credit may be provided by its own staff or by
private consultants (including ATE), but, in the latter case,
under INDAP's supervision. The cost of such assistance may be
financed under the loans.
Integral Technical Assistance. This type of assistance aims at
full development of the farm, following an annual farm plan
drawn up that would ensure the most efficient use of resources.



- 58-
ANNEX 2
It is intended mainly for INDAP beneficiaries making use of in-
vestment credit and includes technical, managerial, financial
and economic aspects of the farm development plan, including
monitoring and evaluation of results. In most cases, it would
be provided by private consultants under the supervision of
INDAP; it may be partially subsidized under the ATE program and
any cost to the farmers may be financed under INDAP's farm
development loan.
Loans Recovery Record
8.          Ever since CB rediscounting became INDAP's main source of funds
for financing its lending program, INDAP established a strict system to recover
the principal amount lent, plus the IPC adjustments and interest accrued during
the term of the loan. To this effect, the regional offices prepare schedules
of repayment dates and, on a monthly basis, take any necessary action to help
the farmers to make their repayments on due dates, to warn the farmers about
the penalties for over-due loan amounts (higher interest rates), to classify
delinquent borrowers on the basis of why they are delinquent, and, finally,
to propose possible solutions to their problems.
9.           In general, INDAP's record for loan recoveries has been satisfactory:
the total amount in arrears was about 14% over the total portfolio to the end
of December 1978 (Table 2), after US$2 million (5% of portfolio's amount) for
loans of doubtful recuperation was written off. The outstanding amount in
arrears was about US$5.5 million, of which about US$2 million consisted of
accounts overdue from 30 days to one year. However, these apparently consti-
tuted no major problem. The balance of US$3.5 million (9% of total portfolio
to December 1978) was re9Aated to loans overdue for more than one year, of which
about US$2.5 million corresponded to some 5,000 loans made to minifundistas
under most unfavorable conditions during 1975 and 1976.
10.         During the period of July 1974 to July 1976, the interest rate for
short-term credit was fixed on the basis of the previous month's inflation
rate (IPC), projected for the term of the loan. Under this system, one-year
loans made between the period of June and July 1976 carried an interest rate
of 200% in nominal terms, increasing to a penalty rate of 250% for overdue
loans. However, in August 1976, inflation rates started a rapid decline, with
the result that the interest rates fixed to compensate for inflation were
grossly over-estimated, in many cases by over 100%; therefore, small farmers
were not able to repay. Similar problems were faced by commercial banks and
by Banco del Estado (BECH) in financing the reform farmers. To deal with the
problem, the Government has consolidated the over-due loans to BECH for repay-
ment in 25 to 30 years at 6% interest. During 1979, INDAP carried out a
complete review of its portfolio in arrears and is now considering adopting a
similar system of long-term debt repayment for those farmers who deserve accom-
modation. Beginning in August 1976, lending (including short-term) has been
adjusted at repayment time by the actual variations of the IPC, and recoveries
for short-term loans have since been of the order of 95% at due time.



_ 59 -
ANNEX 2
Accounts
11.         Following the recommendations made under previous Bank-financed
projects (1119-CH)and 1350-CH) and with assistance from USAID, IN1)AP started
in 1979 to improve its accounting and statistical information systems. Part
of the Santiago office work is already mechanized and all should be compute-
rized by the end of 1980. In Septeniber 1979, INDAP signed a contract with
the consultant firm of Martinez and Durock to modernize and mechanize accounting
and statistical information at the regional level within a period of two years.
One expert from ODEPA is already helping INDAP to supervise the consultant's
work and another expert is to be contracted from the private sector. Except
for the fact that they take a great deal of INDAP's staff time that should be
spent on credit operations, actual accounts are, in general, satisfactory.
Tables 3 and 4 show comparative balance sheets and statements of income and
expenses for 1977 and 1978.
March 1980



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
INDAP - 1980 Budget!'
1980
(US$ '000)W/
TOTAL INCOME
Operations and sales income                                    1,000
Sub-loans recovery                                            27,510
Borrowings from CB                                            29,470
Government budget contribution                                14,713
Initial cash balance                                           1,252
Total                                                    73 945
TOTAL EXPENDITURES
Personnel (1,352 employees)                                    3,758
Consumption of goods and services                              3,874
Nursing home                                                      50
Technical assistance, AID Program                                480
Small farmers sugar beets transport subsidy                      380
Payments of land litigation sentences                          1,220
Offices network operating costs                                  583
Vehicles (230) operation and maintenance                       1,025
Lending program to small farmers                              42,564
Decree law 2.247-housing loans reform farmers                  2,504
Domestic debt, service                                        16,408
Foreign debt, service                                          1,099
Total                                                    73L945
1/ Source: 1980 National Budget Law, published by the Bureau of the Budget,
Ministry of Finance.
2/ Amounts in CH$ converted to US$ at the rate of CH$ 39 to US$1.
March 12, 1980



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
INDAP - Loans' Portfolio to December 31, 1978
(Amounts in US$VOOO)v.
Total Portfolio                           Of Which
Not Yet Due                Over Due
No. of                    No. of                   No. of                % of
Credit Lines          Borrowers   Amount         Borrowers   Amount       Borrowers   Amount    Total
1. Short Term
CB Resources             19,043     8,374          12,068      5,566         6,975      2,808      33.5         1
INDAP Own Resources      26,102    11,894          23,093    10,742          3,009      1,152       9.7
Total Short Term:      45,145    20,268          35, 161    16,308         9,984      3,960      19.5
2. Medium Term
CB Resources              3,241    12,049           2,755    11,697             486       352       3.0
INDAP Own Resources       3,511     7,485           2,835      6,292            676     1,193      16.0
Total Medium Term:      6,752    19,534           5,590    17,989          1,162      1,545       8.0
3.  Total Portfolio          51,897    39 8022/        40,751    34,297         11,146      -,50 3    13.8
l/  Converted at the December 31, 1978 rate of exchange of CH$ 34 to US$1.
Includes original amount lent plus monetary adjustment and interest accrued to December 31, 1978.
US$3.2 million or 58% over due from before 1978 and US$2.3 million or 42% over due during 1978.                  > M
March 26, 1980



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
INDAP - Comparative Balance Sheets
1977-1978
1977           1978
- (US$ '000) ---
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash on hand and banks                               1,390          1,626
Short-term portfolio                                19,853         22,4351/
Less provision for bad debts                        (3,592)         (4,468)
Farm inputs inventory                                3,533           3,670
Total Current Assets:                          21,184         23,263
Medium- and Long-term Portfolio                        15,103         23,417Z./
Fixed Assets:
Land and other non-depreciable assets                   795            818
Machinery, equipment and other depreciable assets 4,261              4,452
Cumulative depreciation                                   -           (698)
New investments                                         109             79
Total Fixed Assets:                             5,165          4,651
Other Assets:
Assets under consignment                             6.888          4,869
Total Other Assets:                             6,888          4,869
TOTAL ASSETS:                                       48,340         56,200
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Current Liabilities:
Accounts payable                                        518            220
Personnel benefits                                      44              19
Short-term debt                                      9,229         11,987
Other liabilities                                       685            706
Total Current Liabilities:                     10,476         12,932
Long-term Debt                                        11,104         10,943
Total Liabilities:                             21,580         23,875
Net Worth Before Losses:
Capital                                             30,047         29,225
Government's investment allocation                   5,842          9,133
Others                                               2,325           3,677
Total Net Worth before Losses:                 38,214         42,035
Losses:
Cumulated deficit                                   (5,697)         (8,652)
Fiscal year deficit                                 (5,757)         (1,058)
Total Losses:                                 (11,454)        (9,710)
Actual Net Worth:                              26,760         32,325
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH:                    48,340          56,200
1/ Includes US$20.3 million from loans and US$2.1 million other collectable
documents.
2/ Includes US$19.5 million loans and US$3.9 million other collectable
documents.
March 12, 1980



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
INDAP - Comparative Income and Expenses Statements
1977-1978L/
1977          1978
--- (US$ 'OOO) --
Income
Operating income                                  19,654         24,236
Budgetary allocations                              4,489          4,901
Income from previous years operations                 553           233
Total Income:                                24,696         29,370
Net Loss                                            5,757         1,059
Total:                                       30,453         30,429
Costs
Costs on sales and services                       12,189        --15,832
Operating costs                                     6,113         6,272
Bad debts, writing off                              3,383         2,376
Depreciation                                            -           697
Financial costs                                    1,464          1,765
Transfers                                              55            47
Total Costs under Fiscal Year                23,204         26,989
Monetary Correctio2-1                          7,057         2,981
Costs for Previous Years Operations              192           459
Total Costs:                                 30,453         30,429
1/  Source national controller audit reports - figures on 1977 financial
statements inflected by 32.4%. All figures converted to US$ at the
December 31, 1978 exchange rate of CH$ 34 to US$1.
2/  Difference from indexing non-monetary assets and liabilities in accordance
with rent law.
March 12, 1980



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1   Chile:  An Economy in Transition, Bank Report No. 2390-CH, June 21,
1979, three volumes.
A-2   Agragrian Reform in Chile 1964-1978, a Paper presented by the
Government of Chile at World Conference on Agrarian Reform and Rural
Development-Rome, July, 1979.
A-3   Agricultural Credit Lives in Chile 1978/79 ICIRA/FAO, May, 1978.
A-4   Fifteen years of Agrarian Reform in Chile-Agricultural Economics
Department of Catholic University of Chile - January 1979.
A-5   Agricultural Census of Chile 1975/76-Advance Data published by the
Natural Statistics Institute-Santiago, December 1978.
A-6   Evaluation of the Agrarian Reform Land Distribution Program to June
30, 1979, 1979-ODENA, (ex-CORA).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   Proposed Project Preparation Report ODEPA, Santiago, October 1978, 3
volumes, text and two annexes with farm models and detail informa-
tion and statistics on sector and agricultural credit in Chile.
B-2   INDAP-Project Program and Operations for 1979, 2 volumes.
B-3   Central Bank-Terms and Conditions for its Agricultural Investment
Credit Lines - 1979.
B-4   INDAP - A Program for the Institutional Improvement of INDAP, June
1979. A summary and three other volumes.
B-5   Feasibility Study for the establishment of a Development Bank of
Social Interest-INFINCO, Santiago-July 1979.
B-6   Chile - Appraisal Report of the Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and
Agroindustry Credit Project. Bank Report No. 10016-CH, November 1976.
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Appraisal Mission Members
C-i   Supporting text and tables for the 8 farm models presented on the SAR.
C-2   Supporting data and Statistics on Agriculture and Credit in Chile.
November 1979



CHILE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT I
MAJOR ECOLOGICAL ZONES AND THEIR AGRICULTURE
TOTAL AREA CULTIVATED ARIA   R                                                                         MEAN ANNUAL      MEAN ANNUAL
ONIE  k                                                                                                  M~~~~~RITRT  OE  EPERATN  REIITATION
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION      IOAE       kmZ 1000's       l OO's H.            0 A0'                                                             T
7Ti5 e°CUU      eo°          85 -
andrriveRrA Oases           DesMrt        17B             13              l1.2
ANTOFARATAA               /
Irrigated river                                                                                              /
iainers ts  Oashee           ArId         120            19A4             13.1
-nd goats
VALPARAISO -5
FrUiAS, vNe7tahlNs,           I                                                                   N VINA          .SANTIAGO                   13.9            359
-;S   e, masse,                    9RANCAGUA
sssiloarr  OaR-DN,      NNdit.---          93            D15E            1051.0
sugar  betp  pulses_
CHI L *A A\LCA
I V  CO NCEPCRISN    < ,                           I 3.5 - .        1319-
Cat.iN,   Ik,              Tp t                          2992             171.TEMUCO
-ug- beets, fruits,                                                                  40'    VALDIVA                              4'.8
P-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__OONODA
PTO. MONTT
? *.AYSEN                                                2865-
Sheep,                   H-,d          248            183                        5  
0           N.
PUNTA '                                       6.2            2754-
ARENAS'                                       6.6
PERCENT OF RMRAL POPULATION                              CITIES OVER 50,0OC INHABITANTS
___________l  0    200   400   BR_________._'._'_50-IOO,OOO                                                                  IOO-300,0D0      300,000 00
... zAe-f  IOT.R.                     0-19        20-39       40-59        60-79                    -m
I5IN,rNhjaCSINa.a~~~dess                co
LOe



