oFFmICI.         LOAN NUMBER 1902 CE
DOCUJMETS~
Loan Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        'V     '     .  3      , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1902 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    'Avv% zo                 , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Banco Central" means Banco Central de Chile;
(b) "Participating Institution" means a party to a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement other than Banco Central, being INDAP or
any commercial or development bank;
(c) "INDAP" means Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario,
and such term includes any successor thereto;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any one of the
agreements to be entered into between Banco Central, acting on
behalf of the Borrower, and a Participating Institution pursuant
to Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means
a loan provided for in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "Sub-loan Agreement" means an. agreement to be entered
into, pursuant ,to Schedule 4 to this Agreement, between a Partici-
pating Institution and a Beneficiary for the financing of an
Investment Plan; and "Sub-loan" means a loan provided for in a
Sub-loan Agreement;


﻿-2-
(f) "Beneficiary" means any of the following persons or
institutions to which the Participating Institution proposes to
make or has made a Sub-loan: (i) small-scale farmers, (those with
a farm of not more than 12 Basic ha); (ii) medium-scale farmers
(those with a farm of more than 12 Basic ha); (iii) farmers'
cooperatives and other associative farmers groups; and (iv)
agro-industry enterprises;
(g) "Investment Plan" means a plan to increase or improve,
or both, the physical resources and productivity of a farm, or
to establish, increase or improve an agro-industry, including,
but without limitation, the acquisition of such goods and services
and the construction of such facilities as shall be required for
the purpose of carrying out the Investment Plan;
(h) "Basic ha" means "hectAreas de riego b&sicas" as
defined in Article 172 of Law No. 16640 (Ley de Reforma Agraria)
of the Borrower;
(i) "Project Account" means Banco Central's account referred
to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(j) "ODEPA" means the Planning Office of the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture;
(k) "Peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower; and
(1) "I.P.C." means the Consumer Price Index, as published
by the Instituto Nacional de Estadisticas of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for


﻿-3-
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central
to carry out the Project or to cause the Project to be carried out
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause Banco Central:
(a) to establish and maintain a Project Account for the
purpose of recording all receipts and payments of money for
or in connection with the Project;


﻿(b) to deposit in the Project Account: (i) immediately
upon withdrawal from the Loan Account, such amounts of money in
the currency of the Borrower as shall be equivalent to the amounts
withdrawn by the Borrower from time to time from the Loan Account
for Sub-loans; (ii) until Sub-loans in an amount equivalent
to $72,000,000 have been made or the Closing Date, whichever
comes first, such amounts of money as the Borrower shall have
determined in consultation with the Bank, which shall be necessary
for the carrying out of the Project; (iii) all payments made by
the Participating Institutions to Banco Central in accordance with
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and (iv) all payments made by the
Participating Institutions to Banco Central in accordance with
the relending operations provided for in paragraph (d) of this
Section;
(c) (i)   to lend to the Participating Institutions such.
amounts of money as shall have been credited to the Project
Account pursuant to sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of the
preceding paragraph (b), under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, on such
terms and conditions as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank, and on such other terms and
conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank, provided, how-
ever, that not less than a total of the equivalent of $24,000,000
shall be lent by Banco Central for relending by the Participating
Institutions to the small farmers referred to in Section 1.02 (f)
(i) of this Agreement; and (ii) to exercise its rights in relation
to any Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and not to take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any provision of any such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(d) to cause the amounts referred to in sub-paragraphs (iii)
and (iv) of paragraph (b) of this Section, after deduction there-
from of (1) principal, interest and 'other charges paid or to be
paid by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with this Agree-
ment, (2) Banco Central's direct operating expenses attribut-
able to the administration of the Project, and (3) the expenses
attributable to the preparation of the report referred to in
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, to be used for further lending
for general agricultural purposes for a period of fifteen years
from the date of this Agreement on such terms and conditions
as shall be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the
Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause Banco Central
to maintain or cause to be maintained records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits derived or expected to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and farms included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; (iii) cause Banco Central to
furnish to the Bank within forty-five calendar days after each
calendar semester, a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project
during such semester; and (iv) furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, and the administration, operations and financial condi-
tion of Banco Central and the Participating Institutions, with
respect to the Project.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause ODEPA to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for


﻿-6-
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso far.to and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply: (i) to
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) to any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial conditions of Banco Central with respect
to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central: (i) to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements), with respect to the
Project, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the


﻿-7-
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of Banco Central, with
respect to the Project, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Within one year of the date of this Agreement,
the Borrower and the Bank shall jointly review the status of
commitments for Sub-loans under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that the Borrower or any other
authority shall have taken any action which shall materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and Banco Central.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that Banco Central, in accordance with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, has entered into: (a) a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with INDAP; and (b) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with one
other Participating Institution.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the agreements referred to in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or


﻿-8-
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties
thereto, and are legally binding upon the parties th*ereto in
accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date F      v'f 2       /     , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Agricultura
Teatinos 40
Santiago
Chile
With copies to:
Banco Central de Chile
Gerencia de Organismos
Internacionales
Agustinas 1180
Santiago
Chile
Cable address:
MINAGRI
Santiago
With copies to:                  Telex:
CENTROBANC                         40729
Santiago


﻿-9-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
Countersigned on behalf          REPUBLIC OF CHILE
of the Controller General
and of the Treasurer General
of the Republic of Chile
Js /J%A 1Viiel /3SAMP.C                     7o/ seM    el1a      e
By                                 By
Authorized Representative             Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  //  /V    os    AAL      8   dd
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the -
Loan Allocated-          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans                 12,000,000        50% of amounts
under Part A                              -disbursed under
of the Project                             the Sub-loans
(2) Sub-loans                 24,000,000        50% of amounts
under Part B                               disbursed under
of the Project                             the Sub-loans
TOTAL           36,000,000
2. 'The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's lending program for
the financing of investments and technical assistance to develop
on-farm production and related marketing and processing facilities
throughout the territory of the Borrower.
The Project includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Provision of Sub-loans to small-scale farmers:
(i) for about 2,250 comprehensive farm development
investment projects (with the exception of those
involving forestry or fisheries development); and
(ii) for single input complementary investments for
about 320 existing viable farms.
Part B:
(1) Provision of Sub-loans to medium and large-scale farmers:
(a) for about 550 comprehensive farm development investment
projects (with the exception of those involving forestry or
fisheries development); and
(b) for single input complementary investments for about 200
existing viable farms.
(2) Provision of Sub-loans for the establishment, expansion and
modernization of about 90 enterprises or cooperatives in the
business of storing, marketing or processing of farm products.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1984
through   July 15, 1995                    1,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-14-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                      8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                      9.25%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Relending Terms and Conditions
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   Banco Central shall, on behalf of the Borrower, refinance,
under Subsidiary Loans (a) 100% of the amounts of the Sub-loans
made by the Participating Institutions to small scale farmers as
defined in Section 1.02 (f) (i) of the Loan Agreement and (b) 70%
of the amounts of the Sub-loans made by the Participating Insti-
tutions to Beneficiaries other than small scale farmers.
2.   Each Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated and repayable by
the Participating Institution to Banco Central in local currency
within the same period provided by the Participating Institution
for the repayment of the amounts disbursed under Sub-loans.
3.   The outstanding principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan
shall be adjusted, from time to time, by Banco Central in order to
ensure that the purchasing power of such amount shall be fully
maintained.
4.   The adjusted outstanding principal amount of the portion
of each Subsidiary Loan to be relent to the small scale farmers
referred to in paragraph 1 hereof shall bear interest at an
annual rate of not more than 10.5% and the adjusted outstanding
principal amount of the portion of each Subsidiary Loan to be
relent to Beneficiaries other than small scale farmers shall bear
interest at an annual rate of not more than 12.5%, provided,
however, that such rate shall always be 2.0 percentage points
above the rate charged to small scale farmers.
5.   Each Participating Institution shall undertake to make
Sub-loans in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this
Schedule.
6.   (a)   Each Participating Institution shall undertake that,
unless the Bank may otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made
on t.erms whereby the Participating Institution will obtain,
by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and the Participating Institution, including
the right of the Participating Institution: (i) to require the
Beneficiary to carry out the Investment Plan with due diligence


﻿- 16 -
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate technical,
financial and agricultural practices and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) to require that (1) all goods and. works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans shall be purchased
through regular commercial channels, at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of services facilities; and (2) the goods and works
financed by the Sub-loans shall be used exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Investment Plan; (iii) examine, by itself or
jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and works and visit the farms and facilities
included in the Investment Plan, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that the Beneficiary
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insur-
ance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice; (v) obtain such information as
the Bank, the Borrower or the Participating Institution shall
reasonably request relative to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
and (vi) suspend and terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan, and accelerate the maturity
of the Sub-loan, upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its Sub-loan Agreement.
(b) Each Participating Institution shall exercise its
rights in relation to each Investment Plan in such manner as: (i)
to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and the Parti-
cipating Institution; (ii) to comply with its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) to achieve the purposes
of the Project.
7.   Each Participating Institution shall establish and maintain
a separate account through which all amounts withdrawn.from,
and to be paid into, the Project Account by such Participating
Institution will flow.    Such account shall: (i) identify each
Sub-loan made by such Institution; (ii) identify the goods
financed out of each Sub-loan; and (iii) reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the
administration of such account and of each such Sub-loan.
8.   Each Participating Institution shall:   (i) have the account
referred to in the preceding paragraph 7 for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the


﻿- 17 -
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such account as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such account
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
9.   Each Participating Institution shall undertake to ensure
that the Beneficiaries, in order to be qualified for a Sub-loan,
shall have the technical capacity required for the carrying out of
their respective Investment Plans or shall be able to obtain
adequate technical assistance necessary for the preparation of the
Investment Plans and for the supervision of the execution thereof.
10. The Participating Institutions will ensure that Beneficiaries
will have additional short-term loans needed to satisfy the
working capital requirements of such Beneficiaries for the carry-
ing out of their Investment Plans.
11. The Participating Institutions shall undertake that any Sub-
loan or Sub-loans made to any Beneficiary shall not exceed,
in the aggregate: (i) the amount of Pesos equivalent as of the
date of this Agreement to $100,000 for Investment Plans under
Parts A and B (1) of the Project; and (ii) the amount of Pesos
equivalent as of the date of this Agreement to $150,000 for
Investment Plans under Part B (2) of the Project; such amounts of
Pesos to be adjusted, from time to time, according to the varia-
tion of the I.P.C., to maintain their purchasing power.
B.   Sub-loan Agreements
1.   To qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan, each applicant
shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Participating Insti-
tution that he meets all such creditworthiness criteria as shall
be reasonably established from time to time by the Participating
Institution.
2.   Sub-loans shall be made on the basis of Investment Plans,
such Plans to demonstrate the technical, financial (including cash
flows) and economic justification of the proposed investments.
3.   Sub-loans shall finance up to the total cost of the Invest-
ment Plan of the small farmers referred to in Section 1.02 (f) (i)
of this Agreement, and up to 80% of the cost of the other Invest-
ment Plans.


﻿- 18 -
4.   The outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be
adjusted, from time to time, by the Participating Institution in
order to ensure that the purchasing power of such amount shall be
fully maintained.
5.   The adjusted outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan
made to a small scale frmer as defined in Section 1.02 (f) (i) of
the Loan Agreement shall bear interest at an annual rate of
not more than 14% and the adjusted outstanding principal amount of
each Sub-loan made to other beneficiaries shall bear interest at
an annual rate which shall be calculated in a manner so as to
assure that the interest on the amount refinanced by Banco Central
shall not be more than 16%; provided, however, that (i) any such
interest rate shall not exceed by more than 3.5 percentage
points the interest charged by Banco Central on the corresponding
portion of the Subidiary Loan used to refinance such Sub-loan; and
(ii) the interest rate charged to small scale farmers shall always
be 2.0 percentage points below the interest rate charged to other
beneficiaries.
6.   Each Sub-loan will be denominated in local currency and
will be repaid over a period commensurate with the Beneficiary's
estimated net income arising from the carrying out of his Invest-
ment Plan, including an appropriate grace period, provided that
such periods will not exceed the following terms:
Maximum
Maximum                Repayment Period
Grace Period-         including Grace Period
(years)                  (years)
4                         12
7.   The purchase price  of breeding stock included in the Invest-
ment Plans shall not exceed the equivalent of 50% of the Sub-loan
for such Investment Plan, except if the Beneficiary is a small-
scale farmer as defined in Section 1.02 (f) (i) of the Loan Agree-
ment and the respective Investment Plan has been previously
approved by ODEPA.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this L V  L   day ofL<<AL    198 0
FOR SECRETARY


