Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                        Report No. 10455
Report No. 10455-NIR Type: (PCR)
SFEIR-YOUN/ X31'752 / T9 053/ OEDDI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1226-NIR)
MARCH 12, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Monetary Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
1 US$ = 253 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Coopdration Economique (French aid agency)
CILSS       Comit6 Permanent Inter-dtats de Lutte contre la Secheresse dans
le Sahel (Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought Control in
the Sahel)
CP          Cooperative Program
CTFT        Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
(Technical Center for Tropical Forestry)
ESA         Ecole Superieure d'Agronomie (Agricultural College)
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French agency for aid and cooperation)
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Netions
FNI         Fonds National d'Investissement (National Investment Fund)
IDA         International Development Association
IEF         Ingdnieur des Eaux et For§ts (Water and Forestry Engireer)
INRAN       Institut National de la Recherche Agronomio,ue au Niger
(National Agricultural Research Institute of Niger)
IPDR        Institut Pratique de Developpement Rural
(Practical Institute of Rural Development)
IUCN        International Union for Conservation of Nature
MDR         Ministere du D6veloppement Rural (Ministry of Rural Development)
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NLC         Northern Limit of Cultivation
ONAHA       Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles
(National Bureau for Hydro-Agricultural Works)
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                 FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirectworGeneral
Opeatomns Evatuatkun
March 12, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on NIGER
Second Forestry Proiect (Credit 1226-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Niger - Second Forestry Project (Credit 1226-NIR)
prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contri-
buted by the Borrower. This project has not been audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
.                                        W~~~~~~~~~~~2.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1226-NIR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE   .... ......        ..............................**...         ....                         i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .....................................................    iii
PART It  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity  ... .................................. ........  .                      1
2.  Background  ................... 0................. 1-  ....                                1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  ......................                                2
4.   Project Design and Organization  ........  *......4- .......                              3
5.   Project Implementation  .............. ...................                                4
6.   Project Results  ....... ..... .                .............. ................           6
7.   Project Sustair.ability  ......   ............. ..........                              13
8.  Bank Performance  ....... ...... ..... ....                             ......    .      14
9.   Borrower Performance  ......................................                            14
10.   Project Relationship  ........ .............   .                    ....        ..       15
11.   Project Documentation and Data  .....                    .......................         15
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  ........... .....                           17
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ......                   ...........................           21
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ........................                             21
2.   Project Timetable  ......................... *....... .......................           22
3.  Disbursement of Credit  ......... . . . . . . .   ........... ... ..   .............     23
4.   Project Implementation  ..................... ....... .   .......                       24
5.   Project Costs and Financing  ...............................                            25
6.   Project Results  .... .* ....................... o   ............. o .............      26
A.   Direct Benefits  ...... .        ...... ..... ...........  .. .   ........         26
B.   Economic Impact  .......................................                           27
C.    Studies  ..............  .....          0.......0...............................  29
7.   Status  of Covenants  .* ..            ... . . ...... . .....   ...............  .      30
8.  Use of Bank Resources  ....... . .....                ... oo .... .#.......              31
A.    Staff Inputs  ........................................................            31
B.  Missions  ........... . *   ...   ....   ... **4..                                  31
Attachment: Comments from Caisse centrale de coop6ration
gconomique  ........ .......0............... .........................         33
MAP: IBRD 15903R
This document has a restricted distiibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1226-NIR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Forestry
Project in the Republic of Niger, for which Credit 1226-NIR in the amount of
SDR 8,800,000 was approved on April 6, 1982. The Project was cofinanced by
the CCCE and FAC for US$ 3.6 million and USS 1.6 million respectively. The
Development Credit Agreement became effective on October 5, 1982. The Credit
was closed on June 30, 1990, 3 1/2 years later than planned. An outstanding
balance of 297,362.19 SDR was canceled on November 6, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Diviqion, Sahel
Department, Africa Region. The Borrower provided Part II of the report.
Preparation of the PCR was started in March 1991, and is based, inter
alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, borrower and co-financiers' reports, and correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower.



(iii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1226-NIR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The principal objectives of the Second Forestry Project were two-fold:
(a) to improve supplies of fuelvood, building poles, fodder and other minor
forest products for the rural and urban population, with emphasis on rural
populatious' participation in reforestation; and (b) to continue the
education and training begun under the first Project by strengthening the
Forestry Department through the project unit, and helping Government develop
a better forestry policy and testing different approaches to forestry
development.   The main components were nurser3 creation and production,
rainfed and irrigated tree plantations and management, ratural forest
management, soil and water conservation, harvesting and mar 'ting of forest-
products and bushfire control, under farm, community or c" ve management.t
Other components were  training,  research,  planning and   %atitoring and.
evaluation.
Project DesiRn
2.    The  project design iwas based on the first results obtaineb from a
three-year pilot project (79/81) financed by IDA as well as on other
experiences in afforestation, rural forestry and natural forest management.
The project justification and the objectives were properly linked as well as
the different components to be executed. However, the production yields, it.
terms of wood biomass were over-optimistic: they were based on the assumption
that state-managed plantations would be established on sites having good
annual rainfall and suitable soil conditions in a country with harsh climate
and poor soils and where good land for agriculture is already scarce. Also,
the choice of exotic species, not sufficiently tested and not known to the
consumers, constituted a high risk. Last, improved supply of fuelwood,
building poles, fodder and other minor forest products was to be sought
through special emphasis on a considerably expanded rural participation, but
the project description in the SAR did not specify how this participation was
to be achieved. On the contrary, it described a rather top-down process to
explain to people show to do what has already been decided' by the project
staff. In addition, the purely sectoral approach adopted, even for the so-
called rural plantations component, proved to be unsuccessful. These aspects
were partly corrected at the mid-term review in 1985.
Implementation Experience
3.    The project was appraised in May-June 1981, approved in April 1982 and
became effective in October 1982. The ortginal closing date of December 1986



(iv)
was postponed thrice and the project finally closed June 1990. The start of
the project by the borrower was done efficiently and a good national team of
techniciane was rapidly installed. Technical assistance was also provided in
a relatively timely manner. During the first three years of implementation,
several problems appeared: prolonged drought, low survival rates of
plantations, low biomass yields, high production costs, consumers' dislike of
the species planted and rural people's lack of interest in taking up tree
planting. This forced the project to a major re-orientation in 1985.
Implementation did not face any other problem of technical, administrative or
financial nature even if the Borrower's contribution could not be entirely
made available.
4.    The project achievements were monitored very extensively and a large
volume of technical data was collected during project implementation. The
project accounts were kept up to date. However, there was no monitoring and
evaluation system properly designed in order to harmonize these data and
establish a well structured data collection strongly linked to their intended
use, i.e. analysis, interpretation and action.
Results
Rural Forestry.   A total of 670 nurseries were created (1500 planned) and
produced 2.8 million seedlings of which about 502 were planted by the rural
communities and 252 survived equivalent to 1750 ha (6200 ha planned). Yields
were lower than estimated and costs higher (ERR- -62). After the mid-term'
review, nurseries started being privatized, choice of tree species was
adjusted to people's need (more local species and fruit trees) and seed3ings
started being sold. Also communities were more associated to decisions
regarding the plantations.
State managed Rainfed Plantations.   The project maintained the 779 ha
plantations from pilot project and established 782 ha of new ones (1500 ha
planned) as well as 330 ha of gum trees (750 ha planned). This component was
discontinued as survival rates were very low due to drought and poor soils,
growth and yields were below appraisal estimates while investment and
operating costs were very high (ERR- -21? for the 782 ha plantations and -72
for the 330 ha plantations).
Irrigated Tree Plantations. The State-managed block plantations from the
first phase (240 ha) were economically disastrous: yields obtained were 5
times lower than estimated and costs very high (ERR- -24Z).  A community
managed block plantation (102 ha) established in phase II gave similar yields
but at a much lower cost (ERR- -8Z). Shelterbelt plantations in the existing
irrigated agricultural schemes were more successful (ERR= +8.5Y) and 143 km
were planted by farmers (about 220 ha).
Pilot Erosion Control Program. This was implemented in two watersheds over
295 ha with the participation of the population and the support of the Food
for Work program. Work consisted in (i) stopping erosion by controlling water
flow in the gullies with stone-made check dams and filtering walls and (ii)
preventing sheet erosion on flat land and harvesting surface water with
contour -and crescent-shaped bunding. The positive results of this operation
are the rehabilitation of 385 ha of silvopastoral land and the protection of



(v)
a village, a green belt and agricultural lands threatened by floods and
erosion.
Natural Forect Management.  The management plan of 8000 ha of forest was
completed and the exp cl 4tion of the forest entrusted to a rural cooperative
which started ape'atinj In 1989.   It is still too early to draw any
conclusion on the sustaLnability of this operation.
Decentralized Operations. Firebreaks were established over 5,114 km, other
achievements were sand dune fixation operations (10 sites), vegetation
protection (9 sites), bottomland protection (16 sites), ponds and pastoral
well management (8), shelterbelts (110 km) and ;eri-urban greenbelts (2).
Training.  A forestry training cen* r was created which received already 248
trainees, two international fellowships were granted and nine study tours,
and one national seminar organized.
Seed Center. A seed center was created with cold storage and seed treatment
facilities.
Sustai,   A.ly
J_.  ate exception of the shelterbelt plantations all of the directly-
produceive operations have a negative economic rate of return and are'
therefore econom -,ally unsustainable. This is a very grim result but that.
should be interp-eted cc -Iructively. With a more efficient management by the
forest  service.   (lowe-  overheads  and  better  support),   a  greater
responsibility assi*-'  - rural comunities and an integration of forestry
operations into the zisting agricultural production systems, it is likely
that overall costs could be lowered and eventually yields increased, which
would bring some operations  such as rural forestry and natural forest
management, beyond the sustainability threshold.
The economic rate of return should not be the only way to measure the
sustainability or the raison d'Otre of some of the project's operations
because certain benefits cannot be measured directly in terms of biomass
production and cash income. This is the case of rural forestry plantations
which can benefit crops and livestock production through nitrogen
fixation,nutrient recycling, wind protection, fodder production and shade.
This is also the case for the soil erosion control operations (watershed
management, sand d'ane fixation, shelterbelts, etc.) which main purpose is not
to nroduce wood biomass.
C _ents on Borrower's views (Part II)
In its appraisal of Bank's performance, the Borrower claims that the
change of Task Manager towards the end of the project affected the
preparation of a follow-up project. In fact, the earlier Task Manager retired
and was replaced in 1987 and the decision not to finance a subsequent phase
is not related to the staff change. Similarly, the interruption of financing
of tho project is said to have been caused by sudden change of Bank's policy
and vision while ir. fact, there were overwhelming evidences that the project
was not sustainable. The borrower confirms in fact the excellent relations it
had with the Bank and the exceptional lifespan of the project which was



(vi)
extented for 3 1/2 more years (Part II, Section C of this PCR). An attempt
was made to switch to a more integrated approach to natural resources
management but the forestry department could not make the necessary
adjustment and retained its deeply rooted sectoral concepts. The Bank is
presently supporting an interdisciplinary unit in Niger, expected to prepare
an Integrated Natural Resources Management Program (PIGRN).  The Borrower
comments also on delays in the requests for payments and disbursements due to
the present mechanisms of Bank's disbureement procedures (Part II, Section
A.1 of the PCR). In fact delays wero mostly due to unsufficiently documented
requests provided by the Borrower.
The Borrower mentions the remoteness of Bank's decision center
(Washington). This cannot be denied however, there a cost attached to task
managers based in the field. The Borrower regrets the insufficient number of
supervision mis'ions.   Effectively, on the basis of a 12 staff-week (SW)
supervision no_- per year for agricultural projects, there should have been
102 SW supervision over 8.5 years, instead of the 67.6 SWs actually spent.
In t-- _Dpraisal of its self performance,  the Borrower makes very
general statements.
Findings and Lessons Learned.
Tree plantationsin blocks are not profitable at current prices and
under present yields. Higher prices are possible, particularly for the urban
market, but with the existing low incomes, these high prices will affect the
poor people. Results from the on-going Energy Project (Cr. 1880) indicate
that urban population of Niamey continued to buy fuelwood even when prices
went up but, at the same time, alternative sources of energy such as kerosene
started becoming economically more attractive.
Under most of actual Niger natural and socio-economic conditions, tree
planting for fuelwood and building pole purposes remains economically
unsustainable, unless it is integrated within a global natural resource
management system, involving agriculture, range and forest lands, in order to
maximize the benefits and minimize the risks. It should be dealt with at farm
or community level, with a light but very efficient input from Government
professional support services in order to reduce the operating costs.
Management and operating costs are generally too high, particularly in
state-managed operations, because it is expensive to run government services
generally not known for their very high efficiency. It is true that in the
case of a new operation type, more input is required (training, extension and
other support services); however, this input should be on a declining basis
over the project life with a progressive take-over by local communities.
Top-down approaches have proven uisuccessful.  It is more important to
create the favorable conditions and incentives that would encourage people to
establish plantations or manage the existing ones on their own, than to have
these operations decided by government services.
More frequent supervisions with better staff composition are essential
to ensure proper project monitoring, solve problems when they arise and give
the project better chances of success.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1226-NIR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:     Second Forestry Project
Credit No.:       1226-NIR
RVP Unit:         Africa
Countrys          Niger
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Forestry
2.    Background
2.01  Sector Development Oblectives.  In 1982, Niger's population was 87Z
rural and, despite harsh climate and poor soils, the rural sector remained'
critical to the country's ec%nomy. Furthermore, even in the good years of
uranium exports (1979), the rural sector represented 442 of GDP and 25Z of
exports.    The  effect  of a  rapidly  growing  population,  however,  was
progressively leading to the reduction of fallow lands and fallow period, the
cultivation of marginal areas and significant falls in crop yields.
2.02 Food self sufficiency and the raising of the rural population's
standard of living, constitutes the main objectives of Government's
development policy. The objectives were translated into a series of proposed
measures: (i) increasing productivity of rainfed agriculture through input
supply; (ii) development of credit and marketing services; (iii) improving
and prorating irrigation, improving output prices; (iv) promoting tree
planting and pasture improvement and (v) institutional strengthening.
2.03  Forestry sub-sector development objectives.   Since the most recent
drought (1972). increasing attention has been given to the role of forestry
in economic development, leading to an evolving definition of forestry
development programs.   The programs have three main objectives:  (i) to
protect the remaining natural forest cover from over exploitation,
encroachment, over-grazing and bush fires; (ii) to develop a sustained supply
of fuelvood, building poles, fruit, fodder, gum and other minor forest
products for both rural and urban populations through efficient management of
the natural forest cover and establishment of tree plantations; and (iii) to
promote better uses of wood and use of substitutes. The main strategy to
achieve these objectives were to : build up forestry institutions through
training, research, studies and provision of operating means; establish fast
growing tree plantations and improve management of natural forests;
encourage the participation of the rural population in reforestation; and



-2-
support research into methods of improving forestry technical packages and
efficient wQod uses.
2.04 Policy context. The Government established, starting 1984, a policy an(
a National Master Plan to Fight Desertification (Plan National de Lutte
Contre la D4sertification). Later, the Socio Economic Development Plan for
1987-91 defined, as long term perspectives, the satisfaction of people's
needs 4.n forest products and, wildlife protection and management.
2.05  Linkages between projects, sector and macro policy.  The project, as
appraised in 1982 was within Goverrnent policy and priorities and responded
to most donor communities' views on the type of action to be carried out.
3.    Prolect ObJectives and Description
3.01 To address these main issues and Government's development objectives.
the two principal objectives of the Second Forestry Project were defined as:
(a)   to improve the supply of fuelwood, buildina poles, tree fodder
and other minor forest products for the rural and urban
popLlation, emphasizing in particular the expansion of rural
populations' participation in reforestation;
(b)   to continue the education and training begun under the first
Proj E't by reinforcing the Forestry Department through the
project unit, and helping Government develop a better forestry
policy and testing different approaches to forestry development;
3.02 The components of the project were:
(a)   establishment and management, by project's end, of 1,500 rural
mini-nurseries that would supply plants for about 6,200 ha
equivalent of rural tree plantations to be grown by farmers
themselves (rural forestry);
(b)   continued management of 750 ha of state-managed rainfed tree
plantations begun under the first project, and the establishment
and management of ano her 1500 ha of rainfed tree plantations and
of 750 ha of state-managed arabic gum tree plantations, and
protection of 6000 ha of natural arabic gum tree stands;
(c)   continued managoment of 240 h'a of industrial irrigated tree
plantations es .ltshed under the first project, and the
establishment and management of 200 ha of new tree plantations in
existing agricultural irrigated perimeters;
(d)   implementation of a pilot erosion control program in a selected
watershed;
te)   management, on & pilot basis, of 6000 ha of natural forest and of
a bushfire corntrol program;
(f)   establishment and management of a forestry training and refresher
unit;
(g)   assistance to the INRAN forestry research division;
(h)   improvement  of  planning  and  onitoring  activities  of  the
'Forestry Department through the reinforcement of the planning,



-3-
monitoring and economic studies section within the project's unit
and
(l)   continued strengthening of the project uziIt through tachnical
assistance.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.01  The  project design was based in the first results obtained from a
three-year pilot project (79/81) financed by IDA as well as on other
experiences in afforestation, rural forestry and natural forest management.
The project justification and the objectives were properly li.ked as well as
the different components to be executed. The conceptual foundation of the
project was clear but with a certain number of shortcomings. First, there
was an assumption that forest tree planting alore could soLve the complex
problem  of  desertification,  environmental  degradation  and  agricultural
productivity decline. Second, the project was inadequately linked to the rest
of the agricultural sector. On the community involvement aspect, only two of
the project components (a and part of c) dealt with farmers and farmers'
land, with the establishment of mini-nurseries and tree planting by farmers
themselves.   The largest part of the project remained traditional forest
plantation and management operations carried out by the forestry services on
government land. Because it was mainly a purely subrsectoral project, it did
not focus on the agricultural production system as a whole and was handled
mainly by foresters.   Third,  the total forest area of the country was
estimated at 14 million ha which was in fact based on a 1970 rough estimate.
With the pace at which the forests were vanishing, this figure could no
longer be true in ;981.  The SAR however recognized that only 2 to 5 million
ha could be potentlally exploitable for fuelwood and building poles, which
was again a very rough estimate.  Fourth, the estimates regarding biomass
production from man-made forests were over optimistic: rainfed plantations
were expected to yield 2-3 m31ha/year on state managed plantations, irrigated
plantations were expected to yield 15-20 m3/halyear and planted arabic gum
trees (Acacia senegal) were expected to produce 5 kg gum/tree/year between
the age of 6 and 24. This is two to three times what can be actually achieved
under project site conditions (soil and water conditions in particular).
Appraisal recommends that state-managed tree plantations be done as much as
possible on sites having good annual raifall and suitable soil conditions
when it is stated in the SAR that Niger in general has a harsh climate and
poor soils, which present formidable constraints to agricultural development
(para. 1.05) and that among the main problems encountered during the previous
phase were the difficulties in finding good soils in the classified forests
on which to plant (para. 2.05). The total production (Annex 2 table 5 of the
SAR) was therefore over-optimistic. Fifth, the project was focusing on fast
growing exotic species with little knowledge about population's needs and
preferences. Sixth, Xjocio-economically, the choice of high cost inputs such
as irrigation, mechanization and fencing brought the total production costs
way above the maximum price people can afford for the output products.
4.02 Although the project was promoting people's participation and was aimed
at satisfying their own needs, people were not consulted at the design stage.
Decisions were made up front that reforestation schemes were the answer to
the problems and that mostly eucalypts and neems should be planted. A major
adjustment, however, was made at mid-term (1985) with more emphasis (i) on



4-
community and individual's participation, (ii) on a more multi-sectoral
approach and (iii) on planting of indigenous tree species.
4.03 In the Niger context, the project introduced two innovative concepts:
farm or coiunity or rural forestry and irrigated plantations.   These
concepts, though they existed in other parts of the world, were new to Niger
except for some experiments during the pilot project.
4.04 The wood shortage problem in Niger is a nationwide problem; however the
prciect was modeot in size because of its still experimental nature and of
the limited human resources available in the country to carry out any larger
projects.
4.05 The proiect was prepared after a 3-year pilot phase but still
recognized 'the risk of making the wrong choices". The monitoring system that
was set up, though not very efficient, enabled the project to make important
adjustments at mid-term.
4.06 Project timing was appropriate: the whole Sahel region just suffered
from an extended period of dro.;ght; wood shortages were becoming serious and
agricultural productivity was falling because of soil fertility decline and
erosion.   There was a consensus amon all the sahelian countries and the
international community to find solutions to the problems.
4.07 The role and responsibilities assigned to the Forest department were-
properly defined. Although this department and its umbrella ministry were
reorganized several times, the forest department's role and responsibilities
vis-a-vis the p:oject remained almost unchanged.
5.    Project Implementation
5.01 Executing Agency. The Project Management Unit was initially set up in
the forest department (Direction des Eaux et Forets) in the Rural Development
Ministry. Over the project implementation period the forest department was
reorganized  and  changed  name  four  times.    Similarly  ministries  were
restructured and the umbrella ministry for the project changed from (i) Rural
Development to (ii) Hydraulic and Environment, (iii) Agriculture and
Environment, and (iv) finally back to Hydraulic and Environment.   Project
leadership also changed twice during this period.  The project management
unit was autonomous and its organization chart was kept simple with minor
changes at each reorganization. The field work was carried out by the local
forestry services ander the supervision of the PMU but after the 1985 project
review, financial and technical management was delegated to these local
services with the PMU having a supervisory role. The unit was staffed with
Nigerian professionals advised by a team of foreign technical assistants (in
six different discipline areas). The project was also supported by Dutch,
French and American volunteers. In addition to the PMU in Niamey and the
local forestry services, the Niger National Agricultural Research Institute
(INRAN) participated actively in the implementation.
5.02 Credit Effectiveness. In spite of two and a half month delay in making
the project effective and of usual technical problems at the start, the
project proceeded satisfactorily from year-l onward. All project components



-5-
started on schedule except for the Natural Forest Management, the Watershed
Management and the Training components. A major project re-orientation took
place in 1985 and details are given further below.
5.03 Unforeseen factors affecting Lmplementation. Because of low rainfall
and poor soils, the fast growing exotic species selected for the project.
namely eucalypt (Eucalyptus camaldulensis) and neem (Azadirachta indica) did
not produce the expected yields.   These two inherent constraints were
difficult to overcome as (i) most soils are poor and the best ones are used
for food production and (ii) rainfall is, by natvre, erratic and long periods
of drought are common in the region. As a result, high cost inputs such as
mechanization -to produce such low yields- made rainfed plantations
economically and financially unsound. Irrigated plantations were even much
costlier with disappointing yields. In addition, people - understandably -
were n-t prepared to pay a higher price for products (fuelwood and building
poles) that they consider of lower quality than what they have been buying on
the market (indigenous species from natural stands).
5.04  Project re-orientation.   In January 1985, the 5th Bank supervision
mission recommended the reorientation of most project components:
(i1   maintenance costs of Namardd irrigated plantation were to be
reduced drastically and the plantation was to become an
experimental component;
(ii)  tree plantations in existing Irrigated agricultural perimeters-
were to be pursued with strong empiaasis on popular participation;
(iii) state managed rainfed tree plartations were to be abandoned
because of poor results;
(iv)  management  of  natural  forests  was  to  be  replaced  by  two
agrosilvopastoral pilot operations;
(v)   erosion control measures were to be concentrated in one region
(Diffa);
(vi)  fire control program was to be stopped as there was no vegetation
that could catch fire because of the drought that prevented any
growth; and
(vii) rural tree plantations (social forestry) were to evolve to become
natural resource and land use management operations (gestion des
terroirs)   at   the   village/community   level   with   strong
participation of the concerned communities.
5.05 The re-orientation of the project was smoothly and successfully
conducted, however, the production, marketing and financial results and the
Benefits, Justification and Risks as estimated in Chapter VI and VII of the
project's SAR have not been reassessed accordingly. This would have been very
useful in order to compare the new objectives to the achievements at the time
of future supervisions and of PCR preparation.
5.06 Financial management and accounts. The project was co-financed by IDA,
CCCE, FAC and GON for $10.1, $3.6, $1.6 and $1.5 million respectively.
Generally speaking, project financial management was relatively good although
the computerized accounting system could not be set up. In 1986 financial
management was decentralized.   The credit closing date was postponed from
December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1988 and finally to June 30, 1990. Tota
expenditure in CFA francs at closing date was it higher than original budget



-6-
all contributions considered.   For the IDA contribution, CFA equivalent
expenditures were 30? higher than original budget but due to the sharp
increase of exchange rate of the dollar to the CFA in 1984-87, there was an
undisbursed SDR amount of over 3? the original credit. CCCE contribution was
fully disbursed (100?) and FAC contribution at 67Z, due to the reduction in
the technical assistance originally earmarked and to the overestimation of
expatriates unit costs. GON contribution was under-disbursed (45Z) because
(i) the project was not able to access the National In-3stment Fund
(revolving) as a result of go-iernment financial difficulties and (ii) the
limited funds available at the local bank (BDRN) were lost due to BDRN's
bankruptcy. Overall, the project did not suffer from lack of financial
resources.
5.07 Project extension. The appreciation of the dollar, a slower spending
than anticipated and the major re-orientation that took place in 1985 were
the main justifications for the 3 1/2 years of extension of the project.
6.    Project Results
6.01 The results achieved under each project component are presented here.
These components are (i) rural forestry, (ii) state managed rainfed tree
plantations, (iii) irrigated plantations, (iv) natural resources management
schemes (which integrate the initially planned erosion control and natural
forest management components into the broader context of 'amenagements
cantonnaux'), (v) *decentralized" operations (which include environment.
protection and rehabilitation activities in addition to the initially planned
bushfire control component), (vi) forestry training, (vii) assistance to
forestry  research,   (viii)  planning  and  monitoring  unit,  and  (ix)
strengthening of the project unit.
Rural Forestry
6.02 A total of 670 mini-nurseries were established at the community level
and produced a total of 2,8 million seedlings from 1983 to 1989. The project
could not monitor the use of these seedlings with great accuracy because
these nurseries were many and spread all over the country.  According to
estimates made by the project under 3 surveys, about 502 of the annual
production of seedlings have actually been planted by farmers on farmland of
which at least 502 survived. In terms of area planted, this is equivalent to
an area of 1,750ha at an average density of 400 trees per ha. The rate of
success varies from region to region. Low rates of success were either due
to adverse climatic conditions, people's lack of interest or insufficient
input from the extension agents.  Until 1984/85 actions were planned from
central level and extension agents at field level were recruited and paid by
the project. These were however insufficiently trained and motivated and not
well accepted by the community. After project re-orientation in 1985, local
forestry services were given responsibility and were asked to promote mini-
nurseries at the individual and family level and to focus the use of
seedlings on environment protection and rehabilitation operations (see para.
6.19).    At  the  village  level,  unpaid  volunteers  were  designated  by
communities to enhance the action of extension agents. This resulted in a
sharp drop in the cost per unit for seedling production and a switch from
fast growing exotic species to local multipurpose species and fruit trees.



-7-
This opened the door to private initiative were individuals started their own
commercial nurseries, selling seedlings to farmers and to projects.
6.03 In terms of impact, inspite of the great deal of variation from one
village to the other, this component has achieved positive results. The main
result is that it has promoted mini-nurseries as an effective tool to produce
seedlings and these are now being developed by many projects in Niger.
According to recent estimates, mini-nurseries presently provide from 30Z to
502 of the total production of seedlings in Niger. This component has also
been instrumental in developing an individual and private approach to
production of seedlings, and in promoting the use of multi-purpose species in
mini-nurseries.   Economically, however, this component showed a negative
Economic Rate of Return, as described further in para. 7.01 and in part III
of this PCR.
State managed rainfed tree plantations
6.04 The 779 ha of plantation (eucalypt and neem) established during the
previous phase of the project were monitored and tended and, from 1985,
harvested and replanted or regenerated (coppiced). Communities were involved
as paid labor and were authorized to farm the land after the trees were
harvested and before the newly planted ones had full canopy. Maximum yields
obtained for eucalypt (0.6-0.8 m3/ha/year) were well below expectations (3.
m3/ha/year) and many started dying before reaching maturity. Fuelwood and:
building poles from both eucalypt and neem didn't sell well as products from.
better species were sold on the market at cheaper price including timber
coming  from Nigeria.    Establishment  costs  for  these plantations  were
estimated at 175,000 CPA per ha and maintenance cost between 10,000 and
15,000 CFA over a 2-3 year period.
6.05 New plantations started in 1982 but were stopped in 1984 due to the 83-
84 drought. Out of 1500 ha of eucalypt and neem, and 750 ha of arabic gum
trees originally planned only 782 ha and 330 ha respectively were
established.   High rates of mortality occurred and heavy replanting took
place subsequently using local and more adapted species. Besides drought,
the other reasons of failure were: poor conditions of seedlings transported
over long dit'tances, poor genetic material, unappropriated choice of species,
poor soil conditions and late pi.anting. Maximum yields expected from these
new plantations were similar to those of the Phase-One plantations, while
establishment costs plus first year tending have reached up to 380,000
CPA/ha. As for Phase-one plantations, local communities were involved as paid
labor and were authorized to farm the land on harvested or newly established
plantations before the new trees had full canopy. All these plantations were
transferred to local communities or cooperatives towards the end of the
project.
6.06 This component can be considered as a failure, for technical,
managerial and economic reasons. The results of this component confirm that
large scale state-managed rainfed plantations in the Sahelo Sudanian Zone
(SSZ) where average annual rainfall is below 600 mm, are technically
difficult to establish, are difficult to manage and cost even more than rural
plantations for comparable yields.



-8-
Irrigated Tree Plantations
6.07 The irrigated plantations of Eucalyptus camaldulensis established over
240 ha on the upper banks of the Niger river under the first project were
regularly maintained and watered.  After a series of problems encountered
during the first years, more efficient irrigation and stand management
techniques were developed. The exploitation of mature trees started in 1984
and continued under an average rotation of 4 years; the total volume cut
between 1984 and 1989 was about 8,500 m3.   The actual yields of these
plantations turned out to be disappointing with 3 to 4 m3/ha/year on 135 ha
and 7 m3/ha/year on 105 ha, compared to the foreseen yields of 20 m3/ha/year.
The main cause is that these plantations were established on poor soils, as
better soils were kept for agriculture in an area where population density
and food needs  are  relatively high.   The  financial  results  of these.
plantations have been disastrous because of very high production and
transportation costs and low market prices for the final products (fuelwood
and poles).  High production costs were mainly due to a particularly high
cost of irrigation because of the location of the plantations on the upper
banks of the Niger stream.  Transportation costs remained relatively high
because of the poor condition of the road to the plantations. Market prices
for poles and fuelwood remained low because of the competition of products
from other sources: poles of borassus palm (lattes de ronier) from southern
Niger or Burkina Faso, sawn wood from Nigeria and Ghana, and fuelwood from.
Niger natural forests.   Two economic studies carried out by the project
confirmed that the incomes from these plantations could not, even in the long:
run, cover the recurrent costs to manage them. As a result of these studies,.
the IDA financing was discontinued.
6.08 The project established, under community and farmers management, 102 ha
of new bloc plantations and about 140 km of windbreaks (equivalent to 220 ha)
in four existing agricultural irrigated schemes in the Niger valley between
1982 and 1988.   Bloc plantations proved disappointing (estimated annual
yield: 2 m3/ha) because of the very noor quality of the soils that were left
for them in these schemes, and also because of difficulties to organize the
irrigation on these soils which was not foreseen in the design of these
schemes. Windbreaks performed much better (estimated annual yield: 8 m3/ha)
since they were established on schemes borders and on canal sides where they
could better benefit from the irrigation of fields. These plantations were
not well accepted by farmers until the project decided to transfer them to
the cooperatives operating in the schemes.
6.09 This component of the project shows very clearly that irrigated tree
plantations is not a viable solution for wood production in the SSZ unless
there is a tremendous increase in market prices for wood products.
Developing windbreaks on agricultural irrigated schemes remains the only
realistic solution for irrigated forestry in the SSZ.
Natural Resources Management Schemes (Departement de Tillabery)
6.10 *Amenagements Cantonauxst As a result of the re-orientation of the
project, activities dealing with rural forestry, natural forests management,
and erosion control in the "D6partement" of Tillabery have been integrated
and developed under a new multisectoral and participative approach to natural
resources management (NRM) conceived at the 'canton' level. The 'canton' is



-9-
the first administrative unit above the village, it is the level where
traditional authorities are best represented, and it has a size which is
manageable as a basis to develop coherent pilot NRM operations.   The
"cantonsa of Tondikandia (2,600 km2 and 80 villages) and Torodi (7,000 km2
and 70 villages) have been selected to develop 'am6nagements cantonnaux^
which were to include (i) assessing NRM constraints and potential, (ii)
identifying key NRM themes, and (iii) implementing NRH programs through
village land management plans under contracts between village communities and
the project.
6.11 The activities developed under these 'amenagements cantonnaux" include
studies, specific NRM related actions, and development of a few management
plans.  Studies developed in one or the two "cantons' were overall natural
resources surveys, agro-ecological zoning to identify homogenous 'unitsw
within the 'can- ns", socio-economic surveys, and specific studies on water
resources, pastoral resources, wood consumption and trade, and dynamics of
encroachment by agriculture. Specific NRM actions were developed prior to
developing village land management plans in order to raise awareness of
villagers about NRM problems, solve immediate environment problems, and meet
social needs.   These actions include protecting villages  from erosion,
managing watersheds (see para. 6.14), establishing 13 village nurseries.
protecting natural regeneration of trees on farmland (about 17,000 seedlings
on 550 farms in 22 villages), improving and managing 3 ponds. promoting
improved stoves in 41 villages, digging one village well, building one.
village school, building one feede-r road, creating 4 village seed banks, and'
training villagers (8 literacy centers and about 30 managers of village
cooperatives). Management plans were developed for (i) the unit of Faira
(900 km2) within the 'canton' of Torodi; this management plan incorporates
the management plan of the Faira forest reserve (see para. 6.16); and (ii) 4
village lands (3 in the 'canton' of Tondikandia and one in the 'canton' of
Torodi) which have been delineated and demarcated; the contract to implement
a management plan has been established for only one village.
6.12 This component of the project was the most innovative; it has helped
develop a new understanding of and approach to NRH by forestry services; and
it has initiated methods to multisectoral and participative NRM which can be
utilized in further operations and inve:tments. However, this component is
just a beginning, since it only started involving other services than the
forestry services and could reach its initial objectives in few villages
only.
6.13 Pilot Erosion Control Program: This component was planned to begin in
1985 but started only in early 1987 because of the late recruitment of the
IDA-financed technical assistant. Instead of dealing with only one selected
watershed, this component was mainly developed in two watersheds in the
D4partement de Tillabery, one in each of the above-mentioned amenagements
cantonnauxw, but also under several small scale actions within the
"decentralized' operations (see para. 6.20).
6.14 Erosion control measures developed in the two watersheds in the
'D4partement' of Tillabery included contour bunding and small crescent-shaped
bunds ('demi-lunes") associated with tree planting on degraded land
("glacisa), and stone works ("gabions") on the flow lines in the watersheds.
These measures were mainly implemented by local populations; the project



-10-
financed  only  the  transportation  of  stones.    Participation  of  local
populations was stimulated by distribution of food for work in the 'canton'
of Torodi, or by a contract (free participation in exchange of project
financed social equipments) in the 'canton' of Tondikandia. Real population
participation and commitment were overshadowed by the above incentives and by
the project's pressing need to complete the program within schedule which
led, in some case, to a rather top-down operation. These measures resulted,
however, in the rehabilitation of 189 ha of arable land in the "cantona of
Torodi and of 106 ha in the "canton' of Tondikandia. In addition to these
physical results, this component made it possible to test simple erosion
control measures and train forest services in soil conservation techniques.
6.15 Natural Forests Management: This component was planned to cover 6,000
ha of natural forests; it has been developed actually on 14,000 ha in two
sites, as part of the above-mentioned "amenagements cantonnaux". These two
sites are (i) 8,000 ha in the Faira forest reserve in the unit of Faira in
the "canton" of Torodi, where activities planned at project appraisal have
been actually completed; and (ii) 6,000 ha on the Dorobobo plateau in the
'canton" of Tondikandia where management just started when the project was
closing.
6.16 Activities in the Faira forest reserve began with preliminary studies
which were carried out from 1985 to 1988, mainly by the technical staff of
the project with the assistance of one US and one Dutch volunteer.  These.
studies included an aerial photographic survey, an ecological study to'
identify homogenous ecological zones, a forest inventory carried out by CTFT,
a soil classification based on traditional Gourmantche uses, and a socio-
economic survey focusing on the silvo-pastoral uses of the forest by local
populations. A management plan was developed in 1989 on the basis of the
studies, which foresees an annual exploitation for fuelwood of about 500 ha
under a 15-year rotation. Exploitation in the forest is now the exclusive
right of a woodcutter cooperative established under the model developed by
the Landuse Planning Project financed by USAID (PUSF) in the Guesselbodi
forest reserve. This cooperative involves about 50 woodcutters from villages
neighboring the forest; it is managed by its members with the assistance of
the forest service. Exploiting the first 500 ha began in late 1989 together
with selling fuelwood to traders for the Niamey market; about 50? of the sale
income was distributed to woodcutters while the balance financed forestry
works and operating costs of the cooperative.
6.17 The main achievement of this component has been to promote better
management of forest resources in a key area for fuelwood supply of urban
markets. It has also been instrumental in expanding the participative PUSF
experience in natural forest manegemez.t, in integrating this experience in
the broader context of NRM, and in developing better technical knowledge and
practice in natural forest management.
'Decentralized' Operations
6.18 As a result of the re-orientation of the project, 'decentralized'
operations were developed mainly in the 'Departements' of Dosso, Tahoua,
Maradi, Zinder, Diffa and Agadez but also in the *Ddpartement' of Tillabery.
These operations were supposed to be identified by local populations,
initiated  by  'arrondissemernts'  services,  and  implemented  by  local



- 11 -
populations.  The project central unit was supposed to only supervise and
monitor  implementation.    These  operations  included  bushfire  control
(activities which were initially planned) and new environment protection and
rehabilitation activities which were not planned at appraisal.
6.19  Bushfire Control: Under this component,  a pilot bushfire control
program based in Dakoro was supposed to develop a firebreak network of about
1,000 km to protect silvo-pastoral resources from bushfires originating from
traditional campsites of herdsmen. This program was implemented in 1982 only
and developed 900 km firebreak in the initially planned area. In 1983 and
1984 this program was abandoned because the intense drought depleted the
herbaceous vegetation that is the main source of fire. As a result of the
re-orientation of the project, this program was discontinued in 1985. Other
bushfire control activities resumed in 1987 and 1988 to protect specific
targets (e.g. wooded areas, tree plantations, villages).  These activities
were developed as initiatives of 3arrondissements" services, at the alleged
request of local populations and with the participation of the latter.
Firebreaks were established over 1,770 km and 2,444 km in 1987 and 1988
respectively. The establishment of these firebreaks was not well monitored
and their actual protective impact has never been assessed. This component's
success is not evident.
6.20 Protection and Rehabilitation of the Environment: Activities developed:
under this new component were aimed at (1) protecting villages, roads,,
village and pastoral wells, ponds, farmland and bottom-land from water.
erosion and encroaching sands; and (ii) rehabilitating degraded farmland and,
improving the environment in peri-urban areas. They started in 1984 and were
expanded further to the re-orientation in 1985; they were identified by the
warrondissement'   services   and/or   requested  by   local   populations.
Achievements included sand dune fixation in 10 sites, total protection from
wood cutting and grazing (Umise en d4fens') in 9 sites, protection of bottom-
land in 16 sites, protection of 4 semi-permanent ponds and 4 pastoral wells,
windbreaks and live hedges on 110 km in 4 sites, and peri-urban plantations
("ceintures vertes")  in Diffa (140 ha) and Zinder (40 ha).   Sand dune
fixation and protection activities were developed over a total area of 1,600
ha; they consisted in fencing blocks of 100 ha which were planted
subsequently with trees and/or herbaceous plants.  Implementation was the
responsibility of local populations; the project financed material and small
equipment for fencing and producing seedlings, and distributed food for work
to stimulate local people participation.
6.21 These activities were too scattered and developed without a clear
strategy; they have not been monitored regularly and showed uneven results.
However, results were good, and sometimes impressive (e.g. sand dune
fixation), when protection was targeted to well defined objectives identified
as crucial by local populations. This component has also been positive in
that it has provided technical on-the-job training to arrondissements'
services.
Forestry Training
6.22 This component was supposed to establish and operate a small training
center for field forestry staff, and to provide training fellowships,
seminars,  and visits  for forestry officers.   The training center was



- 12 -
established in Torodi in 1986; it can accommodate 40 students. The project
has actually organized 9 sessions in this center under which 248 forestry
agents were trained in forestry but also in natural resources management
(social aspects and village land management). This center is now praised as
very useful and complementary to existing training facilities in the forestry
sector.   Under this component,  the project also financed 2 fellowships
(forest economy and land management), 2 national seminars (re-afforestation
and village land management), and 9 field training visits. This component
can be considered as a success.
Assistance to Forestry Research
6.23 The project has, in fact, entirely financed the activities (i.e.
equipment and operating costs) of the forestry research department of INRAN
from 1983 to 1990. These activities were developed under three programs with
the technical assistance of CTFT also financed by the project. They produced
the  following  results:   (i)  genetic  resources  and  tree  breeding:
identification of provenances of 4 local tree species, collection and
conservation of seeds from these provenances in a storage facility financed
by the project, distribution of about 500 kg of seeds annually to development
projects, and establishment of provenance trials; (ii) soil, water and plant
relationshipss determination of the irrigation parameters of Eucalyptus
species, and better understanding of the development of their root system-
under rainfed and irrigated conditions; and (iii) management of natural.
forests: yield data, silvicultural-techniques based on a better understanding:
of species' behavior, and soil conservation techniques. The substance and
the  operational  impact  of  these  research  results  are  very  modest,
particularly when one considers the time and resources that were provided to
these research activities.
Planv4ng and Monitoring Unit
6.24 Under this component, the planning, monitoring and studies unit
established under the first project was to be strengthened in order to
monitor technical and economic aspects of project implementation, carry out
technical and economic studies, improve formulation of forestry policies, and
prepare project follow-up activities.   The unit was run by the technical
adviser to the project director until 1987, when the Nigerien economist, who
was to head the unit, actually completed his training under project
financing.   Effective monitoring activities developed by the unit where
limited to yield and growth of irrigated plantations, marketing of poles and
fuelwood from project plantations in the Niamey area, and three surveys of
mini-nurseries established under the rural forestry component; other
activities of the project were poorly monitored. The main achievement of the
unit was an impressive array of studies which include, in addition to those
mentioned above for each project component, a thorough investigation of the
fuelvood sector in Niger which provided an important input for the
preparation of the household energy component of the Energy project now
financed by IDA  (Credit No 1880).   The unit was also instrumental in
preparing project follow-up activities which are now financed by CCCE under
the Village Land Management Support Project (PAGT).  In addition to these
activities the project also contributed to financing the preparation of a
revised land law (Code Rural), under the aegis of an ad hoc committee.



- 13
Strengthening of the Project Unit
6.25 In addition to the Torodi Training Center referred to in para. 6.21
above (training of the forestry field staff). the project financed two
scholarships abroad: in forest economy and land use planning. Also 9 study
tours were organized for a total of 21 forestry staff in Burkina Faso, Mali,
Burundi, Togo, Benin and France. One national seminar was held in 1987 on
reforestation operations.
6.26  Operational Support.   The project provided  logistical  support to
provincial   forestry   services   in   25   out   of   the   35   provinces
("arrondissements8) of Niger in terms of vehicles, equipment and operational
costs.
6.27  Technical Assistance.  The project's national team was supported by
one Chief Technical Assistant and three technical Aseistants: one in
irrigation, one agriculture and natural resources management and a third in
forestry research. The irrigation specialist was later replaced by a soil
and water conservation specialist. In addition, the project had field based
volunteers from the UN (1), Netherlands (2), France (2) and USA (1).
6.28  Seed Center.  The project supported the creation of a forestry seed
centre in 1986 in the Environment department of the ministry.   The seed
centre's objectives were to identify good seed collection areas and to.
undertake seed collection, treatment, storage and distribution. The centre'
has a 60m 3 cold room. In 1988 the centre started selling seeds in order to'
become self sustainable.
7.    Prolect Sustainability
7.01 The project as a whole is not economically sustainable even if we take
an optimistically high yield hypothesis (see Part III para. 6B of this PCR).
If we analyze the ERRs on a component by component basis, it is found that
only irrigated linear plantations (shelterbelts) in existing irrigated
agricultural perimeters are economically viable and only if they are on
fertile agricultural land and benefit, at no extra costs, from already
existing irrigation systems established for agricultural production purposes.
Another component that might be promising is tree planting under rainfed
conditions on farmers' land on individual or community basis (Rural
Plantations).   If the ERRs obtained are negative (-6Z and -2.5Z) it is
largely due to the high operating costs that include the support provided by
the Forestry Services. It is believed that more efficient support could be
provided at a lesser cost but this has to be verified. Natural forest
management by communities, helped by forestry advisors can be profitable
based on similar experiences carried out in Niger and Burkina under other
projects.
7.02 Fuelwood and poles market prices could be increased to improve the ERR
and make forest tree planting economically sustainable. People would then
turn to other sources of fuelwood supply (from natural forest) unless all
prices are increased at the same time. People's incomes are already so low
that high prices of fuelwood and poles might be hurting (less money for food,
health or education). Improved cooking stoves can alleviate the fuelwood



- 14 -
price impact and, ultimately, alternative sources of energy may become
economically more attractive as it is already the case for kerosene in Niamey
town.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01 Pro1ect preparation was based on a series of studies conducted, in
80/81, by Bank and/or CCCE staff and consultants. Yields estimates at the
time of identification and appraisal were overly optimistic and did not take
into consideration rainfall pattern over a long period (frequent droughts)
and actual site conditions (most soils available are poor). It is probable
that the estimates, either relied on incomplete data and research results, or
were based on their empirical extrapolation.
8.02 Supervision. There were 14 IDA supervision missions in over 7 years: 9
one-person missions and five two-people missions. All missions were led by a
forester. Only one mission (Dec. 1982) had an economist on the team and four
had an irrigation specialist. On three occasions, there was no supervision
mission for a whole year (see Part III, para. SB). Also supervisions did not
deal with project's financial management specially with regards to
harmonization  between  financial  reporting  by  the  project  and  by  the.
cofinanciers and financial estimates as per-the Staff Appraisal Report. The
supervision figures given above are taken from the Bank's Supervision Reports,
(forms No. 590) which do not mention the staff from cofinancing agencies,
taking part to these missions. In Part III para. SB of this PCR, this
information has been added. Considering the complexity of the project and the
major program shift in 1985, there was a need for a larger number of
supervision missions by multidisciplinary teams. Considering a supervision
norm of 12 staff-weeks/year, there should have been a total of 102 SWs
instead of the actual 67.6 SWs in 8.5 years. Better supervision could have
led to the establishment of a better monitoring and evaluation system. The
absence of economists on the supervision teams is now felt when attempting to
establish economic rates of return for the project.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01 On a comparative basis, th overall borrower's performance on this
project has been good. The national professional team (of about 15) was
qualified and project management is to be commended. The national team was
assisted   by   four   expatriates:   Technical   Advisor,   Irrigation/Soil
Conservation,  Rural  Development  and  Forestry  Research.  The  project
implementation suffered occasionally from lengthy Government procedures,
particularly with regards to procurement.
9.02 The project monitoring system permitted the collection of an impressive
amount of data. The processing and analysis of these data, as it appears
through the reports produced by the project, does not seem to have been done
in a systematic way and according to a pre-defined methodology. This made
evaluations difficult to be carried efficiently. A proper monitoring &
evaluation system should have, systematically and regularly, monitored a
specific and limited set of parameters, and measured the physical and
financial inputs and outputs for each project component in order to determine



- 15 -
the technical and economic feasibility of the different types of operations
initiated under the projects areas and number of seedlings planted per year,
species, technique and type of soil; time of planting and rainfall received;
survival rate and replanting; yields in each of the above cases and actual
harvests, various costs and incomes, etc. In other words it should enable
project management to trace the full history of each operation (a certain
type of plantation for example) in order evaluate its performance and take
the necessary measures that may be required. The CCCE carried out in 1988 a
technical and economic audit; a similar audit should have been done jointly
in June 1990 at the date of project completion.
9.03 The cost accounting system set up for the project was fairly effective:
all costs were properly recorded but some were lumped together and cost
allocation among the different project components was not possible for the
establishment of accurate economic rates of return (for instance, the
administrative charges, equivalent to 23? total project costs were not split
among the different project components).
10.   Proiect Relationship
10.01 Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower and between Bank-
Borrower and cofinancing agencies were good'. Communication could have been
greatly improved if the Bank had more time/staff to allocate to supervision."
11.   Proiect Documentation and Data
11.01 Development Credit Agreement.  According to the supervision reports
available for this project, all DCA covenants were complied with, except for
the covenant under section 3.02 of the DCA where the Borrower could not make
available, as agreed upon, the total amount of his financial contribution.
11.02 Staff Appraisal Report. The SAR was useful during for project
implementation until the date of project reorientation in 1985. The changes
made at that time were reported in the fifth supervision report which focused
mainly on changes in the Project Description (Chapter IV of the SAR) but not
on changes in Production, Marketing and Financial Results, and in Benefits,
Justification and Risks (Chapter VI and VII). This would have facilitated
project supervision and evaluation in the following years and at completion.
11.03 Other Documents. Annual project reports, final project report, CCCE
completion report and several special reports were readily available for the
purpose of PCR's preparation. However, because of differences of formats from
one report to another, particularly after the 1985 project reorientation, the
task of comparing and synthesizing data was very tenuous and sometimes
impossible. On the accounting side, the cost accounting system established
by the Borrower tried to allocate the costs by project component while the
Bank's accounting system works by expense category (civil works, equipment,
salaries, etc.) and cofinanciers have their own system. This makes financial
and economic analysis tedious and sometimes impossible and an attempt should
have been made to make the systems compatible. Again, if a good monitoring
and evaluation system was put in place at the start of the project, this task
would have been greatly facilitated.



- 17 -
PART IIs PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. A praisal of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
1.    Appraisal of Bank Performance.  On the whole, the Bank has played a
steady and effective role in the implementation of the project.   Through
supervision missions which were carried out more regularly and frequently (2
missions per year) until 1988, the Bank was able to closely follow the
evolution of the project. This made it easier to take timely, actions which
proved to be critical for the life of the project, for example the
reorientation of the project and postponement of the closing date. However,
the project suffered towards the end (in 1989 and 1990) from the slackening
of supervision missions which were reduced to only one mission annually. To
a certain 6xtent, the project also suffered fcor several other reasons,
mainly5
-     the remoteness of the decision-taking center; it is important to
underline here the lack of decision power of the Bank's Field
Office in Niamey which only transmits aide-memoires of
supervision missions to which it often does not participate. So,
all matters have to be referred to Washington.
the great mobility of the project's supervision staff  (Task;
Managers): they have to be consulted on every decisiorn, but they.
are most of the time travelling, therefore away from their work
place; they are usually in charge of supervising several projects
and sometimes in different parts of the world.
-     the change of supervisox  (Task Manager) for a project nearing
completion naturally affected the preparation of a follow-up
project.
-     the delays in the requests for payments and disbursements; the
present mechanism of the Bank's disbursement procedures results
very rapidly in financial deadlock.
-     the hesitancy to implement Technical Assistance.
-     unexpected interruption of financing of actual ongoing projects,
due to sudden changes of Bank's policy and vision.
2.    Lessons Learned.  The following points could be considered, for future
prospects:
-     facilitate the daily functioning of the projects: more decision-
taking power and responsibilities could be given to the Bank's
Field Office. While the borrowing countries are called upon for
more decentralization, some development aid agencies, including
the Bank, still have very centralized structures;



- 18 -
-     prevent the project supervisors' mobility by limiting the number
of projects they supervise, while dlso taking into consideration
projects' geographic location.
_     avoid, if possible, staff changes at certain critical stages of
the project cycle.
When the Bank is suddenly brought about to change its investment policies, it
has to ensure that its partners (the borrowing countries) are not suddenly
penalized. In other words, *the implementation of Bank's new policies should
be planned in such a way as to take into consideration actual situations and
ongoing projects.
B. Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned
1.    Borrower's Performance.   The strongest political commitment of the
Government of Niger to strug&le against desertification was expressed during
the implementation of the FPrestry Project Phase II.  Thus the Government
organized in 1984 a national debate on the struggle against desertification,
which resulted in the solemn engagement of all the nation's actors to combat
without mercy this calamity. Another important fact was the elaboration of
a master plan for the struggle against desertification. For the first time,'
the Government agreed to important financial commitments in launching the!
Interim Reforestation Program (PIR), financed with national funds and'
executed at the regional level. Similarly, the Government regularly provided
- and took charge of - the necessary professional staff, and granted
independent management to the project as requested.
It is also important to underline that it was during the execution of
the project that the country's economic and financial problems increased.
As a result, the Government was not able from 1984 to fully meet all its
commitments, in particular those of the national investment fund.   The
Project also suffered from the administrative sluggishness of the central
services of the Nigerien Administration, particularly the long procedures of
public bidding.
2.    Lessons Learned. After the severe droughts of the 19709, the struggle
against desertification was mainly perceived and conceived as reforestation
actions. Thus the main objective of the Forestry Project's two phases was to
undertake intensive reforestation for production purposes for the supply of
firewood and construction timber to the country's urban centers. However,
the limLtations of this struggle against desertification emerged through the
implementation  of the project.    It became  evident  that the  rational
management of existing forestry resources with people's participation (rural
or social forestry) should be more heavily stressed . But the most important
lesson learned from the Forestry Project is that the struggle against
desertification can only be conceived as a global approach to the rural
sector development and to natural resources management. As a result, the
Forestry Project abandoned its original sectoral approach and initiated the
'Gestion des Terroirs' approach in Niger. This new approach was ratified by



- 19 -
the Economic and Social Developmental Plan of 1987-1991 as a framework for
implementing the policies in the rural development sector in Niger.
C.    Evaluation of the Effective Relationship between the Bank and Niger.
Relations between the Bank and Niger were excellent all along the
project implementation period as demonstrated by exceptional lifespan of the
project (9 years instead of 5 for the second phase).  Also in 1988, the Bank
closed all the rural sector development projects, with the exception of the
Forestry Project which lasted intil June 1990.
D.    Evaluation of the Relationship with Cofinanciers and their Performance
1.    The cofinanciers of the Project are the French public assistance
agencies, namely CCCE and FAC.   As CCCE's local representation has more
decision-making  power,  quick  solutions  were  made  possible  on matters
involving CCCE and pertaining to current day-to-day running of the project.
As far as joint supervision missions are concerned, the comments made earlier
regarding the Bank apply to the CCCE and FAC.  Moreover, CCCE was the first
donor to stop financing certain components of the project. CCCE was also the
one which caused the most problems to the project accounting because of:
constant disagreement regarding the allocation of costs. With regards to the,
FAC which was only financing technical assistance, project management was not
well aware of the financial situation of the FAC funds as these funds were
directly administered by the French Ministry of Cooperation.
2.    Relations between cofinanciers and Niger.
As for the Bank, the relations between GON and the French Cooperation
partners were excellent during the whole project life.  The three reports
following the closing date confirm the above statement. But the best proof
of the excellent quality of the relations between GON and the French
Cooperation is, without doubt, the French unilateral and sovereign decision
to finance a follow-up projects the SuppGrt Project to the 'Gestion des
Terroirs' (PAGT).



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit                    Purpose                                 Year of
ritle                                                            Approval    Status
Cr. 441                   Increase self-sufflciency               12J07/73    closed
Drought Relief Project    through farm and herd
improvements.
Cr. 608                   Establishment and maintain-             02/06(76    closed
Maradi I                  ance of rural wood plantations
Cr. 800                   Strengthen Forestry Dept. and           0S/07/78    closed
Pilot and Technical       create a capacity for planning,
Assance Forestry          managing and monitoring
Project                   of Torestry activities
Cr. 851                   Expand cereal and vegetable             02115/79    closed
Irrigation Project        production through develop-
ment of a ,550 ha pdder
along Niger River
Cr. 967                   Increase farm, incomes and              06/12/80    closed
Dosso ADP                improve walfare of nral
population of Dosso, and
build extension services
Cr. 1028                  Expansion of improved                   06/06/80    closed
Maradi 11                 agriuural practies
In rainfed farming areas
Cr. 1618                  Increase food production and            06/25/85    under SPN
Irrigation Rehabiliation  farm Incomes, promote indepen-
dant management of irrigation
perimeters by farmers
Cr. 1880                  Promote firewood conservation          03/18/88     under SPN
Energy                    and substitution, natural forest
mangement, renewable energy
development, electricity conserva-
tion and petroleum exploration
Cr. 1890                  Deveopment of instiona                  03/29/88    under SPN
Smal Rural Operatom       apacity in preparation
and execution of emal
nal operatons
Cr. 2122                  Strengthen national ag.                 04/10/80    effectiveness
Agrultuxal Research       research planing and                                imminert
implementation capacity.



_ 22 -
2. Proect Timetable
Phase                  Original Date        Revised Date       Actual Date
(MM/DDIYY)
RapaFatiln             1980-1981                               1980-1981
Appraial Mission       05/18/81                                05181-06/81
Negotiations           01/82                                   01/82
Approval               03/82                                   04/06/82
Signature                                                      04/20/82
Effectiveness          07/20/82                                10/05/82
Project completion     12/30/86                                12/31/89
Credft closing         06/30/87             6/30/88, 6/30/89   06/30/90



- 23 -
3. Dbursenwt of Credk
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY   Otr Cum. Etinmate    Actua    Actua Cum.         Actual      Actald Cum.    Act/Est
USS          SDR        SDR                USS         USS
82   1
2
3
4    500,000    631,937.18    831,937.18       676,582.19    676,582.19   135%
83   1                258,388.22    890,325.40       282,574.59    959,158.78
2   1,20,000     148,701.95   1,039,027.35     159,555.28   1,118,712.06   93%
3                148,763.98   1,187,791.33     156,893.92   1,275,605.98
4   2,300,000    171,813.16   1,359,604.49     180,382.08   1,455,988.06   63%
84   1                  4,105.03   1,403,709.52      46,214.82   1,50,o202.88
2   3,150,000   161,578.65   1,565,8.17        168,943.30   1,671,148.18   53%
3                18,687.42   1,583,955.59       18,948.74   1,690,094.J2
4   4,050,000   391,36250   1,975,318.09       389,268283   2,079,357.75   51%
85   1                 93,824.98   2,069,143.05      91,426.13   2,170,783.88
2   5,000,000    145,789.87   2,214,932.92     144,724.55   2,315,508.43   48%
3                12,821.81   2,227,754.73       13,200.25   2,328,708.68
4   5,950,000   250,612.69   2,478,367.42      288,582.14   2,597,270.82   44%
88   1                 83,562.05   2,56i,929.47      94,961.02   2,692,231.84
2   7,150,000   184,680.39   2,726,80O.86      192,193.63   2,884,425.47   40%
3               118,62278   2,845,232.64       143,200.06   3,027,625.53
4   8,350,000    167,334.19   3,012,566.83     199,851.70   3,227,477.23   39%
87   1                368,989.34   3,381,556.17     462,056.28   3,689,533.51
2  9,350,000    319,811.35   3,701,367.52      416,597.58   4,106,131.07   44%
3               359,684.01   4,081,051.53      481,516.28   4,567,647.35
4  10,100,000   380,900.63   4,441952.16       514,465.40   5,082112.75    50%
88   1                229,539.04   4,671,491.20      314,742.73   5,396,855.48
2               315,003.95   4,986,485.15      427,063.54   5,823,925.02   58%
3               523,037.78   5,509,532.93      677,742.50   6,501,6f7.52
4               356,068.85   5,865,621.78      478,409.31   6,980,076.83   69%
so   1                470,265.43   6,335,917.21      618,289.01   7,598,365.84
2               380,013.31   6,715,930.52      476,927.35   8,075,293.19   80%
3               314,523.38   7,030,453.90      394,755.57   8,470,048.76
4               435,833.12   7,468,287.02      557,526.24   9,027,575.00   89%
90   1                *74,130.47   7,640,417.49      229,456.4e   9,257,031.46
2               359,848.99   8,000,266.48      469,181.74   9,726,213.20   96%
3               38Z960.31   8,383,216.79       52249,.50  10,249,022.70
4                119,421.02   8,502,837.81     169,777.86  10,418,800.58  103%
Dicrepancy bemween Credi dor anmunts is due to SDRAUS$ exchange rate fluctuations.
Credi closd on Octob&. 31, 1990.
Fita dsburseentm made on November 6, 1990.
Originl Credi amount SUDR =   8,O800,00.00
Amunct actualy dIbumsed SDRB =   8,502,637.81
ActualjEstimated SDRs              97%
AmunLt canoeed SfPti =         297,38619



- 24 -
4. _vect Imolementatlon
Indicators                       Appaia                  Actual
Estimate               (or PCR estimate)
(a) Rura Forestry
(4 Nursery establishment        1,500 units            670 unis
(ii) Tree planthg               6,200 ha equiv.         1,750 ha equiv.
(b) State-manaaed Forests
and Tree Plantations
() Management of edsting
plantatib                   760 ha                  779 ha
(ii) Establishment and mgt.
of new pantations            1,500 ha               782 ha
(ii)Gum tree plantations        750                     330 ha
(IV) Mg. of gum tree
natual forests              6,000 ha                 0
(c) irrgaed Plantation
(I MgL of exsting
plantion (industiW)         240 ha                  240 ha
(iQ Establishmert and mgt.
ofnew plantaUons            200 ha equiv.           220 ha equiv. (1)
(in agricuhtur pemeters)                            102 ha
(d) Watershed Management          1 waterhed             0 (2)
(d*) Erosion Contrd Measures
.fhing of contrdled areas     0                       303 ha
.and dune fxation             0                       410 ha
Management of Bottomiand     0                       20 ha
(e) Natura Forest Mot            6,000 ha                0(3)
(e*) Communivt Land Mq           0 ha                    14,100 ha
(f BEushfire Contd                1,000 km               5,114 km
(flrebrs)
CommenWt
(1) 143 ksm of shelterbes
(2) opration repled by Eroson Contrd MeaSUre (d*)
(3) opeation converled, after fu years shtdies, into agrosivopastoral comrmunky land management (e*)



_ 25 -
S. Project Costs and Financing
A. P roct Costs
(Us$ millions)
----- Apprleal_Estimate                       Actual    -     -
IDA  CCCE  FAC CON   TOTAL         IDA   CCCE    FAC   CON    TOTAL
1. Clvil Works            0.6   0.2   -       -      0.7     0.64      t/   -        -0
2. Vehicles A             1.6   0.6                  2.1     0.940      t/   -       _
Equipment
S. Forestry Works,        2.4   1.0   -        -     8.4     6.768      y    -       - 
Labor A Salaries
4. Consultants and        0.9   -       1.2   -      2.1      1.146      -   0.822  -       1.988
Experts
S. Salary of              0.2   -       -     0.2   0.4      0.026       -   -       -      0.026
lEncadreure
6. Other Operating Costs  1.0   0.4   -        0.2   1.6     0.652      _/   -       0.289    pi
7. Refunding of PPF       0.4                        0.4     0.857       -   -       -      0.367
8. Salaries of                                0.6   0.8                  -   -       0.812  0.312
Civil Servants
9. Contingencies          8.2   1.4   0.4   0.3  65.          -          -   -       -
10. Adjustment for                                           0.090       -      _     
Special Account
devaluations
TOTAL                10.1   8.6   1.6   1.6  16.08    10.418  2.734   0.622  0.601 14.676
/ Costs borne by CCCE, FAC end GON were converted from CFA values provided in the project final
report and the final audit report, converted at the avorage rat. of 865 CFA to the US dollar.
J Breakdown of CCCE cost. per category could not be obtained.
B  PrOF  n: Fln:ncIn
Planned         Actual
IDA                   10.1            10.418
CCCE                   8.6             2.7S4
FAC                    1.6             0.822
CON                    1.6             0.601
TOTAL                 16.8            14.575



- 26 -
6. Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits (estimated by year 1992)
Indicators            Appraisal Estimate              Present Estimate
for year 1992                  for year 1992
a) Rural Forestry
1,75m3/ha/yr                    lm3/ha/Yr
over 6,200 ha                   over 1,750 ha
b) Production from state managed rainfed plantations
- Phase I           2.5m3/ha/yr                      0.6-0.8m3/ha/yr
over 760 ha                     over 779 ha
- Phase II          2,5m3/ha/yr                      1m3/ha/yr
over 1,500 ha                   over 782 ha
- Phase II          240kg/ha/yr                      50kg/ha/yr
(Gum trees)      over 750 ha                     over 330 ha
c) Production from irrigated plantation
- Phase I           20m3/ha/yr                        3.5m3/halyr
over 240 ha                      over 135 ha
and 7m3/ha/yr
over 105 ha
- Phase II          15m3/ha/yr                        3m3/ha/yr
over 200 ha                      over 102 ha
and 8m3/ha/yr
over 220 ha equiv.



_ 27 -
B. Economic ImDact
81. ERR Tables
TABLE 1: Economic Rate of Return by ComDonent
COMPONENTS                ESTIMATES OF ERR          X OF PROJECT'S TOTAL COSTS
Appraisal    PCR             Appraisal      PCR
IRRIGATED PLANTATIONS           36.0      -5                6.0            18
RAINFED PLANTATIONS
.State Managed Plantations    10.1       -19               17.0          15
Rural Plantations             18.9      -6                12.0           14
.Cum Plantations               10.9      -28               10.9            1
OVERALL                        lTT 9       11               45.9           48
TABLE 2:  Detallod Analysis of Irriaated Plantations Component
Economic Rates of Roturn (X)
Phase 1            Phase 2
.Industrial (State managed)         -29                 -
.Wind Break (Farmer managed)        -                  9.6
.Block      (Farmer managed)        -                 -8
OVERALL                            -2L
NVERALL (Phase 1   Phas  2)                  -5
TABLE 8: Detalled Analysis of Rainfed Plantations Componont
Economic Rates of Return ()
Phase 1 Phase 2   Overall            Phase 1 Phase 2  Overall
(Hypotheosis 1)                      (Hypothesis 2)
State managed Plantations           41    NPV(O       -19                        -21       -0.7
.Rural Plantations                    -     -4        -6                 -        - 2.6    -2.5
Cum Plantations                      -      -23       -28                 -      - 7       -7
Hvootiiesis 1:                                 Hysothesis 2:
Wood yilld production                         Wood yield production
State Managed   a 1.3/ha/year                  State Managed    2.8/ha/year
.Rural Plantations 1.8/ha/year                 Rural Plantationd.176m8/ha/year
Gum production    .50kg/he/year                Gum production    =100kg/ha /year



- 28 -
B2. Not - on ERR table.
1.    This exercise I  limited to 4 components of the project (out of 11) for which quantification
of coots and benefits 1 possible. The"n 4 components which have consumed 48 X of the project's
estimated expense Include a) Rainfed plantation, Irrigated plantation, Rural forestry, and Gum
plantation. Table 1 shows tho estimated ERR for each cosponnt, a well as the reepective allocation
of the project expenss to each component. Key parameter estimoteo such as wood and gum yield are
also proented. An Oovorlil ERR Is computed, based on the welghted average of the ERR for each
componont. Cost. of Individual components are used as weights. The detail. of the calculotions are
presented In attached tabloe.
2.   The derivation of Economic costs and benofIts is very approximate. Estimates of costs ar- based
on figures from the project's lost audit report. Adjustments have been made on  porsonnel  costs,
using a conversion factor of .86 as was suggosted In the appraisal report. Deprociation are taken
out and project lnvostment cost. are used. Only invostment items necesoary for the Implementation
of the 4 component. have been used. Al locatione to each component are derIved from the sharo of the
respectivo component In depreciation figuroe presented In the audit reports. Management overhead
cost. are excluded.
S.    Production from the pilot operation, implemented during the 8 years preceding effectiveness
of this project has been considered. This includes 240 ha of irrigated plantation, and 779 ha of
rainfed. The corresponding investment costs and tho maintenance cost. prior tc 1982 are considered
sunk costs, and thus not included in the analysis. This explains the highly positive outcome of tho
first phase of the State managed rainfed plantation (41).
4.  Overall, the economic evaluation of the project based on quantifiable costs and benefits shows
a disappointing performnee. The rate of return is estimated at -11X against 14X as appraisal
estimates. NHowevr, the projoct's individual components exhibit varying degrees of failures, and
Indeed some coponent. e.g. irrigated plantation  show signs of potential viability. At the same
time, it appears that State managed plantations via Irrigation or rainfed have bleak prospects.
5.   Irrigated Plantations- The overall ERR for this component Is -65  and this figure includes a.
disastrous outcome (-29%) for the industrial pthntation sub-component despite the exclusion of sunk'
costs. This Is followed by the on-farm block plantation In Irrigated perimeters which yields a -8X;
ERR. However, the wind break plantation in Irrigated porimeters show an encouraging result with a
.6X1 ERR. In retrospect, it appers that anticipated wood yields were too ambitious. Actual yieldo
range between 8 to 8 m8 per ha, leos than 25% of the appraimel estimates of 15 to 20 m3. For this
reson, industrlal plantations (because of their high cost.) and block plantations In irrigated
perimeters (which tend to be mde in the lose suitable areas) have poor economic prospects. On the
other hand, wind break plantations are cheaper than the Industrial plantations; in addition, they
are planted along irrigation canals, and thus are both well watered and not subject to being planted
Into poorer *oils.
6.     Rainfed Plantattons- The results show a hopeless outcome for the State mnaged rainfed
plantations. Even when considering a yield of 2 ma/ha/year, I.e. twice the more likely outcome of
1 mS/ha, the ERR Is -21X. The high positive ERR (41t) shown for the phase one plantations is not
realistic because the establishment cost and maintenance cost. prior to 1982 are not included.
Voreovor, eo of tho plantations were abandoned after 1982, thus limiting the total maintenance
cost. of the phas. one plantation after 1982. To the extent that the result. of this project can
be gnerallaod, this form of plantation should be abandoned. The poor result of the rural plantation
(-6X) Is a surprising disappointmnt, deeplit the rather optimistic assumption that yields In those
plantations are the sam  as those in stat. managed raln?od of 1 &$/h. Actually even with a ylold
of 1.75 m3/ha, the result Is still a negativo of -2.65  Cleorly, this type of plantation has been
developed at unduly high cost.  Although the etimated operating cost. per ha for this type of
plantation represent. over one thrd of the cost. of state smnage  plantations, thee costs still
rmain too high due to the very high input of projet staff. This my be understandablo at the
beginning of the projoct (extension and promotion of a new activity) but cannot be sustainable on
a continuous besis.
7.    Gm prodestloe- This component shows a disappointing result. Yields represent lose than one
four of the appraisal estltes. Even with yi-lda twice as high as those obtained, ERR would be a -
7X Not. that the PCR estimtes of Gum prices are those of the apprai"l report. Thus, even in the
context of solid Indication of good prospect. for Gum prices, the development by the State of such
plantations should be discontinuod. Productlon cost. are likely to be high and compensating yields
unlikely to be achieved.



- 29 -
C. Studies
Studies          Purposo                     Status         Impact of Study
as defined
at appraisal
Rural forestry  Select sites for first       done           670 nurserIes established
survey           mint-nurseries, taking      (1982)
Into account wator and
land availability and
willingness of rural
populations to partici-
pate in schemes to pro-
toect end mintain their
plantations.
Improved Wood   Critical soclo-economic    study carried
Stoves           and efficieney analysis    out under
of existing woodstoves      ESMAP (1987)
programs, and possible
substitutes
Watershed        Identify existing water-   done            watersheds Identif ed
Management       sheds where techniques of                  techniques developed, described and
Survey           watershed management could                 disseminated
be introduced                              program implemented
Economic         -Optimal price structure   not done
Study             for wood from plantations
and natural foreste
-Roecurrent cost financing  not done
of forostry projecta
-Organization of wood       done           thtI study served as   base I ne study for
m-rkoting                  (1984)         the preparation of the Household Energy
component of the Energy project financod
by IDA
Organization    Recomend a better            done           thIs study served as a base lIno study for
of the forestry means of organizing          (1984)         the preparation of the Household Energy
-rket            the exploitation of                        compo"snt of the Energy project financed
forestry resources                         by IDA
to reduce Illicit
wood-cutting within
the general frooework
of wood conservation
Technical and   not scheduled                done           study showod that irrigated plantation are
Fronomic study                               (1986)         not sustaInable and proposed technical and
o*  lrrigated                                               economic T-provemnte
plantation



-30-
7. Status of Covenants
Brief Description                       DCA sectlon   Compliance          Remarks
of Covenants
applicablo
Open and mintain Project Account             8.02      not fully met         Borrower encountered
financial problems
Employment of key staff                      8.08      met
and provision of resources
Employment consultants                       8.04      met
acceptable to IDA
Propose, submit to IDA and                   8.05      met
carry out work program
Provide participating farmers                8.06     not
with plastic bags
Provide IDA with curricula                   8.07      met
for training center
Contract with ONANA to establish thelr       8.08 (a) met
rosponsibilitime for Part C of Project
Contract INRAN to carry out research         3.08 (b) met
program
Insurance of goods                           8.09 (a) met
Exclusive use of project-procured            8.09 (b) met
good for Project
Provision to IDA of all documentation        8.10 (a) Met
concernifg procurement
Maic.tenance of proper records of Project   8.10 (b) met
progress
PCR (Part II)                                8.10 (d) met
Acquisition of land rights necessary         8.11      Met
Maintenance of Project Account               4.01 (a) met
accounts
Audit of account.                            4.02      met
Recovery mechntsm for establishment for   4.08         met
cost of Irriglted plantations
Collection of fee  for harvesting wood       4.04      net
Maintenance and Inspection of all            4.06 (b) met
facilities



- 31 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inpu"s (in staff weeks)
FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 TOTAL
Preparation   7.8  10.5  0.4      22.7                                                           41.4
Appraisal                          22.1  12.6                                                    34.7
Negotiatons                              4.2                                                      4.2
Supervision                              1.5  10.7  7.9  6.4   6.2  12.5  8.2  7.2  6.8  0.2   67.6
PCR                                                                                        6.0   6.0
Other       0.5                    0.1  3.7        1.3  0.2   3.9  2.0   2.1  2.0                15.8
TOTAL       8.3  10.5  0.4   0 1/ 44.9  22.0  10.7  9.2  6.6  1C.1  14.5  10.3  9.2  6.8  6.2  169.7
1/ No information is available from the MIS on FY80.
B. Missions (Staff and consultants)
Cofinarcier staff
Phase of Cycle   Month/year    IDA Staff + Consultants  + Consultants     Performance 3/  Problems 4/
No.people/No.days/Specialties    No.people
Appraisal        05/81         3    18    a,b,c,d,e,        5
Supervision (NI) 03-04/82      2     8    b,f               3                 1
Supervision (N2)    12182      2    15    a, b              2                 1
Supervision (N3)   07/83       2    13    b, f                                2           M, T
Supervsion (N4)    06/84       1     8    b                 2                 2           M, T
Spervision (N5)    02/85       2    11    b, f              5                 2           M, T
Supervision       07/85        1    11    b                                   2           M,T
Supervision (N6) 02-03/86      1     7    b                 7                 2           5/
Supervision (N7)    02/87      2    18    b,f               3                 2
Supervn (N8) 07-08/87          1    14    b                                   2
Supervsion (N9)    12/87       1     8    b                 3                 2
Supervision       05/88        1     4    b                 2
Superviscn (N1O)   10/88       1     4    b                 2                 2
Supervision (N11)   06/89      1     6    b                 1                 2
Supervision       06/90        1     4    b                 I
,     g/ a=economist, b=forestry, c=sod conservation, d=training, e=stove specialist,
f = irrigation specialist, g = unknown
3/ 1 = no or minor problens, 2 = moderate problems, 3 = major problems
4/ F_inancial, M = managerila, T= technical, P = political, O =other
5/ With introduction of new 590 fomat, problem identification no longer took this form.



A IC c  t rh   I
CAISSE CENTRALE DE COOPERATION ECONOMIQUE
Paris
Mr. Salah Darghouth                                            October 15, 1991
Division Chief, AFlAG [sic]
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
N/REF.DPE/DRS J'D/CA
RE:  Niger:  Proiect ComDletion Report on Second Forestry Project
Dear Sir:
I enclose our agency's comments on the above Project Completion
Report.
As you have noted, Caisse Centrale itself produced an evaluation
of the Forestry Project in 1989.1 Overall, its conclusions concur with those
of your own PCR.
In retrospect, one advantage of the Forestry Project was that it
tested various forms of alternative to the conventional approach based on
rainfed plantations of exotic species, and was thus somewhat set apart both
from the sort of reforestation operations that donors had so far supported
(the results of which had not been particularly satisfactory) and from newer
types of operation, such as the agroforestry and forest management projects
that have nowadays become much more important.
This change in attitudes seems to have been helped by the
harmonious relationships and motivation shown by all the forestry staff,
including Nigerien nationals, technical assistants and project supervisors.
T he forest management operations and cooperatives have thus
prepared the way for more ambitious programs as part of a revised fuelwood
subsector (under the World Bank Energy Project), the purpose being to supply
wood to the city of Niamey from forests managed by rural communities.
j/    Prepared by C. Barrier.



- 34 -
Similarly, the project initiated Niger's first village land use
management operations, thus confirming that it is essential that such
activities no longer be confined within the excessively sectoral activities of
forestry departments.
Although, unquestionably, the economic results of the project were
mediocre, it served what may perhaps prove to have been its real purpose by
both confirming the excessively restrictive (and therefore inefficient)
character of previous reforestation strategies and by opening the way to more
comprehensive strategies.
It should be noted that Caisse Centrale itself is now financing
the first autonomous land use management project in the Department of Filingue
and providing support for three-year land use management projects in Niamey,
the purpose being to ensure that project gains are made sustainable and to
contribute additional know-how that will benefit land use management and
natural resource projects in Niger.
Sincerely,
/s/ Jean-Claude Deveze
pp. Director of the Policy and Studies Department



__| j\AL1GEtA  $IA>y,
IAetItAN,A |J       , 
RAAEAP$YZ cc:  ijl{t A&F)   /4'/                                                                                                                               .
NIGCER                                                                                    tz                                                                                s~               7
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                             K
F feune Feterv5s
*9o  EAsre  rserveso                                                            / 
GSIAIONS ZONES979                                                    /
2Ou ~~~Soheren ZonFe''o   
A     _ERLWFA ST A)AR¶TIO.
A            L    I                                                                                                                                                                       f        LA
212  AR tSZRA AJNER w1in6rsis/                                                     
AAle o teee *_UA                                                             -1 
ADree SAnto onto IenrtN ZONE 1AAL,LW ~~ 
_                                                              /~~~~~~~~rO
-hA NISA5EYTR   
DAELA SCthIAu eEtEtR  ASAIA Aoe>bUb WSHLND Rb  __ _-  _     -                                                    K
ItAte  D}SeI/llit,, 5PtS/l  eqslAN         te                                                                                                                                                      P    ...
---- LAtesis,tnt BeLnd_r et                iN __'                                                                           ~                  {       .1
ol    R S  ee  A                                                                                           (       .   1) 55 0
RUV R KIN    m                                                                                                                                                                                 Ng
U'  A'td6oezru4ssN  wsraLv>,_ I tp                                  '  N        I         G   E      R     I    A                                                               m                  A
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'O'  1992



