Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE COPY
Report No. P-3244-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
March 17, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ody In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout Word Dak authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -  CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1 million - US$ 3,704
US$l            -  CFAF 270
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE   -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
FAC    -  Fonds d-Aide et de Cooperation (France)
INRAN  -  Institut National de la Recherche Agronodique du Niger
IPDR   -  Institut Pratique de Developpeeient Rural
MDR    -  Ministry of Rural Development
PPF    -  Project Preparation Facility
ONAHA -  Office National des Amenagements Rydro-Agricoles



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Niger
Amount:              SDR 8.8 million (US$10.1 million)
Terms:               Standard
Project              The project would consist of:  (a) improving supplies of
Description:      fuelwood, building poles, tree fodder and other minor
forest products for the rural and urban population with
special emphasis on a considerably expanded rural par-
ticipation in afforestation; and (b) a continuation of the
education and training process started under the first
project (Credit 800-NIR), through reinforcing the Forestry
Department, helping the Government develop a better
forestry policy and testing different approaches to
forestry development in Niger in particular and the Sahel
in general.
Project Risks:       The project would inevitably involve risks given the lack
of suitable technical packages for reforestation and the
newness of large scale tree plantations in Niger. Perhaps
the most risky component is the rural tree plantations
and the uncertainty as to the immediate responsiveness of
the rural population to participate in the operation.
Therefore, and although the Niger small farmer environment
seems quite receptive to reforestation, the component
would be subject to ongoing evaluation to steer it toward
desired objective.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Seccird Forestry Project
Estimated Costs:
Foreign   Local    Total
-------US$ million------
1.   Civil Works                                 0.2       0.5       0.7
2.   Equipment                                   1.7       0.5       2.2
3.   Field Forestry Works 1/                     1.2       2.4       3.6
4.   Operating Staff                              -        1.2       1.2
5.   Expatriates and Consultants 1/              2.2        -        2.2
6.   Other Operating Costs                       0.4       1.2       1.6
Total Base Costs                      5.7       5.8      11.5
Physical Contingencies                0.3       0.4       0.7
Price Contingencies                   1.9       2.7       4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         7.9       8.9      16.8
Financing Plan:
Foreign   Local    Total   %
IDA                                   4.9       5.2      10.1    60
CCCE                                  1.4       2.2       3.6    21
FAC                                   1.6        -        1.6    10
Government                             -        1.5       1.5      9
Total                                 7.9       8.9      16.8   100
Estimated Disbursements:
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Annual                     0.5 1/  1.8       1.7      1.9      2.4      1.8
Cumulative                 0.5      2.3      4.0      5.9      8.3    10.1
1/   Includes US$0.4 million PPF advance.



- iii -
Rate of Return: The estimated average ERR is 14 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3632-NIR
Map: IBRD 15903



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of Special Drawing Rights 8.8 million (US$10.1
million) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Niger to help finance a
proposed second forestry project. The CCCE and FAC would contribute US$3.6
million and US$1.6 million respectively to the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" (RN 1109a-NIR) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic updating
mission visited Niger in February 1981, and the main findings of the mission
are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Annex I contains country data.
Background
3.        Until recently, Niger was a resource-poor country.  Consumption as
a proportion of GDP was high and sometimes in excess of domestic production.
Accordingly, gross domestic savings were very low or negative, and most
investment, modest at 12 percent of GDP, was financed by foreign savings.
However, the situation changed in the 1975-80 period, reflecting rapidly
growing uranium revenues: in 1979, at the peak of the uranium boom, uranium
mining accounted for 16 percent of GDP, about 80 percent of total export
earnings, and 39 percent of government revenue. As a result, gross domestic
savings, which represented 9 percent of GDP in 1975 grew to 14 percent of GDP
in 1979, while the country's resource gap decreased substantially from 14
percent in 1975 to less than 8.5 percent of GDP in 1979. However, with the
sharp drop in uranium prices in late 1980, which heralded a depression in the
uranium market that is expected to last into the latter part of the decade,
uranium revenues declined to less than 10 percent of total budget receipts in
1981. With a per capita GDP of about US$330 in 1980, Niger remains among the
29 least developed countries of the United Nations.
4.        Despite the somewhat brighter outlook offered by uranium, Niger
continues to face a number of formidable natural, economic, and human con-
straints to development which will have to be overcome or alleviated to
ensure self-sustained economic growth in the long-run. First, many Govern-
ment institutions are still in an embryonic state of development. Second,
four fifths of the country is desert or semi-desert and in the rest, which
supports about 80 percent of the population, soil fertility is low and pro-
bably declining. In addition, rainfall is often irregular or inadequate and



the costs of irrigation schemes are unusually high. Third, the country's
land-locked position induces high transport costs and sometimes serious delays
in the delivery of imports. Finally, Niger has a primary school enrollment
rate of only about 17 percent, which is one of the lowest rates in the world
and has led to acute shortages of literate and qualified personnel at all
levels and in many fields in the economy. These problems are now being
compounded by the sharply declining uranium revenues. With an ambitious
investment program predicated on maintenance of the real prices and increasing
production, the five-fold drop in uranium revenues to less than 10 percent of
total budget receipts in 1981 is already being felt in increasing budgetary
stringency.
Economic Growth
5.        Real GDP grew at 3 percent per year during the six-year period
1972-78, while population grew at 2.7 percent. Between 1972 and 1975, real GDP
recorded negative growth, mainly as a result of severe drought-induced setbacks
in agriculture and livestock production, compounded by the resulting recession
in agro-industries. In the subsequent three years (1976-78), the economy
picked up considerably to achieve an annual growth rate of over 9 percent;
however, 1979 and 1980 show some decline, moving to 7.5 percent in 1979 and
6 percent in 1980. This reflects the impact of uranium mining and related
activities such as transport and construction, on the economy. Production of
uranium concentrates increased rapidly from some 400 tons to about 2,000 tons
between 1971 and 1978, while its export prices almost quintupled from US$20/kg
to US$98/kg. However, with prices falling to about US$62/kg in 1981 after
remaining virtually constant in 1978-80, the constraining effects are likely
to limit GDP growth to 4 percent or less. Despite the vicissitudes in the
uranium sector, growth in traditional sectors, in particular agriculture and
agro-industry, has been modest.
Public Finance
6.        Over the last seven years, sound fiscal management, with the help
of rapidly rising revenues from uranium mining, had enabled the Government
to generate substantial current budgetary surplus. This amounted to about
CFAF 9.6 and 16.1 billion in FY76/77 and FY77/78 respectively. Results for
1978/79 show a further improvement to about CFAF 24 billion. These surpluses
permitted rapid growth of capital expenditures in absolute as well as in
relative terms from CFAF 2.6 billion in FY75/76 (about 10 percent of total
budgetary expenditures) to CFAF 13.6 billion in FY77/78 (32 percent) and CFAF
17.6 billion in 1978/79. As a result, the contribution of budgetary savings
to total public investment increased from 10 percent in FY70/71 to more than
28 percent in FY78/79. As a result of the drop in prices, however, the
budgetary savings ratio is likely once again to drop below 10 percent. On the
other hand, the tax base has been undergoing significant changes in recent
years. First, Government revenue relies heavily upon uranium mining, revenues
from which have declined five-fold since 1979/80. Second, in an attempt to
ease the tax burden of low-income groups, a number of measures were introduced:
livestock head taxes were abolished in FY74/75 following the 1973 drought, the



head tax levied on the population aged 14 years and over was completely
abolished in FY77/78, and income taxes on monthly salaries below CFAF 15,000
were eliminated beginning FY77/78. The foregone revenues from those sources
are estimated at about CFAF 4 billion. These fiscal measures reflect Govern-
ment's increasing concern with the problems of social equity and particularly
the fate of the rural poor. However, at a time of considerable budgetary
stringency imposed by the drop in uranium prices, the results in question are
making the Government's overall budgetary situation even more difficult.
7.        The annual rate of inflation averaged 8 percent over the period
1972-75, but rose to over 20 percent in 1976 and 1977. Due to the normal
harvests in 1977/78, inflation as measured by the implicit GDP deflator
levelled off somewhat in 1978 at an annual rate of 12 percent, where it has
remained since. Three major factors contributing to recent inflation include
the supply constraint in basic commodities, especially in food, rising prices
for imported goods, and rapid monetary expansion.
Balance of Payments
8.        In spite of the rapid increase in export earnings from uranium,
Niger's balance of payments continues to be characterized by a trade deficit:
the imports required for operating the economy as well as for new capital
formation including development of new uranium mining still exceed foreign
exchange earnings. This trade deficit was, however, more than compensated
for by the inflow of foreign private and public capital so that the overall
balance of payments showed a substantial surplus until 1978. However, esti-
mates indicate an overall deficit of about US$2.5 million in 1979, the first
in some years. The fall in uranium prices is likely to bring about a con-
siderable reduction in total earnings in 1981 and beyond.
Development Planning
9.        The Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-1983, was only recently pub-
lished and identifies Niger's basic objectives as: (a) the modernization
of agriculture and livestock production; (b) a high rate of economic growth
spurred by investments in mining, industry, transportation and communica-
tions; (c) human resources development; and (d) a gradual reduction of
regional disparities in income. On an annual basis, the public investment
target implies an increase of 220 percent over the 1976-78 Plan. About 30
percent of public investments over the Plan period will be allocated to rural
development, 30 percent to mining, energy and industry, 22 percent to educa-
tion and health, and 18 percent to transportation and communications. The
total investment target of the Plan is US$3.5 billion in 1979 prices with
US$1.8 billion for public investment. Implementation of 1976-78 Plan fell
far short of its targets, largely due to a limited absorptive capacity and
difficulties in project preparation, caused primarily by manpower constraints.
These are likely to continue being a major barrier to the implementation of
the new Plan. In addition, the downward trend in uranium prices can be
expected to set further limitations on plan implementation; 42 percent of
public investments in the Plan are set out for Government financing.



-4-
Foreign Aid
10.       Between 1971 and 1977 Niger's total recorded net in-flow of re-
sources from DAC countries and multilateral agencies averaged about US$80
million annually, of which 95 percent was on concessionary terms. The Euro-
pean Development Fund (FED), France, Germany and Canada remain Niger's major
aid donors, although recently Arab oil-producing countries have increased
their lending programs to Niger. However, in the two year period between
1978 and 1980 external public debt more than doubled, rising from about
US$400 billion to US$855 million at end 1980, although indications are that
the pace of commercial borrowing dropped substantially in 1981. About 25
percent of new commitments originated from private banks and suppliers. Given
the short grace periods and high interest rates now prevailing, debt-servicing
obligations of the government doubled over the previous year in FY1980/81, and
now account for 14 percent of budget revenues.
11.       Total debt outstanding increased by US$332 million to US$885 million
during 1980; only US$355 million of that total had been disbursed by the end
of 1980. Bilateral loans (disbursed and undisbursed), 53 percent of which
were received from France, were only US$290 million of the 1980 total.
Multilateral loans amounted to US$312 billion, US$138.1 million of which
represented IDA credits (16 percent of overall indebtedness). The remainder
US$283 billion, was divided almost equally between suppliers' credits and
banks, and given the heavy interest rates prevailing on these loans, overall
debt service, now only US$21 million, will rise nearly five-fold to US$98.8
million in 1983, which, if uranium prices fail to rise, will exceed 20 percent
of exports as compared with 3.3 percent in 1979.
12.       Perhaps the major issue which Niger faces is how to scale down its
ambitious 1979-83 Plan to expenditure levels which are consistent with the
sharply reduced revenue offtake from the uranium sector. In light of this
situation, the Bank is discussing with the Government the need to tailor its
investment plan to a level consistent with its future resources and debt
service capacity. Whatever the evolution of these discussions, it is abundantly
clear that Niger continues to face substantial physical and human constraints,
particularly with a literacy rate of 8 percent, near the lowest in the world.
Given a resource situation with little promise for the next five to ten years,
the extremely low level of development and the largely unmet basic needs of
the population, Niger will continue to require concessionary, as well as local
cost, financing for some time to come.



- 5 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
13.       Nineteen IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have
so far been approved for Niger totalling US$158.2 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of these credits as of January 31, 1982 and notes on
the execution of on-going projects. Past Bank Group lending was heavily
concentrated on transport, communications and rural development. Of the
seventeen projects approved to date, five aimed at expanding and upgrading the
domestic road network, one provided for improvement and extension of existing
facilities at Niamey international airport, one for the installation of a more
reliable telecommunications system, and one for educational planning. The
Association's lending to date for the rural sector includes eight projects
for drought relief, rural development, forestry, irrigation and livestock.
Disbursement performance is similar to the average for other countries in the
region.
14.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will continue efforts in the rural and transport sectors, but
also increasingly support Government efforts to diversify the economic
structure, expand modern sector employment, and meet manpower requirements.
We will also continue to advise Government on policy issues and options
through our economic and sector work.
15.       In agriculture, Bank Group lending supports Government's generally
sound strategy, namely regional projects aimed at increasing production,
gradual development of the country's irrigation potential, provision of
services to pastoralists, and crop-livestock integration. Due to the severity
of the natural constraints and the present state of technical knowledge,
agricultural and livestock development in Niger will be slow and difficult.
However, experience with ongoing projects has demonstrated that potential
does exist, and can be realized with the provision of appropriate inputs and
extension services. In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assistance
for the construction of a network of secondary and access roads to support
the Government's agricultural program; a feeder roads project approved in FY79
marks a first step towards this objective. We shall also continue our support
for the maintenance of the existing infrastructure. The Bank is evaluating a
technical assistance project which would consist of feasibility studies for
priority projects, followed by the coordination and monitoring of project
activities by line ministries and strengthening Niger's external debt manage-
ment system.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
16.       Some 90 percent of Niger's natural forest cover consists of low
grade savannah, thickets or bush. Only in the south are higher grade sudanian
forests found. Classified forest reserves, parks and controlled forest areas



- 6 -
cover about one million ha or 0.9 percent of the country's total area. Forest
plantations cover some 20,000 ha. Numerous woodlots have been planted by
villagers and local groups, but these are often in poor shape due to lack of
maintenance.
17.       Forestry officially accounts for four percent of GDP; however, its
impact on the economy is much greater. Natural forest savannah and bush
protect the soil from wind erosion, provide tree fodder and a dry weather
grazing reserve for livestock, and a source of fruit, fibre, fuelwood and
building poles to meet the basic needs of the rural population for heating,
cooking and shelter. Fuelwood needs, which account for 90 percent of total
wood consumption, are at present estimated at some 3.9 million cubic meters
per annum--almost double the average annual increment of the exploitable
natural forest cover--and are expected to rise to about 5.5 million cubic
meters by the year 2000. Demand is currently being met by overcutting natural
forest and bush, and in many areas, particularly around Niamey, the forest
cover has been completely cut out. The resulting wind erosion of top soil
and disturbance of the fragile ecological balance have led to development of
desert conditions, declining soil fertility and degradation of large areas of
potential agricultural land.
18.       Hence, reforestation has become critically important.  However,
given the enormous imbalance between supply and demand, this would imply the
establishment of extremely ambitious tree plantations and natural forest
management programs that cannot be achieved under present conditions. Besides,
the technical constraints to forestry development in Niger are formidable with
only a small part of the country reaching the 800 mm rainfall level and with a
lack of productive technical packages adapted to semi-arid conditions. Trials
with rainfed tree plantations have had varied and sometimes disappointing
results and although the possibility of producing wood under irrigation could
play an important role, its economic viability remains to be established. It
is evident, then, that a long-term strategy for forestry development in Niger
will require complementary measures to reforestation. The country will
increasingly have to look to potential wood substitution and to the adoption
of more efficient wood usage systems, e.g. better designed woodburning stoves
or charcoal. It will also have to seek means to encourage the effective
participation of the rural population in forest development. The proposed
project will address all these factors.
19.       Prices.  Despite significant real increases in fuelwood retail
prices, permit prices have not reflected the value of wood to the economy
or the real cost of increasing deforestation. Permit prices for wood sales
(persons wanting to sell wood require a permit from the Forestry Department)
have been fixed at a low level and increases in retail prices have represented
mainly mark up by traders. A clear forestry policy to recuperate some of
these profits has been lacking--given especially the lack of a clear knowledge
of the wood market and cost components involved and no well defined means of
surveillance by the Forestry Department, there is at present little basis to
determine suitable adjustments in the stumpage fee. The project would there-
fore support a two-year study of the wood market and appropriate stumpage
prices. Assurances were obtained from Government that it would (i) fix



- 7 -
acceptable stumpage prices for plantation wood before end-December 1983 and
(ii) review with IDA by that same date the permit fee for natural forest wood
with a view to adjusting these prices to reflect the value of wood to the
economy and to encourage wood conservation (Section 4.04, draft Credit Agree-
ment).
20.       Forestry Institutiors. The Forestry Department is one of four
technical departments of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR). In spite of
recent improvements in staffing, it is still understaffed and has difficulty
in fulfilling its responsibilities given the magnitude of the forestry prob-
lems. There is little planning and inventory control 1/ and management of
field operations is generally weak. The situation is worsened by an inadequate
allocation from the Government budget of funds, materials and operating
supplies and the Department is unable to undertake reforestation or protection
of the existing forest cover on any significant scale. The proposed project
would address these constraints through the provision of technical assistance,
equipment and vehicles, training and operational inputs.
21.       Training.  Forestry training is provided in Niger at the "Institut
Pratique de Developpement Rural" (IPDR) for middle level staff (B and C).
Senior forestry officers have up to now been trained abroad but in the future
they will be trained at the "Ecole Superieure d'Agronomie" (ESA) in Niamey.
There is no formal training for lower staff (Level D), who are supposed to
learn on the job, though these are the actual executing agents. Forestry
education curricula need to be improved by putting more emphasis on reforesta-
tion and natural forest management. Junior level staff need training on
forestry techniques, and field staff need refresher courses on reforestation
and natural forest management. The proposed project would make appropriate
provision for such training.
22.       Research.  Forestry research is part of the activities of the
"Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger" (INRAN) which reports
to the Ministry for Research. It has a major research program aimed at
improving forestry packages but has recently had difficulties following its
program since the departure of the chief researcher for medical reasons. The
project, through provision of a new chief researcher co-financed by FAC, would
reactivate the division.
23.       Government Objectives and Strategy in the Sector.  Since the drought
(1972-74), increasing attention has been given to the role of forestry in
economic development leading to a redefinition of forestry development pro-
grams. These programs have three main objectives: (i) to protect the remain-
ing natural forest cover from over-exploitation, encroachment, over-grazing
and bush fires; (ii) to develop a sustained supply of fuelwood, building
poles, fruit, fodder, gum and minor forest products through efficient manage-
ment of the natural forest cover and establishment of tree plantations; and
(iii) to promote better uses of wood and use of substitutes. The main means
1/   A USAID-financed forestry and land use planning project, recently started,
is going to take an inventory of existing forests and would establish
an inventory control within the Forestry Department.



-8-
to achieve these objectives are to: build up forestry institutions through
training, research, studies and provision of operating means; establish
fast-growing tree plantations and improve management of natural forests;
encourage the participation of the rural population in reafforestation; and
support research into methods of improving forestry technical packages and
efficient wood uses.
24.       Woodstoves.  To reduce firewood demand, Niger has been encouraging
the introduction of improved woodstoves. This is being done through projects
financed mainly by bilateral sources and non governmental organizations.
Several improved woodstove projects are also in the preparation or planning
stages and are expected to begin in the next few years. Thus, there is no
lack of organizations or experts anxious to promote woodstoves in Niger, but
the danger to avoid is the promotion of inappropriate and unproven stove
models as well as stoves not acceptable to the population. The project would
therefore not be involved in woodstove diffusion but would conduct a critical
analysis of existing and forthcoming woodstove programs with a view to seeking
out efficient woodstoves.
25.       Rural Participation in Forestry Programs.  Several rural forestry
programs began in Niger in the early 1970s. Most of these were financed from
external sources; they did not foresee any substantial participation of the
rural population and hence did not have the support of villagers. They were
conceived as village woodlots where in most cases the land was purchased from
farmers and plantation works done by either project staff or by the forestry
services with hired labor. Subsequent socio-economic studies and the efforts
of the IDA-financed Pilot Forestry and Technical Assistance Project (Credit
800-NIR) in establishing rural nurseries indicate that farmers are interested
in tree growing, but that family and individual woodlots offer more tangible
incentives for participation than village woodlots and should be pursued
through a vigorous forestry extension effort. This impression is reinforced
by the experience under the Maradi Rural Development Project (Cr. 608-NIR)
where the rural forestry program ran into a number of difficulties due to:
(i) farmer reluctance to establish communal tree plantations; (ii) problems
relating to land/labor competition between farming and tree planting; (iii)
problems of protecting trees from browsing animals; and (iv) the low priority
given to such activities both by the extension services and by farmers. The
proposed project will address these issues (para. 28(a)).
26.       Bank's Role in Forestry.  The Bank group has financed forestry
activities under three earlier credits: First, the Drought Relief Fund
Project (Credit 441-NIR) provided financing for the improvement of gum arabic
stands in the Manga area (Goure, Maine and Diffa). This was a successful
operation that helped to stabilize and increase the incomes of some 5,000
people badly affected by drought. A total of 6,250 ha of natural gum arabic
stands were protected and harvested (see PPAR of July 2, 1979). Second, the
Maradi Rural Development Project (Cr. 608-NIR) provided financing for the
establishment and maintenance of rural woodlots. The OED audit report has not
yet been issued for this project. Third, the Pilot Forestry and Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 800-NIR), for which the proposed project provides
follow-up, aimed at strengthening the Forestry Department and establishing on
a pilot basis irrigated and rainfed tree plantations. The rainfed plantations



have remained in good shape and progress has in general followed expectations.
There has, however, been difficulty in finding good soils on which to plant,
and the proposed project would emphasize site selection. Problems have been
encountered in the implementation of the irrigation component of the project.
Investment costs per ha have been in line with appraisal estimates, but
operating and recurrent costs appear much higher than anticipated. There have
been delays in receiving equipment and hence in connecting the pumping system
to the irrigation network; parts of the area have therefore not been effec-
tively irrigated and will require replanting. The implementation of this
component has shown the economic and technical difficulties associated with
the full scale irrigation system and will require close monitoring for the
next few years to assess what modifications are necessary in future such
irrigation schemes. In the context of the proposed project therefore, only
small irrigated plantation lots would be established along the boundaries and
on non-agricultural soils of existing agricultural irrigation schemes. This
will have the effect of reducing investment and operating costs and the trees
would utilize water that would otherwise have been lost through drainage or
percolation, while protecting the irrigated perimeters from sandstorms and
excessive evapotranspiration. The completion report for this project will be
issued shortly upon return of a mission presently in the field.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
27.       The project is the second phase of the Pilot and Technical Assis-
tance Forestry Project. To permit an uninterrupted transition between the
first and second projects, a US$360,000 advance was extended through the
Project Preparation Facility in January, 1982 to finance some forestry
works and operating expenses. The project was appraised in May/June 1981.
Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington in February, 1982
with a Nigerien delegation led by the Minister of Plan. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Second Forestry Project" (No. 3632-NIR) is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is
at Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
28.       The project would build on the momentum gained in the pilot pro-
ject to improve supplies of fuelwood and building poles, tree fodder and
other minor forest products. This would be done through an expanded rural
forestry program, establishment of state-managed tree plantations for wood and
gum-arabic production, natural forest management and protection of existing
forests and plantations from forest fires. The project includes the following
components:
(a) Rural Tree Plantations. The project would assist the rural popula-
tion in establishing mini-nurseries for rural tree plantations on a
family/individual basis. To assist farmers in tree establishment
and maintenance, the project would train and equip forestry field



- 10 -
agents and provide farmers with seeds, plastic bags and nursery
supplies. In addition to the normal support of the forestry dis-
tricts given to such types of activities, a forestry counsellor at
headquarters as well as three regional forestry controllers would
supervise and support the agents. Advice would be given to farmers
on: planting and maintenance procedures; the problems posed by
deforestation; the interrelationships between agriculture, forestry
and livestock; and the potential benefits of afforestation. All
these services and inputs (except for plastic bags) would be pro-
vided free of charge to the farmers.  Assurances were    obtained
at negotiations that farmers would pay for the plastic bags at a
price which is not higher than their cost to the borrower (Section
3.06, draft Credit Agreement). Given the importance of the rural
forestry component in terms of future replicability, and some
uncertainty about the immediate responsiveness of all farmers, the
project would undertake a comprehensive field reconnaissance survey
in the first year to select the sites of the first mini-nurseries.
The project would also undertake an ongoing evaluation of farmers-
responses to the family woodlot approach to be able to early on
identify and alleviate constraints that may develop. To reserve
enough flexibility, a mid-term review would also be undertaken and
the size of the component would be increased if initial response
warranted it.
(b) Rainfed Tree Plantations. The project would continue to maintain
760 ha state-managed of rainfed tree plantations set up under
Cr. 800-NIR and would establish an additional 1,500 ha through the
project unit. The plantation sites would be carefully selected on
the basis of preliminary soil surveys. It would also establish
750 ha of gum arabic plantations, likewise through the project unit,
and would protect 6,000 ha of natural gum arabic stands against
bushfires.
(c) Irrigated Tree Plantations. The project would continue to maintain
240 ha of state-managed irrigated tree plantations established under
Cr. 800-NIR. It would also assist farmers working on irrigated
perimeters to establish 200 ha of tree plantations in areas un-
suitable for crop cultivation. Sites would be selected in con-
sultation with the national irrigation authority Office National
des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles (ONAHA) and agreement on the
respective responsibilities of ONAHA and the Project would be a
condition of disbursement of the component (Section 3.08 and
Schedule 1, para. 3(b), draft Credit Agreement). It is intended
that part of the operating costs for the irrigated perimeters would
be recovered on an experimental basis from wood sales and assurances
would be sought for the establishment of a mechanism to collect such
fees by end-December 1983 (Section 4.03, draft Credit Agreement).
(d) Training. The project would establish and operate a small training
center in Naimey to provide courses in reforestation for field
forestry staff, especially at lower levels. Annual curricula would
be agreed on with IDA (Section 3.07, draft Credit Agreement).



- 11 -
(e) Research. Given the need to develop technical packages suitable for
arid and semi-arid zones, the project would provide support for the
forestry research division of INRAN -- a chief researcher (to be
financed by FAC), vehicles, equipment and operating means to ini-
tiate a research program appropriate to project needs and the
long-term requirements of the forestry section. Assurances were
sought at negotiations that INRAN and the Project Unit w(:.ld enter
into an agreement by December 31, 1982 on the research program.
(Section 3.08(b), draft Credit Agreement).
(f) Watershed Management/Erosion Control. Implementation of a pilot
erosion control program in a selected watershed.
(g) Management of Natural Forest. Management on a pilot basis of
6,000 ha of natural forests.
(h)  Bushfire Control.  Implementation and management of a pilot
bushfire control program.
(i) Project Unit. The project unit, established under the pilot pro-
ject, would be strengthened to undertake the expanded responsibili-
ties involved in the second phase project. In addition to the
project manager, the unit would now include five expatriate
technical specialists and seven senior level Nigerien forestry
officers. A researcher, a financial and administration specialist
and a workshop manager would be added to the rural engineer and
technical advisor. The project would also provide office accom-
modation, vehicles, equipment and furniture and would include
accounting and audit services, consultants for studies, office and
other operating facilities and staff travel.
(j) Planning and Monitoring. The project would provide support to the
planning, monitoring and economic studies unit within the Project
Unit for technical and economic monitoring of the activities of the
first and the proposed project and for studies: (i) organization
of wood marketing, (ii) optimal price structure for wood from plan-
tations and natural forests, (iii) recurrent cost financing of for-
estry projects, (iv) critical socio-economic and thermal efficiency
analysis of existing woodstoves programs, (v) possible substitutes
for fuelwood, and (vi) reconnaissance surveys on rural forestry and
watershed management. The terms of reference for these studies
would be agreed upon during negotiations. The unit would be headed
by a Nigerien forester assisted by the internationally-recruited
forestry technical adviser to the project manager.
Project Costs and Financing
29.       The cost of the project (net of identifiable taxes and duties,
from which the project would be exempt) is estimated at US$16.8 million
equivalent. Total costs include physical contingencies equal to 10 percent
of estimated costs for civil works, equipment, inputs, seasonal labor and
operating costs. The allowance for expected price increase over the five



- 12 -
years of the project is about 37 prcent of base costs plus physical con-
tingencies. This was obtained by compounding foreign price increases at
4.5 percent for second half of 1981, 8.5 percent for 1982, 7.5 percent for
1983-85 and 6 percent for 1986, expatriate staff costs at 10 percent for
1981 and 9 percent thereafter, and local price increases at 13 percent for
1981 and 10 percent/year for 1982-86. US$7.9 million (about 47 percent)
are foreign exchange costs. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 8.8 million
(US$10.1 million) would finance 60 percent of total project costs, including
US$4.9 million of foreign exchange costs and US$5.2 million of local costs.
It would include financing of salaries for rural forestry field agents on a
declining basis, as Government increases its contribution (see para. 35).
The Government's participation of US$1.5 million would cover 9 percent of
total project costs. CCCE/FAC participation of US$5.2 million would
finance 31 percent of total costs. Project costs and proposed financing
plan are summarized in the Credit and Project summary. As indicated in
Part I, current economic circumstances--in particular the sharp and un-
expected drop in uranium revenues--justify the financing of local costs.
30.       Meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CCCE credit and to the FAC grant, and agreement with FAC for appointment
of the Technical Advisor would be conditions of effectiveness (Section
6.01 of draft Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
31.       The Project Unit would be responsible for planning, implementing and
monitoring all project activities, and providing support and guidance to the
forestry districts involved in implementation. The Unit would prepare an
annual work program and budget which would be submitted before the beginning
of each financial year to IDA for comments (Section 3.05, draft Credit Agree-
ment). A work program for the first year has already been agreed with IDA.
The organization and management of the plantations within the irrigated
agricultural perimeters and of research would be done by the Unit in coopera-
tion with ONAHA and INRAN respectively. The planning, monitoring and economic
studies unit in the Project Unit would monitor and evaluate project perfor-
mance. This would include a critical cost-benefit analysis of the irrigated
and rain-fed tree plantation components of the first project, an ongoing
evaluation of farmers' responses to the rural forestry component and recom-
mendations for improving implementation of the component, if constraints
develop. The unit would also coordinate closely with the forestry researchers
at INRAN to define a technical monitoring program for all project activities.
The unit would provide IDA with a detailed evaluation report on project
progress each six months. This would form part of the half yearly report to
be submitted by the Project Unit to IDA. The unit would prepare a project
completion report within six months of the completion of the project (Section
3.09(d), draft Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
32.       To implement the project, five expatriate experts would be employed
at an estimated cost of US$8,500 per man-month. A total of 23 man-months of



- 13 -
consultant services at an average cost of US$12,000 per man-month would be
financed by the project to help the unit undertake various studies and audit.
The estimated costs include salaries, allowances and overhead.
Working Fund
33.       To ensure that plantation works are carried out immediately when
needed, initial working funds of US$400,000 to prefinance operating expendi-
tures would be provided as follows: IDA (US$300,000) representing its share of
estimated quarterly contribution to operating expenditures, and Government
(US$37,000) representing its share of estimated quarterly contribution to
operating expenditures. CCCE has indicated a willingness also to contribute
to the working funds once its participation is confirmed. The IDA funds would
be deposited in a Special Account established for that purpose; the Government
contribution would be deposited in a Project Account. The establishment of
the accounts as well as Government's payment of its initial deposit in the
Project Account would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a),
draft Credit Agreement). Assurances were sought at negotiations that the
Project Account would be replenished at least quarterly on the basis of
supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and cash forecasts made by
project management in order to have sufficient funds to meet project expendi-
tures for the following quarter. IDA would replenish the Special Account
upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the Special Account for allow-
able expenses. Should any disbursements be made from the Special Account that
are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding
amount into the Special Account. Assurance to this effect were obtained
at negotiations (Section 2.02(f), draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement
34.       Field forestry works (a total of US$5.4 million of which US$3.8
million to be financed by IDA) are customarily executed by Forestry Depart-
ments (force account), represent their major operational function, and
would be done by the project unit. From experience, because of their
location and small size, contracts for civil works, houses,. offices and
workshops (a total of US$1.0 million of which US$0.7 million to be financed
by IDA), would not be attractive to international contractors and would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally. Procure-
ment of machinery, vehicles and equipment would be grouped in packages of
over US$100,000 where possible and would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Contracts for domestically manufactured goods which amount to less than
US$100,000 but for more than US$25,000 would be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding procedures advertised locally and contracts for less
than US$25,000 would be procured by direct shopping on the basis of at
least three quotations.
Disbursement
35.       The Credit of US$10.1 million would be disbursed over five years as
follows:



- 14 -
(a) civil works: 70 percent of total expenditures (US$0.7 million);
(b) field forestry works including inputs, operating costs, seasonal
and permanent labor: 70 percent of total expenditures (US$3.0
million);
(c) machinery and equipment (excluding those financed by CCCE--dumper
trucks and tractors): 100 percent of costs (US$1.9 million);
(d) expatriates and consulting services (excluding those paid by
FAC): 100 percent of costs (US$1.0 million);
(e) project operating costs: 63 percent of total expenditures
(US$1.4 million);
(f) rural forestry field agents salaries: 100 percent of costs during
first two years, 55 percent the third year, 25 percent the fourth
year, 0.0 percent the fifth year (US$.3 million); and
(g) Special Account: (US$0.4 million).
In addition, the PPF advance of US$0.4 million would be refunded upon effec-
tiveness of the Credit and US$1.0 million would remain unallocated. Disburse-
ments would be fully documented except for categories (b) and (e) abov3.
These involve small purchases and disbursements would be against statements of
expenditures, which wculd be audited.
Accounts and Audits
36.       The accounts of the first project were satisfactorily kept with the
help of ONAHA's accountant and by a junior accountant employed by the project.
The size of the second project, however, requires the services of a full time
accountant who would be appointed under the project. All Project accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited
financial statements and reports would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of each financial year (Section 4.02, draft Credit Agreement).
Financial and Economic Analysis
37.       At full development, total annual wood production under the project
would be 39,000 m3 (excluding an annual wood production of about 11,000 m
from the plantations of the first project), less than 9 percent of current
urban fuelwood demand. No marketing problems are therefore expected for
marketable project output (including production from the first project).
The demand for fuelwood in the rural areas remains high and all the wood
produced in the rural forestry component is expected to be absorbed by the
sector. Given the shortages of building poles, poles from the project should
find a ready market.



- 15 -
38.       The project would generate sufficient Government funds to finance
continuing project activities after the 5 year implementation period. After
being negative during the first two years, the cumulative cash flow after
debt service for both IDA and CCCE credits (including debt service for the
pilot project) would turn positive from year 3. The cash flow is calculated
by including the costs of maintaining and receipts from the state-managed
rainfed and irrigated tree plantations of the first project.
39.       Economic rates of return have been (,tlculated only f.,r the directly
productive components (44 percent of project costs), where benefits can be
quantified with a reasonable degree of certainty, with berefits courited as
fuelwood, poles and gum arabic.  The economic rates of retura  are as follows
(share of project costs in parentheses): tree plantations in irrigated
perimeters - 35 percent (6 percent); rainfed tree plantations   10.1 percent
(17 percent); rural tree plantations - 13.9 percent (12 percent); gum arabic
plantations - 10.9 percent (9 percent). The weighted average economic rate
of return has been estimated at 13.9 percent. The economic analysis did not
quantify other direct benefits that would accrue from the project. These
include the beneficial effects that trees, planted as windbreaks, can have on
output and the fact that planting trees for fuelwood and fodder avoids cutting
already existing ones. Over the five-year implementation period the project
is also expected to generate about 1,500 man-years of direct employment for
unskilled labor.
Benefits and Risks
40.       The project would continue the institution building process started
under the first project. This would enable the Forestry Department to plan,
implement and monitor its work more effectively. It would help the Government
map out an effective pricing and permit policy for firewood and seek feasible
alternatives to present firewood use to limit future over-exploitation of
forestry resources. The project would improve the knowledge about the respon-
siveness of rural populations to large scale afforestation schemes, and expose
them to tree planting as an important part of their agro-sylvicultural system.
The project would also provide valuable knowledge about the effectiveness and
costs and benefits of irrigated tree plantations in Niger in particular and
in the Sahel in general, given the lack of suitable technical packages for
reforestation in Sahelian countries. The project would help test new forestry
production and management techniques through the applied research and natural
forest management components and therefore help improve forestry technical
packages available to the country.
41.       Given the limited knowledge about reforestation in Sahelian countries,
the harsh climate, and the newness of large scale tree plantations in Niger,
the project necessarily involves risk. However, project design and assump-
tions on yields have been made so as to minimize this. Although the Niger
small farmer environment seems to be quite receptive to reforestation, there
is a risk that the rural population would be unwilling to participate in the
operation. Therefore, particular attention will be paid to incentives and
sociological aspects in this component. Other components face only minor
risks in terms of reduced benefits or increased costs. Yield expectations are



- 16 -
based on best estimates, though given the newness of forestry operations in
the country, the lowest known yields under similar project conditions have
been used and cost estimates are based on actual costs of past planting. The
project also includes an ongoing evaluation to identify and correct at an
early stage constraints that may develop.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
42.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Niger and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
43.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be that: (i) the Technical
Advisor financed by FAC has been employed; (ii) all conditions precedent to
the effectiveness of the CCCE Credit and the FAC grant have been met; and
(iii) a Special Account and Project Account have been opened and the Govern-
ment's initial deposit of US$74,000 equivalent representing its estimated
quarterly contribution to project costs has been made to the Project Account.
44.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
45.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 17, 1982



- 17 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 Of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGER                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WFICHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND Sq  EM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1261.0                                      MOST RECENT            LoW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      124.1                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      110.0       140.0      270.0                 238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            5.5        25.4       48.4                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THIOUSANDS)     2875.8       4008.0    5163.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       5.8         8.4       12.0                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             9.7
STATIQNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                             2.3         3.2        4.1                  27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         22.6         32.0       40.4                  73:7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             44.8         46.3       46.8                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             52.6         51.1       50.7                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        2.6         2.6        2.5                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.3         3.3        2.8                   2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                   4.1         7.0        6.8                   6.5                     5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          51.8        50.7       51.5                  46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          26.5        23.7       21.7                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.5         3.5        3.5                   3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             112.0         96.0       89.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       90.0         89.0       91.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              59.0         57.0      64.0                   52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           18.0         19.0       27.0                  17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          41.0        34.7       31.3                  27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2        40.6       43.0                  45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              2D0.0           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         20.0       27.0                  23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                   ..         37.0       38.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                   ..         19.0       26.0                  18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCEETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          1.0        7.0                  26.2
URBAN                                    ..        10.0       36.0                  63.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..        3.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             82165.3      58087.0   42719.3                31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         8451.0/c    7019.3    6267.5                  3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                               1954.0       2220.5    1391.4                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                                    ..       358.6     407.2                  272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                   ..       4230.4    1958.2                 1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              10.4/d      34.7/e
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                    .
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGER                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
HOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOOTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 5.0        14.0      23.0                  56.4                   73.7
MALE                  7.0        18.0      29.0                  70.7                   96.8
FEMALE                3.0         9.0      17.0                  50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 0.3         1.0       3.0                  10.0                   16.2
MALE                  0.5         2.0       4.0                  13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                0.1         1.0       2.0                  6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)  4.0          3.0       2.0                   8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0/c      39.0      41.0                  46.5                   36.2
SECONDARY                         17.0        20.0      23.0                  25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        1.4          ..       8.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.3         1.4       2.1                   2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.3        36.2        ..                  32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
PUPULATION                          ..          ..       0.1                   1.9                    3.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.3         0.5       0.6                   2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         0.2        ..                   1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      945.9      1276.1    1610.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   9.0         9.7      10.0                  34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             95.2        93.0      91.2                  80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 1.4         2.0       2.9                  8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.9        31.8      31.2                  41.7                   37.2
MALE                                60.2        58.1      56.7                  54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                               5.9         6.1       6.2                  29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.5       1.6                   1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY. INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     133.0                 136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      63.0                 84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (USD PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     133.0                  99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      53.0                  61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      35.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1964;  /e 1966.
May, 1981



-19 -                                                                 ANNE 1
Pa-e o f 5
OtFiblITIOgS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Ots Although ic  dsar  dret 10 ro  souce  geeal-ugdte-                      nbretlead reliable, it should also be -te  that they ey not ha laer
naIonall  copral  beeeeo  helc  ofsened Ia defititlon   and concpt  need by differen.t c-nties In  eletn   the du.U.Thdaere   n-
chelese, uefulod _aribe  reso _          anhts,inict  treds, an   huai -ic  etin  ujor diff-rece  betee   outrn
The  eeec  gops_so  Ci) the esnco           -rygop of the subject country cad(2  a  oar   ru   Okssna   ihravrgVrcete   h   nae   re
coctocoltual efititss).In the ref--to  Stup date the  vrge r  popalation weighted arithtto  -ee  ten each iedicet-  sa   heselys
eajorit  of th  counties ita groa  ha  dat  for t%hattnort   . Since the co-rsg   f oetrise amon  the indicaor.         ep..    nh    avalhliy  of   t
and  e to  unfore  cauiongnathennrcied i  reltin I vrgnI      foetnteo  to a-oh-r   meanan-rgre are only ...efn1 ttceai                n  the valu  ef
on  idIneto  acclT       usn tiI--   he  -ontry and referneg-  ne
LAIfE hREA (choo..und eqik..)                                                                   'pvaonrrHsial hd - total. nrber endintl Pplto    ntl
Tota  - T-tu1  -af-r  urea c     c Inglad as  atd  lad enter.                                  aro,sdrr i ivde  by rhler r-eperi- nter at heaitl hds
Aatuiol-Ttimte of egriruliua  ae   ee apor-rily or perenatly                             -1tailuh    in rblic and privat  genra  an.d aperia1iud heaittal sad r-
forcops  p             -trs,su t eod kitchen garden  o  t  lie fallow; 19i data.             huhilitati-n cener.  Inpcsat. satebiteheam     paestly atAffad
by at leat oePhyalta.-   raE-bhil .ent  p-eidtng Pn1i"rpaly ra
imp Pta CAPIT  Col     il         nPits est IIates at --ret  -akb- prices, cal-                  dial casaent incladd.  tRe ..             ptea Ihoweer  lmisde b.it
Iulatadbyse  c               -vrno   ehd an Wrld Honk Atlue (1977-79 heels) ; 1960,            en      ioirntr   e  pbeastystfe   hoA physL.Ita  (hen hy a
17,ed170 dte,                                                                            medical.. aei-tao   nure,Pidwt.er          rhlch aff- im-Putise   sat
dagia end P-id.A   a limIted  saef eadinal f-ciltag*-   Per aneti'-
EWEtb.c iCoSenorT'Io  Pit CAPIlA - Annua  c-naptiot of ccece.l soary (coal                       tana  rerpvae  amen hepituls tealu.e vme  pnartpa/gainellb nae
end lignita. parrlu, natra  P.s an  hydr--. nuclea  andgethrml  s-                             and reral hesPttl.14 le_a  en nae  hepitala  -ad aeirl -d   t-ftty
ctronlly) cc kilog-e  of coal eqn..     t  Par capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                   canen,. PIpeleltedhpries inclodd naly aMer ntal.
dare.                                                                                        Amnlg   a Lental ledS   - lna  en  of adeleinne to endtsoerg
ftru hospitals gidad by the ncar, nf bade.
yOrVL,TIon MDot 'CtAL, oyniut-
TrialP1  natonKid-Year (thousands) -Aof Jo1y 1; 1960, 1970, ond 1979                       wuitJ
U~irhen  Pouaio  (rerc.rt of toa)-titl  of -brion  to . dIa  ppuletiet;                        A heIaINIheld .inmatn  Of a~ grey efIndivideals nb  soe  llle  gag
ditfeent dfInitons  f orb_a  onsy affect coa prabiIity of data                         aa  their welt seal.  A hoarde - orldge  -y  or may ear h  genled h
eeonoc.u.tctne; 09th, 1970, an  1919 data,                                                   the honehoid foI    ttitIa   parIse
Pvrlation, yrjetloe                                                                          Aveaatg    frroeerrn     ne.aia   drri-ecg 
poenlatlrn I  year 2000 -Corrart popuetlot prolecione ate hosd on 1950      herat   reen  ar ee  in allahn  sdrnlcoLed ae tl-sl
rocal population by INe and sea und thei.    nrgittn  fertiiity  rae.delig,    prtvl..elig                                            .eld  aa..   ae   stenese
1_ng li;1 n Itacaly ahItchinresig th            cunry-pe  cp...ntn                        ccsit  PetrcLO(Wrot ofIeeie Pa  - ee.ahs.a    ne
lee,adfeele life enypoct-y  tbca     !btinn    t7.  yas   Th. para-                  Con   1tea   wlingt wi   mlnrntyi  tig  aiters eN pns
eaters for fertility  rate .1c have three levlsesat  decline In                            of total, urban, andrradsltgreptvly
fertility Iacc.nding tc Locoe leve  and Past fomily pAnaing perfnrst..
tach no-icy is than aeindoeo  teenn   oetnitos of  eatDUC tttATIO
Stationer norulatlon - n     tatoaypoplato  thorn Ie an gr-vh sInc                           Pmr arol-teaa.sl   MtaeAesttl,sl                                  ef
the kinkh rats ieequa  totreth rate, and .als  the uge  tr-onr  on-seoleet of all ages at the pri-ny leve  en Psre.-um   adespn
nira constant.  TIs Isaninved only after fgrtility ratn  deolin  to                    primay  noo-uepepelenioms;  nrly hoindee edidese Nd 4-lI
nhe trolaman  1-vr  of vot  et ,rpndeaton vans, rde  each genartin                            er   enajee  far differe  leagth  at P11eey    ean.:te
ofsoen  cerlaca. islt.I  enrtly   The sttonr  ppti          tn alas- a                      nenerhasII. h anreen  adenaienerua -               yU II ea.d be par-n
sI Iscd or tie basis of the projectd  cIatrtrc    f theFnnltln                               sine s    pnplis ar  helen or shav  the efffLal enn  "P.
in the yaar 2000,. ad the rate of dacinn o-f fnrttlityra.ts-tr.plana-                      S...""ue  ethel - total mal sad hle  - Cqatad asb~ 55....eM.a.
ma-  mI...                                                                                   educatio  ruieat lest fea  yer  of arrea  pniey_                  iea
Yea sitm-or  Pcrulotlon Ia t-ohad - The yea.         hy.    oi.  oypplttnpela  geneval vocatinal,Io teache  ntlging nenetnitss toe pWi
a-ne h.e  -er -eid.                                                                           enllyof 12 to 17Year  of ega; -o-sposacsnnrm   grgenraly
Per en. h. - hid-yrsr populatict Per square kiltts  (100 heotatas) of                        On..tattesl enrele_t (eartet nf anedre   _Oitise_lim uti
total er_o; 1960;, 1~9710 arId1979 data.                                                     L-tlde  iehta,Odueri.l, en nthen prepa  ktbn     we   edp
Pr e. i   arcu_ua  lad-Creputed  e above for sgiulalln                                      early orn  dyutae-t  of seredaryiitnaa
torulatot AteOtracrue (rerent) -Childre  (0-14 year),  -erin-gs. (15-                  prim-r  an -sneduy levels divided by                Ifr  a -bt raen   he th
64 yer),ed -atrd(6  yrsAnd ove) As parcet.agg  of tdd-y-u  PaIN-                               rrepet    ees
lein  1967, 1970~.-nd 1979 data.                                                          Aet ltrn  raet.         pet  - Literat  edema (WAb. ase            AS  ghom
Populatnot Ir_nh hat  Cr-cen) - total  - dcAl1 ecteh rates  ct.tot1id-                           AssI PAr- ecag  of irnnl adam  papa,itIo  ass ii year  Meevr
y-s  popu.i.c.on  f no 1950-h0. 1960-70. sad1970-y9.
Prstnitr-th atn Cpnr-etl - urban- Anel growh rate  of -nben too-                     CWmSWWTI
1-i.ns tot 1950-60, 1960-70, etd 1970-79.                                                  Pasene  Cars ( fotnheueed noenltta)-Pemgrtasnigswe
Crude nirtchat  (tea thoused)   --1a live bitrt   Per rhoasn..d of sid-yn-                     orsurelaetneight peron; eniades   b1e.hsre  M
poplain;  9k.,17, 197        197  dta                                                        mlitr  vahbIri
C-da Death hats (tar thonsnd)9-Anneal deaths oar thousands If eld-,eur                       Radio ge-iv-re(... th Isd enrlAt IN) - All no,nee of earirw   far rsdh
p  Iplatrn  196.0. 1970, and 1979 data.                                                  brosdtan~,ts nlgearl probl1n par thnneaed of gpeValata; al.dss
her n..-I capr-ductive petiod if sh. anpariac-  Preen.a t  gn-spncttir fa-                   etens. tE nfnt; dat tnt rae-t yer  sey one heaqaalMr
dilty rates  ualy tIre-yea   avagn  endin  in 1960, 1970,. sd 1979.                          eatcere   hliehe  Iirseelg.
Ps-nv Plnoi   - Acpoa cul(thousads)    dana  ni-her cf n..ara...                             SfTVcnr  (net t--need  -anlAtiem   - TVreavs ten b-rAsda   t
of birth-control device  ender tasPings of neional fatly pI.ian g po.gr-.                    genralprtlic per thensed pegelutno; enledee wIlead. STVetir
PsiyPntn-ar  (I   ra        " f  ane   omn  - P..eneg o.   f earind                   n inetis -ad in penr eham rIitar               f TV est  -a  . sff-tr
women  f chil-hesrtg gee(115-64 y_er)  fouebirth-cotrLd-vi... to                    Wmven    Crala..ltLom Iea tinseesed hnewl.ti-  - ~Se.  the ninreg  v-i
almrIed oca  In ede .g group.                                                           raaIosf "daily ge`sra  int-re   ..appa   dfttad IaWapeadttel
pahlloation devte  preily ternndeggaee    s.It in. asiw
FOOD AcD NtfrRITIOt                                                                              to he "daily" .if in appears st least fear tles  A
i.don of Pon  Prductio  ne   aia196-1i   ldAu of p-r capita anua                             Cmi-.eni A..1tisdmea  eat Ca-its ear tu     - Reed a  the  .i- at
productionof all foo  coesodit "S.  roucio  eldes esad sad feed and                 trban   sol-d during nh  year, imIolang adalaitm  tn drive-in eie
is  r clenarYear boeta_ Coand itl,e  ove  tIIay goods (e.g. enatsed  ehiln name..
ir  ae  nlod`d).  Aggregec  prod-ction  f eah cn...ttr  is base  In                 14161 FORM
nat-ioa  averge Producer pricneaigtst; 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 data.                       Tate.1 inhee farce (thoeees      rntecal  soatt  P -vne  amaledge
Far caite surir ufcolorie (reteat ofranuirE_ns   Coepotef fine                    aree  foroen and al edht en dladag                      -nniva   tdeAt, ent.
enetg  eqoialan  of nc fod suplies  valible i ototry Pet iotln                  coverin  Popalsea at all ages.  brfinntta  in verten  r-otear
Par day.  a-ilable eupplins coprise d-istt  Pro.`duccrn  tport  lees                       net c.nr-bin; 1960, 197  and 1979 dato.
,,Pore, en  ca,   e  insok.nt ppl-e   nld   nia   ed   gd,                               Pi   tent(-Pi   ea   oc   aprtg   ef tnto  LI&ne tart.
q     ..ine   usd In f nod Proce...iag, anld loea  inderhto.hqair-                 Meinalt.r..eoar   Lee  tarts. in fereie. tn....trP, bettg sad
sente  arn estnetedby PAO base. e  ph,slirga  inda for n.reI ecti-                    flahIng Ae percentage of ctal lahr tarts; 1940, 1970 ad  1i79 data,
vity go   taih conideritgectccoilteepertutr  body nihs-g nusr  ete                                            - Lhor forc  in siin.   oetrL"n.            ftrr
and  ed-n  b.itthulo o~f5p popultion, and allowIng 10 percen  fr  assIt                    ned            -eirnc,  ne  end gas .a pettg MPf .tota  lahr fa..ts; 1960,
hnand leve; 1911-5  197, and! 197) date.                                               19y04sa  19179 daa
oa  sp ly offon  perday.Net enpIYy of food Is defined as shove.  L.-                 atvy  geapo ntdaeralmAle   n   aelhrtesa
qot1 ats tot all coutries etabliahad by USDtA provide for sines                            poroentage  oftt,sl  and fe-lt poprlatif of all a-m respeatively
allowerce ci 60 grana rf tota~~~~~~lprtean par day end  0 e-s  of auteal and       1960  1970. and 1979 dAte.  These en  heAd en ILD'a Pertiolatite ratw
pulseprucOn,  f whih 10eras  etoud be erte     P,  I---at   Ths:sod                 rfecinng-nnsrntr   f nbhppoeten   M   lame tea  -rd.  A
arde arJlwatt ththos  ot75 gra-n If nta.  prooi  and 23 scan  of                           fs- satntA.e are tru  etinaLsvrea
aimul protin  s  nI    vtaefor the  -td,P-oPt...d by FAO in the Third                  tinat batenIdeny   tnlo - latin ef popeitiom    ean 1i and 65 ed ee
dotd Pond Survey;'1961-65, 197  trd 17   aa                                                ttettlihrfr
Per" tt  orteo  uat  fo  anima end raie   Protei  auppy tf food de-
tiedfom  tmas  ndpuss n  tL.      o  day; i9tl-h5, 1970 nod 1t77 data.         Irie  odnhtru
Child (,nat  1-41 a -calt lanee  thoneand) - Aoona  dentha Par rhoun  in                     Pnrc1aTseart Pint   nts(akt   nhad  id      aevdh   ih
agegrop  -4 years, in  biide   an this agn gio; for mat de...lcpi.tgio-                       Percent.rNhest 00  nrn, P.art 2f parost. end peast 40 pain
tiedaca derived from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dMr.                                of honsh.1ds.
HEnALTH                                                                                      Faten TAlenT GYk5P
Life toretisno  at limbh (tears   -Avng  ti-hat of yu- of lif.tnrining                       The ft11ienfn  stiatas ar very appr-amte seaean  of pevery level,
enbrh  ih., 1970 end 1979 date.                                                         end shold be  nter=rtsd with or=edere la tntlen
infant tnrtalitp hate (on  t=ood  - A-nol deaths of inftent  .ndtc e   yar                   ftiegd Abeluta PvtvInteI  Ceni 0$ see  _teea   - net  ad renl
of age perfrhango  lIve births.                                                              Absoite pavoty Inca  m-l Is rcan  maca leve  belen  hftok A edema
Atone tn  aeWaeI necn   fPInoaioo ins    ht  ndrtl-L-                                          onrcoal   deqeat  disc pleaesnilnnfn   serna0   e
bar of_psople (total, urba..  and  1rura) othtreasonablecsavatafodbe
enrcPpI itoa   tea   otaeenn   vutandbat ototmtain                                    teniesd Relatlve Pnverty I-rwLvl(t a-aie      re    ema 
-he sc  ta that ftros prolsoctd borehoa, spriga, end senitary sell)at                     hrresvepetyicwlelson-bdofvrgeartls
PerenagsIf the it treptitiv  Ppoploti-ne. EnurhaAtna  pabli                                  pere-1 mcd-  of nba  -etry.  Orhen  a-   ha derived fre  the reas
foetain or stadpost loctetd no  man  then lit eater  from A hoc.. mat be                     leve    th adjaiset Int highe  cotf inig  n ire  eae
rotaidad as..    o d tIhnreaonbl  aces  of tblhanboe.  iv rua  areas                      tetimate Ponlitl-n Selen obA=ata  tnr   geLvltett .e
tesonbl  aces  nud  mpy  he  te  ouewfeorsebas  f hehoseol            ed rurl    er-nt of populetie  (orhe  sd Intl   lear   aslt
Atrese to ic-to~i Oepyani (oretofrrMaIc  - iotal, -vbeoadmea'
tc-t or people (ttl,uban, and ttal  served by ancet  dispoen  as
the co.iacic  and disposl   iho  nihu   retat f hrstscrt
let itetallattoasth.                                                                                               t f  P~~i.   T t  Conhai  Anlyt  en.  d froj-rtlw   hamarte-t
Potulcion  ar Pbsicln   - Pouiecin diided by n-bar of p-eticlag physi-                                                                 hap 19f 1
dan-  q.ualfId from a madirc. chol2 a1t  _uivrity level.
P-otult -ot     ...nuring P erect -Ptuaoidividad by Ioehe  of practicing
saleeedsEa1eegoduatsncs,practical nures  and ..sIIc-ct norses



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Pag 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979:  US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979  **                                                                    ACTUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, CONSTANT 1972 PRICES)
US$ Million           $                                                 1972 - 79
GNP at Market Prices                                  1,450            100.0                                                  4.2
Gross Domestic Investment                               424             29.2
Gross National Savings                                  220             15.2
Current Account Balance                                 227             15.7
Exports of Goods, NFS                                   423             29.2                                                  7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS                                   578             29.8                                                  9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added (Factor Costs)
US$ million        %
Agriculture              495           32.4
Mining 1/                297           19.4
Industry                 269           17.6
Services 2/              468           30.6
TOTAL               1,529           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(CFAF billion)              % of GDP
1974/75   1977/78          1975       1978
Current Revenues                        22.4       56.0          13.4       18.2
of which uranium revenue             ( 2.5)    (24.6)         ( 1.5)    ( 8.0)
Current Expenditures                    17.5       38.7          10.5       12.5
Current Balance                          4.9       17.3           2.9        5.6
Capital Expenditure                      1.9       17.6           1.1        5.7
External Assistance
Overall Balance                         +3.0       -0.3           1.8       -0.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1971      1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                   12.1       12.9       15.5       20.3       22.3       29.2       37.6       54.2       66.9
Bank credit to Public Sector            -2.3       -3.5       -3.4       -7.2     -11.5      -12.3      -16.4      -11.9      -16.4
Bank credit to Private Sector            9.7       10.7       12.5       21.0       28.5       28.6       32.7      54.2       74.5
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970=100)         104.2      114.4      127.8      132.1      144.1      178.1      219.2      241.6     259.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                       .         9.8       11.7        3.4        9.1       23.6       23.0       10.2        7.3
Bank credit to Public Sector
Bank credit to Private Sector             .        10.3       16.8       68.0       35.7        0.4       14.3       65.7       37.5
**   Staff estimates.
Not available.
Not applicable.
1/   Mostly uranium mining
2/   Including Government and duties and taxes on imports.
April 2, 1981



- 21 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(in millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1975         1979                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS -/:  (Annual Average: 1975-79)
Imports of Goods, NFS                     167.8        571.0                                           US$ Million                 _
Imports of Goods, NFS                     226.5        697.9                                           U$iln
Resource Gap (deficit = -)                -58.7       -126.9                    Livestock                   38.7                    15.1
Uranium                   177.1                    69.2
Interest Payments (net)                  -10.7         -18.7                    Groundnuts                    .6                      .2
Workers' Remittances                      -18.7        -31.3                    All other                   39.5                    15.5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 3.0           .                       TOTAL                    255.9                   100.0
Net Transfers                              77.1         87.6
Balance on Current Accounts                 8.0        -89.3                    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Direct Foreign Investment (net)            15.8         48.7                    Public Debt, including guaranteed
Net MLT Borrowings                         17.0         38.3                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total coustanding and
Disbursements                     (18.8)         (.)                        disbursed                                      593.2
Repayment                         ( 1.8)          (.)
I/                                                                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Other items 1                            -19.8         _
Change in Reserves (end year)               5.0         -2.3                    Public Debt, including guaranteed
Foreign Reserves (end year)                51.4         85.3                    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                      Total outstanding and
disbursed                                        3.4%
2 of imports                       12.8         11.0
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1979
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and disbursed                          48.1
1971:  US$1.00 = CFAF 277.03                                                 Undisbursed                                         53.4
1972:  US$1.00 = CFAF 252.21                                                 Outstanding including undisbursed                 101.5
1973:  US$1.00 = CFAF 222.70
1974:  US$1.00 = CFAF 240.50
1975:  US$1.00 = CFAF 214.32
1976:  US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:  US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1978:  US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979:  US$1.00 = CFAF 212.72
1/ Including errors and commissions.
2/ Recorded exports only.
*  staff estimates.                                                                                                      April 2  1981
not applicable.
not available.



- 22 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as at January 31, 1982)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ million
Credit                                           Amount (less cancellation) 1/
Number   Year           Purpose                       IDA       Undisbursed
Eight credits fully disbursed                         35.9
441     1973       Drought Relief                     2.0          0.2
612     1976       Niger Third Highway               15.6          1.8
800     1978       Forestry Project                   4.5          0.2
809     1978       Employment Creation
Project                         5.0          1.1
851     1978       Irrigation                        15.0          5.0
885     1979       Livestock                         12.0          9.7
886     1979       Feeder Roads                      10.0          5.3
967     1979       Dosso Agricultural
Development                    20.0         19.9
1026     1980       Second Maradi Rural
Development                    16.7         15.3
Total                                      136.7         58.5
of which has been repaid                   0.5
Total now outstanding and held by IDA   136.2
Total undisbursed                                        58.5
1151     1981       Education 2/                      17.3 3/      17.3 3/
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   The Credit was signed June 19, 1981, and is not yet effective.
3/   Million SDRs.



- 23 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 1, 1982 1/
Credit 612 - Third Highway Project; US$15.6 Million; Credit of March 5,
1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing
Date: December 30, 1981 extended to June 30, 1983
This project includes: (a) a four-year program of periodic mainten-
ance, including procurement of equipment and training of specialized public
work staff, (b) construction and improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian border road (40 km) and (c) con-
sulting services for supervision of road construction and a survey of the
domestic construction industry. Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border
road was completed ahead of schedule and the Zinder-Nigerian border road is
expected to be completed shortly. A study of the domestic construction
industry is currently underway, as are studies to prepare a proposed fourth
project.
Credit 800 - Forestry Project; US$4.5 million; Credit of June 7, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: February 7, 1979; Closing Date:
December 30, 1981 extended to June 30, 1982
This project will assist Government in its efforts to establish 400
ha of pilot irrigated plantations and 700 ha of pilot rainfed tree plantations;
improve the rural forestry activities of the Forestry Department; finance a
training program in extension services; provide assistance to research and
a workshop maintenance unit. The Project Management Unit created within the
Forestry Department to assist with coordinating and monitoring project activi-
ties is fully operational and project implementation is almost completed.
Credit 809 - Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project aims at assisting Government in the promotion of more
labor intensive employment creation in Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale
d'Administration, financial and technical assistance for creation of OPEN, the
new agency created under the project to provide technical assistance and
training for local enterpreneurs, and by assisting the Artisans Center to
improve the productivity and employment of artisans affiliated with the
Center. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-24 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 851 - Irrigation Project; US$15.0 Million; Credit of February 15,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983
The project aims to assist the Government in expanding cereal and
vegetable production along the Niger River through development of a 1,550 ha
polder; providing agricultural development services on neighbouring irrigation
schemes (1,215 ha) and dryland farming plots (9,000 ha); and in creating the
necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation
development program through establishment of a national agency (ONAHA) which
would integrate and strengthen the activities of construction and management
of the irrigation schemes. The project will also finance the preparation of a
feasibility study for a nearby polder, as well as the services of a financial
coordinator to be attached to the Ministry of Rural Development to assist in
accounting and financial management of the various IDA-financed agricultural
projects in Niger. Due to initial delays in credit signing and in the award
of contracts for equipment and engineering services, construction of the
irrigation works started in March 1980. The construction of the first 230 ha
was completed in August 1981 and they are presently under irrigation. The
completion of an additional 900 ha is foreseen by July. Completion of project
beyond that will depend on a survey of recently detected salinity problems.
Credit 885 - Livestock Project; US$12.0 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
A combination of health and productivity services is being made
available to herd owners in the pastoral and cropping zones. An innovative
approach is being launched by establishing Associations of Pastoralists,
legally recognized cooperative entities based on existing social groups.
Members of these Associations will have access to a greater range of health
services, new forms of credit for backgrounding and breeding, improvements to
existing wells and extension of watering points and advice on range management.
The project is also providing assistance to the Livestock Department to
improve competence in delivery of productivity services. Project implementa-
tion proceeds satisfactorily, particularly in drug distribution for which a
self-financing network of 190 paraveterinary works has been set up.
Credit 886 - Feeder Road Project; US$10 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project will improve 1,000 km of feeder roads which support
Government's agricultural program and create an appropriate structure for the
execution of comprehensive feeder road programs. The project will finance
highway construction equipment and spare parts; labor, materials and supplies
for the improvement program; offices for and technical assistance to the newly
created Feeder Road Technical Section to aid in implementing and monitoring
the improvement program and in training technicians, mechanics, equipment
operators and training officers. Equipment procurement is complete. Follow-
ing an intervention by the President of Niger construction standards have been
raised, and the construction target lowered from 1,000 kms to about 800 kms.



- 25 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 967 -  Dosso Agricultural Development Project;
US$20.0 Million; Credit of June 12, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: February 25, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project comprises a five-year program intended to increase
farm incomes and improve the welfare and standard of living of the rural
population of Dosso Province and to build up an extension service through:
the introduction of improved farming practices for rainfed cereals, cowpeas
and groundnuts; the improvement of vaccination coverage, delivery of drugs
and feed supplements and animal husbandry practices for beef cattle and
work oxen; the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes for 200 ha of
bottomlands; the introduction of a Training and Visit extension system; the
strengthening of the farm input and implement supply system; and applied
research. Training, extension, input supply and credit services would be made
accessible to about 80,000 farm families, of whom 25,000 are expected to adopt
the recommended improved practices. In spite of one year delay in start up
period input distribution targets have been met both in agriculture and
livestock. Organizational conflicts between project management and executing
agencies may still frustrate these results for the next campaign.
Credit 1026 - Second Maradi Rural Development Project; US$16.7 Million;
Credit of June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
February 26, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project follows up on the First Maradi Project. It includes
the expansion of improved agricultural practices in rainfed farming areas;
training of extension staff, young farmers and blacksmiths; agricultural
credit; development of irrigation potential in Maradi; applied agricultural
research; seed multiplication; functional literacy and health proposals.
Some cost overruns are anticipated on the land development component as a
result of omissions and underestimations.
Credit 1151 - Education Project; SDR 17.3 Million; Credit of June 19,
1981; Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project comprises a five-year program to improve educational
planning and the preparation of education projects, planning for civil service
upgrading and the training of rural development workers. It includes (a) tech-
nical assistance and fellowships to assist in educational planning and project
preparation; (b) technical assistance to the Ministry of Civil Service and
Labor to establish a training directorate, review the needs for upgrading and
formulate pilot upgrading programs for the public administration; (c) the
final phase of expansion and upgrading of an agricultural technician training
institute at Kolo; (d) the development of a new animal production training
school at Kolo; and (e) technical assistance and operating costs for project
management.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Identification Missions: November/December 1980
(b) Appraisal Mission: May/June 1981
(c) Date of Completion of Negotiations: February 18, 1982
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1982
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   The following actions are conditions of effectiveness:
(i)  The Technical Advisor financed by FAC has been employed (para.
28(i));
(ii) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE Credit and
the FAC grant have been met (para. 30); and
(iii) A Special Account and Project Account have been opened and the
Government's initial deposit representing its estimated quarterly
contribution to operating expenditure has been made to the Project
Account (para. 33).
B.   Other conditions:
(i)  the Government will fix an acceptable permit price for wood from
plantations and will review in consultation with IDA, the permit
price for natural forest wood with a view to increasing these
prices to reflect the value of wood products to the economy and to
encourage wood conservation, all before December 1983 (para. 19).
(ii) working agreements will be signed between the Project Unit and both
ONAHA and INRAN defining the responsibilities of each in the opera-
tion of plantations within the agricultural perimeters and of
research (para. 28(c) and (e)).



________________________________________                                                                                                                                                    lORD   15903~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRI    19Q
F-       $\0L0440,         ASEA                            4~                             h'                           i-                            2r,4                                                                                        ETME 
NJ ->   $L                                                                                                                                                                                L I B Y A
N   I r G   E R*'5e
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                    K.
Eo F5na Reserves                                                                                      /X0
Forest Re-eres/
VEGETATION ZONES  ACCORDING  TO   JC4t, 1979                                      /       \                                            (|.
000010on 0.40                                                               *e/    :        (     ,                                                  
| DSET DUNES 414 lOOF VSEATION                                         -/                                                                                                                                                    li T   .,
NDTHR SAELTOSCTrON ZOE0A lC~ ' 040  104 lOs .41 reollI =   4 -
LIi         =     0SF  SAoPlOtO4 S 04} 4= LI                                                                                                                                                   7<==>\   
S.donon ...      s440400 r            ~       .      .
    D eeorrrrenr CepItele                                 : ..       L :                  ? pgL!ijE5L :'                  :        !-1  
- Oeportrrenr Roorrerres                                                                >9                                                                                                         
NOrENLIMIT Of C14r
1  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                              - - -. o
TA1      UA              4        _                              = 
oR   sCh d
U   P  P  E  R         t;Fot         
VO LT A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   It
12' nse E .*s.M    Ns   s r  >11  $   1              |                            ~~~~N     I    G           E    R    I   A                                                                                    f                      12
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,S,K2!=,,   UfP./sS0b.u!   B  E  N    I N                                                                                  -                              I                               In               (
2   j  |^\<    S                               E                             10                              12                               14           >  |                ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



