Document of
The World Bank                         r
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3632a-NIR
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 17, 1982
Projects Department
Vestern Africa Regional Office
Agriculture III Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1             =   CFAF 270
CFAF l million        US$3,704
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
4
i stere                        =  i m3 of stacked wood
1 m3 (natural forest wood)    =  1.875 steres   450 kg
1 m3 Eucalyptus/neem wood      =  1.6 steres      720 kg
24 Eucalyptus/neem poles       =  1 m3
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE     -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CILSS    -  Comite Permanent Inter-etats de Lutte contre la Secheresse
au Sahel
CP       -  Cooperative Program/Programme de la Cooperation
CTFT     -  Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (France)
ESA      -  Ecole Superieure d'Agronomie (Niger)
FAC      -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO      -  Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FNI      -  Fonds National d'Investissement (Niger)
IDA      -  International Development Association/Association Internationale de
Developpement
IEF      -  Ingenieur des Eaux et Forets
INRAN    -  Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger
IPDR     -  Institut Pratique de Developpement Rural (Kolo)
IUCN     -  International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
MDR      -  Ministere du Developpement Rural
NGO/ONG  -  Non Governmental Organization/Organisation non Gouvernementale
NLC      -  Northern Limit of Cultivation
ONAHA    -  Office National des Amenagements Hydro-Agricoles
PPAR     -  Project Performance Audit Report
PPF      -  Project Preparation Facility
UNESCO   -  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 31
.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ..............................................                            1
A.   Project  Background  ......... .................                    ........    1
B.   The Rural  Sector  ......             ...........................               l
C.   The Forestry  Subsector  ............ ...................                       2
Natural Forest  Cover  ..............................                        2
National Forest Estates  and Tree Plantations                     ......     3
Role  of Forestry  in the Economy  ...................                       3
Demand for Forest Products and
Environmental  Disruption  ........................                       4
Exploitation of Forest Products  ...................                         4
The Task Ahead  ....................................                         S
Substitutes  and Better Uses  of  Wood  ....                 ...........    i
Substitutes  .....................................                        5
Woodstoves  ......................................                        6
Forestry  Institutions  . ...........................  .                     7
Organization ......................                                       7
Resources .......................                                         7
Training  ................. .......................                       7
Research  ....... .............               ....................        8
Sector Objectives  and  Strategies  ....... ..                 .........     8
Rural  Participation in Forestry Programs  ..........                        8
Bank' s Role in Forestry ..................                                  9
II.    THE PILOT FORESTRY PROJECT  ..............................    Lu
A.   Objectives and Design  ........   ................... .                        10
Project Description  ..................              ...u..........    l
Project  Costs  .... .................................                     lu
Organization and Management  ..*                 ....................    ll
B.   Experience  of  the First Two  Years  ................                 ...    il
C.   Transition between  the First and  Second Projects  ....    1i
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  ........................................    13
Introduction  ...................                .........................          13
Physical Environment  ....                ................................    13
Human and Economic Environment  .....                   .....................       14
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.    THE PROJECT  ...................                ..............               ou ............    14
A.   Objectives and Brief Description ................... a#*..*....                   14
B.   Detailed Project Description..........................                            16
Rural Tree Plantations  *,*,***,,,*********,**,******                         16
State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations                        .............    17
Gum Arabic  ... ........                                                      18.... .. ....  18
"Industrial"  Irrigated  Tree  Plantations                     ............   18
Tree Plantations in Agricultural
Irrigated Perimeters  ... ............ . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .  .    19
Watershed Management/Erosion Control  ......                      ...... ..   19
Natural Forest  Management                   ..........................       20
Bushfire  Control  ........             ... ........................    20
Training  ................           ........            09-4........ ...........    21
Research  ...........*.....*.***....*.***.....***.*.*......   ....            21
Planning,  Monitoring and Economic  Studies                      ..........    21
C.   Project  Implementation  .... .... . ...... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    22
D.   Project  Cost Estimates  ....    ...............   .......... ..                  23
E.   Proposed  Financing  ..            ........... ........ .. ..  * ......           25
Project Preparation  Facility  .......................                        26
Project Working  Fund  ....              ...........................          26
F.   Procurement and Disbursement                        .........................     27
Procurement  ....... ...........................................    27
Disbursement  .*......................          ........... ..........     28
G.   Accounts, Audits  and Reports  ...................... ...    29
V.    ORGANIZATION  AND MANAGEMENT  ....................                             ...      29
A.   Project Management  ... ....... .. .. .   .............................    29
B.    Staffing  ............. ....... ..   . ................. ...........    30
Nigerien Professional  Staff  ...................                  .....    31
Expatriates  ......... .         .0.....    .........             0*0.......... . 9....    31
Consultants  et*****   ........................ **o.......                    31
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation  .................  .                  ..........       31
VI.     PRODUCTION,  MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  ..............                           32
A.   Production             ...........................................    32
B*  Marketing   .......... o ........ ..  ........ . ........ .    34
iMarkets         ........          **......o.......................o....      34
Prices  ............   .....   00.....           000......................    34.
C.    Government  Cash Flow  ..........................................    36



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ........................  36
A.  Benefits ....   .........................................   36
Direct Benefits s  ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Indirect Benefits ...     ...............................  37
B.  Economic Analysis and Rates of Return ................   37
C.  Risks and Sensitivity Analysis      .......................  39
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................  39
Annex l  Responsibilities of Project Management
Annex 2 (Tables)
I. Total Costs per Year and per Component
II. Total Costs per Year and per Category of Expenditure
III.  Total Costs per Component and per Category of Expenditure
IV. Total Costs per Year and per Component
1. Rural Forestry
2. Old State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations
3. New State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations
4.  Gum Arabic Plantations and Stands
5.  Industrial Irrigated Tree Plantations
6. Tree Plantations in Irrigated Agricultural Perimeters
7. Watershed Management/Erosion Control
8.  Natural Forest Management
9. Bushfire Control
10.  Training
11.  Research
12.  Planning and Monitoring
13.  Project Management Unit
14.  Unit Costs and Seasonal Labor Requirements
V.  Total Wood and Gum Arabic Production
VI. Government Cash Flow
VII.  Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 3 (Tables)
Table 1:  Economic Analysis - Rural Forestry
Table 2:  Economic Analysis - State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations
Table 3:  Economic Analysis - Plantations in Irrigated Agricultural Perimeters
Table 4:  Economic Analysis - Gum-Arabic Plantations
Table 5:  Sensitivity Analyses
MAP:  Situation Map IBRD No. 15903



- iv -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Documents in Project File
1.   Working Papers
a.   Technical aspects of the Project (including unit cost tables)
b.   Training
c.   Economic and Financial Analysis
2.   Various Documents on Rural Forestry in Niger
3.   Terms of Reference



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Project Background
1.01      In early 1980, the Government of Niger requested IDA to continue
financing of the ongoing Pilot and Technical Assistance Forestry project
(Cr. 800-NIR) scheduled to close in December 1981. This first project had
been appraised in October 1977 and had become effective at the beginning of
1979. It aimed at supporting a three year program of pilot activities to
produce fuelwood and building poles, prevent further environmental degradation
around towns due to the progressive destruction of the natural forest cover,
and strengthen the Forestry Department through the provision of technical
assistance and equipment. A progress report on the First Project is at
Chapter II.
1.02      Government submitted the terns of reference for the preparation
of the second phase project to IDA in July 1980 and the project was prepared
by consultants and staff of the Bank/FAO cooperative program, and in collabora-
tion with staff of the First Project, during a mission to Niger in November/
December 1980. The final preparation report was submitted to Government and
IDA in February 1981 and Government, after review, requested that the project
be appraised.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the preparation report and
the findings of an IDA/CCCE/FAC appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. J
Baah-Dwomoh, J. Gorse and S. Khenissi (IDA), J. Bailliez and Robin (CCCE),
Freud (FAC) 1/, A. El Krief (UNESCO/BANK CP), C. Bailly and T. Wood (IDA
consultants) that visited Niger in May/June 1981. The mission was assisted
throughout by the management and staff of the First Forestry Project.
B. The Rural Sector
1.04      Niger has a population of about 5.2 million and a total land area
of 1.3 million km2, of which 75% is desert, 15% semi-arid and less than 10%
suitable for crop cultivation. About 75% of the population are concentrated
on less than 8% of the land area that forms the southern rainfall belt where
annual rainfall is between 500 mm and 800 mm. In this area of about 100,000
km2 population density averages about 20/km2 but exceeds 100 per km2 in
the more favorable locations in the valleys. The population is essentially
rural (87%) but the urban population is increasing rapidly at 7.0% per year
against 2.2% in the rural areas and an average population growth rate of 2.8%
for the country.
1.05      Despite a harsh climate and poor soils, which present formidable
constraints to agricultural development in Niger, the rural sector still
1/   Mr. Freud was with the mission for only part of its stay in Niger.



- 2 -
remains critical to the country's economy. In 1970 the sector accounted
for about 60% of GDP and close to 80% of exports. This share fell to about
44% of GDP and 25% of exports in 1979 because of the rapid rise in uranium
production and exports but also the slow development of the rural sector. Of
the 44% contribution to GDP in 1979 by the rural sector, crops accounted for
54%, livestock 36%, fishing 2% and forestry 8%. The sector however employs
about 90% of the labor force and the main crops grown are millet, sorghum,
groundnuts, cowpeas and rice. Livestock production constitutes a major rural
sector activity, but the droughts of the early 1970s disrupted livestock
production. However herd reconstitution has begun in earnest and in recent
years the livestock sector has made up about 18% of GDP.
1.06      Food self-sufficiency and the raising of the standard of living of
the rural population constitute the main objectives of Government's develop-
ment policy. But the effects of increasing population, leading to the dis-
appearance of fallow lands and cultivation of marginal areas, have led to
significant falls in average crop yields. This process of decreasing produc-
tivity has accelerated migration from rural areas to urban centres and to
neighboring countries. The main issues currently in the rural sector are:
(i) the limited scope for further productivity increases especially in rain-
fed agriculture; (ii) the high cost per hectare of irrigation development;
(iii) inadequate official input and output pricing; (iv) the competition
between agriculture, forestry and livestock; and (v) how to get the rural
population to participate in reafforestation schemes to improve their fuelwood
supplies and reduce the effects of soil deterioration.
1.07      Government responses to these issues include measures: (i) to
exploit the potential of existing rainfed agriculture through setting up
regional productivity projects whereby improved extension, input supply,
credit and marketing services would be made available to farmers; (iij to
develop as economically as possible, the irrigation potential of the country
as a complement to rainfed agriculture and, using the experience already
gained from existing perimeters, to improve their efficiency and reduce the!
costs of new perimeters; (iii) to make improvements in output prices by moving
them closer to economic prices and reduce subsidies where politically feasible;
(iv) to encourage the rural population to plant trees to serve as windbreaks,
shelter belts, and in some cases to reserve areas for pasture and; (v) to
improve the quality of services provided by the rural development insti-
tutions through education and increases in their staff and working funds.
C.   The Forestry Subsector
Natural Forest Cover (see Map )
1.08      The distribution of the natural forest cover (estimated at about
14 million ha including the wooded "sylvopastoral" and "sylvo-agricultural"
formations) is heavily dependent on rainfall. The forest cover increases in
density from north to south, and vegetation zones in Niger include: a) the



- 3 -
Saharian Zone (annual rainfall 25-200mm, 55% of the country's area); b) the
Sahelian Zone made up of; (i) the Sahelo-Saharian Sector (annual rainfall
200-400mm, 20% of the country's area), and (ii) the Sahelo-Sudanian Sector
(annual rainfall 400-600mm 15% of the country's area); and (c) the Sudanian
Zone (annual rainfall 600-800mm, 10% of the country's area).
1.09      Forests in Niger are not dense compact areas of trees but are
rather made up of dispersed tree formations with an avera§e growth rate
ranging from 0.1 m3/ha/year in the Sahelian zone to 0.5 m/ha/year in the
Sudanian zone. Moreover, most of these forests belong to "agropastoral" or
"sylvopastoral" formations and produce not much fuelwood or building poles.
Thus, out of the estimated 14 million ha of natural forest cover only about
2-5 million could be potentially exploitable as sources of fuelwood and
building poles. The total size or distribution of the forest cover is however
uncertain and an ongoing USAID-financed forestry and land use planning project
(see paras 3.02 and 4.17) will more accurately establish the size of the
wooded areas per category: sylvopastoral, agro-sylvicultural, and forests
exploitable for wood production (fuelwood and building poles).
National Forest Estates and Tree Plantations
1.10      The forest and farm reserves, parks and controlled forestry areas
cover only about 1 million ha. (forest reserves -20%; fauna reserves -
80%). Due to the current population growth, many of these reserves are
largely encroached upon and thus are in poor shape. Forest plantations cover
some 20,000 equivalent ha planted mainly with Neem (Azadarichta indica),
Eucalyptus camaldulensis, Prosopis juliflora and Acacia albida, most of them
for fuelwood and building poles. Numerous woodlots have been planted by
villagers, schools, youth organizations and other groups but many of them are
in poor shape due to lack of maintenance and poor soil conditions. However,
it should be noted that as wood becomes more scarce, these groups can be
expected to take better care of their plantations.
Role of Forestry in the Economy
1.11      The official statistics, which impute 4% of GDP to the forestry
subsector, do not adequately reflect the important role that the natural
forest savanna and bush play in consumption and protection of the soil.
Fuelwood and other forest products form an important element of domestic
consumption.  Firewood accounts for a high proportion of both rural and
urban energy resources (about 85% in 1978) supplying basic needs for cooking
and heating. Poles are also used for house construction, farm buildings, and
animal drawn carts. The forest areas are a significant dry weather grazing
reserve and supply an important part of the fodder required for sustaining
transhumant populations. Subsidiary forestry products such as gums, various
fruits, and nuts, as well as thatching and weaving materials, are widely used
by the rural population. The forests have pronounced climatic effects, mainly
through the provision of shade that helps to reduce the range of daily
temperature variations; these effects are of particular importance in the



- 4 -
drier areas by lowering the evaporation from the soil and aiding temperature
regulation in both human and livestock populations. The forests provide a
habitat for a wide range of animal and plant life that cannot survive outside
a woodland environment. Tree and shrub roots fix the soil and protect it
against wind and rain erosion, and in some areas, improve soil fertility by
tapping soil nutrients at appreciable depths and returning them to soil
surface layers through leaf shedding. Several arid species, such as certain
Acacias common in Niger, help fix nitrogen. Traditionally, the forests have
also provided the basis for shifting cultivation, and part of Niger's agricul-
tural economy continues to depend on this system of farming.
Demand for Forest Products and Environmental Disruption
1.12      It is estimated that average fuelwood consumption was about
0.7 m3/capita/year in the rural areas and about 0.9 m3/capita/year in the
urban centres in 1980. Total fuelwood consumption for the year was therefore
some 3.9 million m3 (1.8 million tons). 1/ This figure exceeds by about
95% the average annual increment of the exploitable natural forest cover,
equivalent to about 2.0 million m3/year, 2/ leading to an over-exploitation
of existing forests. The rapidly increasing demand is now being met almost
entirely from natural forest and bush supplies which in many areas, parti-
cularly around Niamey, have been completely cut out. The resulting wind
erosion of top soil has led to declining soil fertility and degradation of
large areas of potential agricultural land.
1.13      Building poles are also in high demand and amount to some 5-10%
of total fuelwood consumption. A large part of building pole demand in the
Niamey area used to come from the southern borassus stands ("roneraies") of
Dallol Maouri but these poles had been disappearing rapidly and Governmnent
recently banned the exploitation of poles in this area. With shortages iin
most parts of the country, then, some poles are now being imported from
Nigeria and consumers are also using species available locally. This is in
addition to imports of industrial wood (e.g. construction grade lumber) from
the coastal countries.
Exploitation of Forest Products
1.14      Unlike other Sahelian countries, such as Senegal, forestry exploita-
tion is nct organized. Forest products may be exploited in Niger by indivi-
duals either for family use or for sale. Forestry exploitation for sale
requires permits issued by the Forestry Department mainly to transporters who
buy wood from farmers and laborers cutting the wood.  Harvesting for family
use is not subject to the forestry permit. There are no cooperatives, and
forestry does not constitute a full time activity for any group. Policing by
the Forestry Department is, however, not systematic and the major part of wood
1/   lm3 = 450 kg (natural forest).
2/   0.4 m3/ha/year x 5.0 million ha.



sold in urban centres is transported by donkeys and camels making it difficult
to systematically control entry points to towns to check if sellers did obtain
permits. The receding forest cover around major population centres however
has led to the increased use of trucks by merchants for wood sale and has
improved the chances of a better Forestry Department control. The proposed
project provides for a study of the organization of the forestry market; and
this study would recommend a better means of organizing the exploitation of
forestry resources to reduce illicit wood cutting within the general framework
of wood conservation.
The Task Ahead
1.15      Niger's population in the year 2000 is projected to be about 8.8
million. Assuming conservatively that each urban resident consumes 0.8
m3/year and each rural resident 0.6 m3/year after taking into account substi-
tutes and more efficient wood usage, Niger would need about 6.2 million m3
of fuelwood and building poles to meet domestic demand in year 2000. Given
the disappointing mean annual increment of the natural forest cover and
the ever increasing demand for wood products, this would imply the establish-
ment of extremely ambitious tree plantations and natural forest management
programs that cannot be achieved under present conditions.
1.16      Besides, with almost all the country having less than 800 mm of
erratic rainfall, the technical constraints to forestry development in Niger
are formidable. A major problem is the lack of productive technical packages
adapted to these semi-arid conditions, for trials under rainfed conditions
through ongoing projects have had variable and sometimes disappointing re-
sults. Initial results from these projects show that for the average hectare
of rainfed tree plantations, expected production would be only 2-3m3/year
for well-managed plantations and 1-2 m3/year for rural woodlots. There exists
however the possibility of producing wood under irrigation (20m3/ha/year)
which if feasible, could play a significant role in taking the pressure off
continued devastation of the natural savannah woodland; but pilot irrigated
tree plantations, like some of the more promising ongoing projects, are too
young to assess the technical and economic viability of this relatively
sophisticated type of plantation. Besides, due to the livestock and agrarian
pressure prevailing in the southern rainfed belt, all forestry plantations
need to be efficiently fenced and guarded, an expensive undertaking. It is
increasingly evident then that, in addition to wood conservation and state-
managed tree plantations, the natural forest cover would need to be protected
against over-cutting, over-grazing, over-clearing and uncontrolled bushfires
and that the effective participation of the rural population is a prerequisite
to a long-term strategy for forestry development in Niger; it would also be
necessary for the country to look into possible substitutes for wood. All
these factors have been addressed by the proposed project.
Substitutes and Better Uses of Wood
1.17      Substitutes.  The price of firewood has been increasing at the rate
of about 5%/year in real terms over the last decade. Despite these increases
in price, demand and consumption of firewood remain high and are even on the



-6-
rise. Traditional cooking methods continue to use wood inefficiently but not
much has been done to find suitable substitutes for firewood. Since 1972,
there has been a sustained increase in imports of butane gas (250 tons in
1972 to 500 tons in 1979) but the total volume remains small and a large part
of this is used for commercial purposes with only limited family use. It is
expected that commercial butane gas use would continue to increase and possibly
some urban families may switch to the use of gas for some types of cooking.
However as in other Sahelian countries, the social and cost constraints
against a full-scale adoption of gas are tremendous and hence gas may not
become a major substitute for firewood in Niger in the foreseeable future.
Other fuels, like kerosene and electricity, are even less widely used for
cooking in Niger and their substitutability for firewood would be subject to
the same social and cost constraints.
1.18      In recent years experiments have been made to introduce solar
heaters and cookers. The water heaters have been more successful than the
cookers in terms of practicability and acceptability by households. While
the heaters perform satisfactorily and store warm water even during the
night, the cookers are clumsy, not well adapted to Nigerien cooking, and
can be used only when the sun is shining. Thus while solar water heaters
can substitute for some fuelwood, the cookers would need to be considerably
improved before they can be considered substitutable for firewood and even
then the initial investment cost may be too high to permit large-scale adop-
tion.
1.19      In the rural areas, the large part of the people have not found
any acceptable substitutes for wood and still travel long distances to fetch
firewood.  In some areas, especially north-west of Niamey, the scarcity
of wood now forces most people to use crop residues and animal dung. Thus,
while the practice of burning residues and dung are not widespread, households
can be expected to turn to these substitutes if continued deforestation
further reduces the available fuelwood supplies. Increasing deforestation is
also causing rural people to cut down and mutilate Gao trees to obtain fodder
for their animals and firewood. The Gao tree (Acacia albida) has been known
to increase the nitrogen and other organic matter content of soils around it
and contributes significantly to soil fertility, in some cases more than
doubling crop yields.  The long term effect of burning animal fodder and dung
as well as cutting.down the Gao trees would be to cause further declines in
soil fertility and a significant reduction in food crop yields, a matter of
critical concern in a country where land suitable for cropping represents
only about 10% of the total land area.
1.20      Woodstoves.  To reduce firewood demand, Niger has been encouraging
the introduction of improved woodstoves. This is being done through projects
financed mainly by bilateral sources and non governmental organizations
(NGOS). Several improved woodstoves projects are also in the preparation or
planning stages and are expected to begin in the next few years. Thus, there
is no lack of organizations or experts anxious to promote woodstoves in Niger,
but the serious danger to avoid is the promotion of inappropriate and unproven
stove models as well as stoves not acceptable to the population. The project



would therefore not be involved in woodstove diffusion but would conduct a
study on the social and economic factors relevant to woodstove development
as well as a critical analysis of the thermal efficiency of existing and
forthcoming woodstove models.
Forestry Institutions
1.21      Organization: The Forestry Department ("Direction des Eaux et
Forets" - DEF) is one of four technical departments of the Ministry of Rural
Development ("Ministere du Developpement Rural " - MDR). It has five divi-
sions at headquarters responsible for: (a) natural forest cover and soil
protection; (b) management of the fauna reserves and development of inland
fisheries; (c) Forestry Policing; (d) Statistics, Studies and Documentation;
and (e) Administration and Finance. It is also organized into eight field
districts.
1.22      Resources.  In 1981 total staff consisted of 301 agents including
8 level A ("Ingenieurs des Eaux et Forets"), 49 level B ("conseillers and
controleurs"), 83 level C ("Agents Techniques des Eaux et Forets") and 161
level D and below ("Preposes and Gardes Forestiers"). Given the magnitude of
the forestry problems, the Forestry Department, in spite of recent improve-
ments in staffing, is still understaffed and thus unable to fulfill a large
part of its responsibilities. There is little planning and inventory con-
trol 1/ and management of field operations is generally weak. The situation
is considerably worsened by an inadequate allocation from the Government
budget of funds, materials and operating supplies. As a result, the Forestry
Department is unable to provide the necessary surveillance and protection
of the forest cover against poaching, overgrazing, overclearing and fires
and to carry out necessary reafforestation or erosion control programs on
a significant scale. Through the supply of technical assistance, equipment
and vehicles, training and operational inputs, the project would continue
the efforts of the first project to improve resources available to the
Department.
1.23      Training.  Forestry education is provided in Niger at the "Institut
Pratique de Developpement Rural" (IPDR) at Kolo for level B and C. There is
no formal training for Level D staff, and they are supposed to learn on the
job, though these are the executing agents. Senior forestry officers have up
to now been trained abroad but in the future they would be trained at the
"Ecole Superieure d'Agronomie" (ESA) in Niamey. Forestry education curricula
however need to be improved by putting more emphasis on reafforestation and
natural forest management. There is also a clear need to provide junior level
staff with some minimum training on forestry techniques and field staff with
refresher courses on state-managed and rural reafforestation as well as
management of natural forests. The proposed project would, as a continuation
of the efforts of the first project, make appropriate provision for such
training.
1/   A USAID-financed forestry and land use planning project, recently started,
is going to take an inventory of existing forests and would build up an
inventory control unit within the Forestry Department.



- 8 -
1.24      Research.  Forestry research is part of the activities of the
"Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique du Niger" (INRAN) which
reports to the Ministry for Research ("Ministere de la Recherche"). The
forestry research division of the institute, which has operated since 1963
with the assistance of the French Government through CTFT, has a major fores-
try research program aiming at improving forestry technical packages (rainfed
reafforestation, irrigated tree plantations, management of natural forest,
erosion control... etc). In 1980, the chief forestry researcher had to leave
for medical reasons and CTFT did not replace him owing to difficulties with
INRAN management at the time.  Consequently the forestry research division of
the institute has had difficulties following its program. Given the clear
need for suitable technical packages however, forestry research has to be
encouraged and supported. Recent changes in INRAN's management has improved
its performance and the French Government through FAC would provide a new
chief researcher to work under the proposed project. The project would also
provide operating means for INRAN's forestry research division.
Sector Objectives and Strategies
1.25      Since the most recent drought (1972), increasing attention has been
given to the role of forestry in economic development leading to an evolving
definition of forestry development programs. These programs have three main
objectives: (i) to protect the remaining natural forest cover from over-
exploitation, encroachment, over-grazing and bush fires; (ii) to develop a
sustained supply of fuelwood, building poles, fruit, fodder, gum and minor
forest products for both rural and urban populations through efficient manage-
ment of the natural forest cover and establishment of tree plantations; and
(iii) to promote better uses of wood and use of substitutes.
1.26      The main strategy to achieve these objectives are to:  build up
forestry institutions through training, research, studies and provision of
operating means; establish fast-growing tree plantations and improve manage-
ment of natural forests; encourage the participation of the rural population
in reafforestation; and support research into methods of improving forestry
technical packages and efficient wood uses. The Niger Government therefore
would work through this project and similar ones to achieve these objectives.
Rural Participation in Forestry Programs
1.27      Several rural forestry programs began in Niger from the early
1970s.  Most of these were financed from external sources and from their
conception did not foresee any substantial participation of the rural popu-
lation. Thus they were conceived as village woodlots ("bois de villages")
where in most cases the land was purchased from farmers and plantation
works done by either the projects or by the forestry services with hired
labor. These woodlots then were considered as "official property" by most
villagers and hence their participation remained limited. In certain
instances district authorities ("sous-prefets") have taken the initiative to
establish communal woodlots from district budgets, but again using hired labor
with limited local participation.



1.28      Recently, several socio-economic studies have been undertaken in
Niger 1/ to evaluate existing rural forestry programs, analyse the problems,
and propose means of encouraging the participation of the rural population.
The main problem found by these studies is that the projects were designed
without making provision for individual participation of the rural population
and hence did not have the support of villagers. This reliance on a community
woodlot system has therefore been ill-suited in the local socio-political
context to serve as a vehicle for reafforestation efforts powered and sustained
by local people. Extension efforts have also been lax as far as reafforestation
is concerned but through the socio-economic studies and the efforts of the
pilot project in establishing rural nurseries, it is clear that farmers are
interested in tree growing but that family or individual woodlots offer them
more tangible incentives for participation and should be pursued through a
vigorous forestry extension effort.
1.29      Recent activities in Niger suggest that the rural population is
already conscious of the need for reafforestation. Test results from wind-
breaks planted in the Majjia valley has shown that these windbreaks have
increased millet yields by about 20-30% and this has aroused the interest of
farmers in tree planting for windbreaks. Farmers are also aware that Gao
trees that have traditionally played a fertilizing role for millet land are
being cut for wood, threatening to reduce their cereal yields, and they have
expressed interest in learning more about selective protection of natural
regeneration for Gao trees and other local tree species. The forestry code
specifies certain tree species as protected but does not discourage the
planting or protection of these species by individuals who can eventually
exploit them; however, the sometimes rigid interpretation of the national
forestry code by some local forestry staff discourages establishment of firm
individual or family property rights in all trees. The project unit as part
of its responsibilities (see Annex 1) would work through the Forestry Depart-
ment to educate forestry staff and the rural population on the proper inter-
pretation of the forestry code. The proposed rural forestry component of
the project would also take note of all these problems and the first year
reconnaissance study planned in this project for the rural forestry component
(see para 4.06) aims at specifically locating areas apt to take up tree
planting either on an individual or family basis but with the understanding
that the trees planted would be their property and that project extension
staff stand ready to help all families willing to plant with technical advice
on planting and tree maintenance.
Bank's Role in Forestry
1.30      The Bank group has financed forestry activities within the framework
of three previous credits: First, the Drought Relief Fund Project (Credit
441-NIR) provided financing for the improvement of gum arabic stands in the
Manga area (Goure, Maine and Diffa). This was a successful operation that
helped to stabilize and increase the incomes of some 5,000 people badly
1/   J.T. Thomson, February and October 1980, Tucker June 1980 and Keita April
1981; the latter two studies were commissioned by the Pilot project as a
preparation for the expanded rural forestry component in this second
phase project.



- 10 -
affected by drought. A total of 6,250 ha of natural gum arabic stands,
instead of 2000 ha as foreseen at appraisal, were protected and harvested
(see PPAR of July 2, 1979). Second, the Maradi Rural Development Project
(Cr. 608-NIR) provided financing for the establishment nnl -4;terincn ef
rural woodlots. This rural forestry program ran into a number of difficulties
due to: (i) farmers reluctance to establish communal tree plantations;
(ii) problems relating to land/labor competition between farming and tree
planting; (iii) problems of protecting trees from browsing animals; and
(iv) the low priority given to such activities both by the extension services
and by farmers. The proposed forestry project has envisaged measures to
reduce such difficulties (paras 1.29 and 4.04 to 4.06) and would work to
achieve the full cooperation and participation of farmers. Third, the Pilot
Forestry and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 800-NIR) that was completed in
December 1981, aimed at strengthening the Forestry Department and establishing
on a pilot basis, industrial irrigated and state managed rainfed plantations.
The experience of the first two years of implementation of this pilot project
is described in Chapter II, and a project completion report is being prepared.
II. THE PILOT FORESTRY PROJECT
A. Objectives and Design
2.01      The Pilot and Technical Assistance Forestry Project (Credit 800-NIR)
was designed to implement a three-year (1979/81) pilot forestry program with
the aim of: (a) improving supplies of fuelwood and building poles in the
urban areas; (b) strengthening the Forestry Department; (c) preparing an
expanded national program of rural reafforestation; and (d) creating a capacity
for planning and monitoring within the Forestry Department.
2.02      Project Description.  The project was appraised in October 1977 and
became effective at the beginning of 1979. It envisaged: (a) establishment
of 400 ha of pilot irrigated tree plantations in the Niamey area; (b) estab-
lishment of 700 ha of pilot state-managed rainfed tree plantations around the
main urban areas; (c) assistance to rural forestry activities in providing
equipment, vehicles, fencing and nursery supplies, and operating means to
forestry districts; (d) training in forestry extension through providing
initial training for junior level staff (Level D) and refresher courses to
field staff; (e) assistance to research in providing materials and operating
supplies to the INRAN forestry division; and (f) implementation and management
of a workshop maintenance unit.
2.03      Project Costs.  Project costs net of import duties and other clearly
identifiable taxes were estimated at appraisal to total US$5.3 million of
which the foreign exchange component would be US$3.7 million or 70%. An IDA
credit of US$4.5 million was concluded to finance 85% of total project costs
with the remaining 15% (part of operating costs, salaries of local staff and
labor) to be met by Government. Total expenditures for the first two years
have been in line with appraisal estimates and the third year costs are
expected to be as estimated.



- il -
2.04      Organization and Management.  A project unit headed by a project
manager, assisted by two expatriates--a tropical forestry specialist and an
irrigation engineer--and supported by middle level Nigerien foresters, one
as counterpart to the irrigation engineer and the other as chief of the state-
managed rainfed plantation component, was established within the Forestry
Department to coordinate and implement the various project activities and pre-
pare, through complementary studies, a second phase project suitable for Bank
support putting emphasis on an expanded national program of rural reafforesta-
tion. The Project Unit maintained close liaison with "Genie Rural" department,
INRAN, and the forestry districts. And with the exception of the activities
located in the Niamey area and directly implemented by the project, all other
activities were implemented by the project unit through the forestry districts.
B.   Experience of the First Two Years
2.05      Project implementation started in December 1978 and in the first
two project years 615 ha of rainfed tree plantations 1/ and 135 ha of irri-
gated tree plantations 2/ have been established. In this third and final year
105 ha of irrigated tree plantations and 150 ha of rainfed tree plantations
have been established. The rainfed tree plantations so far established have
remained in good shape and progress has in general followed expectations. A
large part of the success has been due to the cooperation of the regional and
district forestry services. Among the main problems have been difficulties in
finding good soils in the classified forests on which to plant. The main
lesson from the rainfed plantations therefore is that proper soil conditions
are crucial to successful plantation growth and the second project would
therefore put emphasis on selection of sites (see para 4.08). On the whole,
initial plant growth is encouraging but it is too early to assess the final
yields that would be obtained from these plantations. A major achievement of
the pilot rainfed tree plantation component is that owing to the related
plantation works (production of seedlings, fencing, land preparation, planting,
weeding) the staff of the forestry districts outside the Niamey area, who have
been in charge of carrying out the program under the project unit supervision
have been drastically revigorated. They now have real enthusiasm in estab-
lishing such plantations and this is promising for the second forestry
project as well as other forestry activities in the country.
2.06      Some difficulties have been encountered in the implementation of the
irrigation component of the project. Though investment costs per ha have been
in line with appraisal estimates, operating and recurrent costs appear much
higher than anticipated. There have also been difficulties in receiving
equipment on time and connecting the pumping system to the irrigation network
of the area irrigated under gravity; parts of the area planted have therefore
1/   345 ha Niamey; 60 ha Birrii Nkonni; 100 ha Maradi; 110 ha Matameye
2/   Namarde Goungou perimeter (100 ha under gravity and 35 ha under trickle
irrigation)



- 12 -
not been effectively irrigated and would require some replantîng and the
initial objective of 400 ha was reduced to 240 ha. The implementation of
this component has shown the economic and technical difficulties associatecL
with the full scale irrigation system used in the first project and would
require a close monitoring for the next few years to assess what modificatiLons
are necessary in future such irrigation schemes (see para 4.12). 1/ In the
context of the second project therefore, only small lrrigated plantation
lots would be established along the boundaries and on non agricultural solls
of existing agricultural irrigation schemes. This would have the effect oi
reducing lnvestment and operatlng costs and the trees would utilize the water
that would otherwise have been lost through drainage or percolation, while
protecting the irrigated perimeters from sandstorms and excessive evapotran-
spiration.
2.07      The project provided training courses for field staff, and some
materials and operating costs for forestry research. It also provided
equipment, vehicles, fencing and nursery supplies as well as operating
means for forestry districts within the framework of their rural forestry
activities. The project's main objective of creating a capacity for planning,
managment, and monitoring within the Forestry Department i progressing
well and it has been able to get the forestry districts really involved
in the reafforestation process. The studies on ways and means of involving
the rural population in reafforestation have begun and would continue under
the second project, with concrete actions in setting up, inter alia, a
large scale rural mini-nurseries component.
C.   Transition between the First and Second Projects
2.08      The three year implementation period of the first project ended
in December 1981 and it is expected that the second project will start in
April/May 1982. To ensure a smooth transition between the two projects
Government has:
(a)  appointed under the first project, an internationally-recruited
administration and finance specialist, to prepare an appropriate
accounting and budgeting system for the second project and draw
up a balance sheet for the first (see para 4.35);
(b)  reserved some of its counterpart funds earmarked to the first
project to finance part of the preliminary activities of the second
project during the first quarter of 1982; and
(c)  requested IDA to finance, under PPF, the remaining part of these
preliminary activities (see para 4.31).
1/   Preliminary calculations give a rate of return of about 3.5% counting
benefits only as the wood produced. This estimate is, however, very
rough and a detailed cost-benefit analysis would be done in the course
of the second project.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction (see map)
3.01      The main forestry operations of the project - rainfed and irrigated
state-managed and rural tree plantations, natural forest management, gum
arabic plantations, and applied research - would be carried out in the narrow
rainfed strip of the southern part of the country below the Northern Limits
of Cultivation (NLC) and stretching from the West of the country to the East.
The total area of plantations to be established would be about 8,650 ha in
addition to 12,000 ha of natural forests and gum arabic stands to be managed
and a continuation of management of 1,000 ha of plantations established under
the pilot project. The state-managed and rural rainfed tree plantations,
which would be a follow-up of the first IDA-financed forestry project, would
be established in several blocks in the 5 southern regions of the country.
The rural plantations would be established by individual farm families through-
out the project area. Plantation activities would be concentrated on a
maximum of three regions per year for the state-managed plantations. The new
irrigated tree blocks would be within the irrigated agricultural perimeters.
3.02      Natural forests to be managed (6,000 ha) would be selected from 3 or
4 contrasting situations (rainfall, population and livestock pressure, species,
etc) but having conditions favorable for plant growth, and in the remaining
natural forests in the southern and central parts of the country. The site
selection would be made in collaboration with a USAID financed forestry
project that aims at the compilation of a natural resource inventory and
establishment of model sites. The Gum arabic plantations (750 ha) would be
established in the eastern regions of the country in the districts of Diffa,
Goure and Maine. The management of the 6,000 ha of natural gum arabic stands
would be done in the same area. The bushfire control program would be in the
Tarka Valley located just beyond the NLC and along the Keita, Dakoro, and
Tanout axis. The erosion control component would be established at a site to
be selected following a reconnaisance study (see para 4.16). The planning,
monitoring and economic studies unit, the training centre, and the project
management unit would all be located in Niamey. The research component would
be headquartered at INRAN in Niamey but would follow all the other activities
in the regions.
Physical Environment
3.03      The gross project area covers the whole strip of the Sahelian and
Sudanian zones of Niger and covers about 2,000 km from West to East and about
250 to 300 km from North to South. The climate of the area is characterized
by an eight to nine month dry season and has an annual rainfall of between
500-700 mm below the NLC and 350-500 mm in the Manga region (Gum arabie sites)
and the Tarka Valley (bushfire control program site). The relief varies
from relatively flat areas to quite hilly ones but for the most part these
areas are easily accessible by all-weather roads. The vegetative cover
is a mix between the sudanian and sahelian flora but the vegetation of the
sudanian zone has been deeply modified from human and livestock pressure.



- 14 -
Based on experience gained during the pilot project and other on-going
projects, soil conditions and rainfall have been found to be of primary
importance and hence it would be necessary to establish the proposed state--
managed tree plantations as much as possible on sites having good annual
rainfall and suitable soil conditions in the classitied torest zones. SoiL
reconnaissance surveys would therefore form part of the work program of the
state-managed plantations (para 4.08).
Human and Economic Environment
3.04      The project would be spread over an area covering approximately
300,000 km2, about 20% of the country and would touch parts of six of the
seven regions of the country. About 80% of the total population live in the
project zone and average population density in the area is about 20/km2
compared to a density of about 5/km2 for the country as a whole. The zones,
where the gum arabic plantations and the bush control program would be located,
are less densely populated since they are outside of the NLC and the large
part of the population are transhumant.
3.05      Aside from food and cash crop production, livestock is very impor-
tant in the region. Grazing pressure has been high in recent years and
pasture for livestock during the dry seasons is becoming more and more scarce.
One of the advantages of the project then would be the increased availability
0f fodder through the reduction in pressure on natural woodlands and from the
direct planting of species for firewood and fodder in the rural forestry
component of the project.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Brief Description
4.01      The project is a continuation of the first IDA financed Pilot and
Technical Assistance Forestry Project (Credit 800 NIR) and builds on the
experience of this first phase. Based on the momentum gained in institution
building and especially in establishing rural nurserises this second phase
project aims at:
(i)  improving supplies of fuelwood, building poles, tree fodder and
other minor forest products for the rural and urban population with
special emphasis on a considerably expanded rural participation in
reafforestation; and
(ii)  a continuation of the education and training process started under
the first project, through reinforcing the Forestry Department
through the project unit, and helping Government develop a better
forestry policy and testing different approaches to forestry develop-
ment in Niger in particular and the Sahel in general.



- 15 -
4.02      The project would include the following components:
(a)  Rural Tree Plantations: (i)  establishment and management of
1,500 rural mini-nurseries by the end of the project that would
supply plants for about 6,200 ha equivalent of rural tree
plantations, grown by farmers themselves.
(b) State-Managed Rainfed Tree plantations
(i)  continued management of 760 ha of state-managed rainfed tree
plantations established under the first IDA-financed project;
(ii) establishment and management of 1500 ha of state-managed
rainfed tree plantations;
(iii)  establishment and management of 750 ha of state-managed gum
arabic plantations and protection of 6000 ha of natural gum
arabic stands.
(c) Irrigated Tree Plantations
(i)  Continuation of management of 240 ha of industrial irrigated
tree plantations established under the first IDA-financed
forestry project;
(ii) Establishment and management of 200 ha equivalent of tree
plantations in existing agricultural irrigated perimeters;
(d)  Watershed Management/Erosion Control.  Implementation of a pilot
erosion control program in a selected watershed.
(e)  Management of Natural Forest:  management on a pilot basis of
6000 ha of natural forests;
(f)  Bushfire Control: implementation and management of a pilot
bushfire control program.
(g)  Training:  establishment and management of a forestry training
and refresher unit in Niamey;
(h)  Research:  assistance to the INRAN forestry research division;
(i)  Planning and Monitoring:  improvement of planning and
monitoring activities of the Forestry Department through the
reinforcement of the planning, monitoring and economic studies
unit within the project;
(j)  Strengthening of the Project Unit:  continuation of the institution
strengthening process started under the pilot project through
technical assistance to the project unit.



- 16 -
B. Detailed Project Description
4.03      Rural Tree Plantations (See Annex 2 Table IV.1).  The project would
assist rural populations in establishing mini-nurseries for rural tree planta-
tions on a family/individual basis for fuelwood, fodder, and building pole
production. The plantations would be in the form of roadside and household
plantations as well as for protection as shade trees, fencing, sand dune
stabilization, shelter belts and windbreaks. Seedlings to be provided would
include exotic species such as Neem (Azadarichta indica), Eucalyptus camal-
dulensis, and local species such as Acacia albida ("Gao") Parkia biglobosa,
Adansonia digitata (Baobab), Acacia Seyal, and Acacia Senegal.
4.04      The strategy to be adopted would be new where the component would
concentrate on individual families rather than communities since the latter
approach has not worked in the past (see para 1.28). The individual family
approach presents more flexibility in terms of what types of trees to plant,
the number of trees to plant, where to plant them and for what purpose and
therefore appropriately captures individual farmer needs and preferences.
For the purpose of catering to individual farmer needs therefore a total of
1,500 mini-nurseries would be established by PY5 (see para 4.26) and all
mini-nurseries would be small in size and would cover not more than 100 m2,
with seedlings produced per nursery enough to meet local farmer requirements.
The mini-nurseries are expected to provide plants for approximately 6,200 ha
equivalent of tree plantations by the end of the project.
4.05      To assist farmers in tree establishment and maintenance, the project
would provide:  (a) continuous extension services through forestry field
agents ("animateurs") to be appointed, trained, equipped and supported by the
project; and (b) seeds, plastic bags and nursery supplies 'poles, barbed wire,
chicken wire, tools, watering and water-hauling equipment). In addition to
the normal support of the forestry districts given to such types of activities,
a forestry counsellor at headquarters as well as three regional forestry
controllers, all relatively senior level Nigerien forestry officers, would be
seconded to the component, to supervise and support the "animateurs". The
approach of forestry field agents is an innovation in Niger and it is expected
that by PY5, 50 field agents would have been trained to be in charge of the
1,500 mini-nurseries to be established. All the 50 agents would, however, be
trained by PY2 and the number of mini-nurseries, each would be in charge of,
would increase from 4 in PY2 to 30 in PY5 (see para 4.26). Advice would be
given to farmers on: planting and maintenance procedures; the problems posed
by deforestation; the inter-relationships between agriculture, forestry and
livestock; and the potential benefits, especially in terms of time saved by
women, of afforestation. The project would also provide some audio-visual
material and would build warehouses/sheds for supervisory staff. All these
services and inputs (except for plastic bags) would be provided free of charge
to the farmers. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that farmers would
pay for the plastic bags at a price which is not higher than their cost to the
Borrower. The payment however represents only a nominal amount to ensure that
farmers recognize trees they plant as their property (see para 1.27).



- 17 -
4.06      Given the importance of the rural forestry component in terms of
future replicability, and some uncertainty about the immediate responsiveness
of all farmers, the project through its planning, monitoring and economic
studies unit and with the help of consultants, would undertake a comprehensive
field reconnaissance survey in PY1 to select the sites of the first mini-
nurseries, taking into account both the availability of water and land and
the willingness of the rural population to participate in this scheme and
especially to protect and maintain their plantations. Care would be taken
during this reconnaissance survey and the training of the field agents to
ensure that all facets of the population, and especially women, are included in
the reafforestation effort. The project unit would also pay close attention
to this component and, through the monitoring unit, would undertake an ongoing
evaluation of farmers' responses to the family woodlot approach to be able to
early identify and alleviate constraints that may develop (para 5.08). To
reserve enough fleixibility in the implementation and design of this component,
IDA and project management would also undertake a mid-term review, to be able
to steer it towards the desired objectives, and increase the size of the
component if initial farmer response warrants it.
4.07      State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations (see Annex 2 Tables IV.2 &
IV.3). The first Niger forestry project financed 760 ha of state managed rural
tree plantations (see para 2.05). Because of the short period of the first
project, it is difficult to assess the full potential (economic and technical)
of this plantation and therefore, management of the state-managed rainfed
tree plantations set up under the first project would continue and it would be
closely monitored under the second project. Monitoring of the state-managed
rainfed tree plantation, to be carried out through the project planning and
monitoring unit, would focus on: (a) annual growth and production; (b)
organization and management (weeding, harvesting, guarding); (c) detailed cost
accounting; and (d) cost and benefit analysis.
4.08      Under the second project 1500 ha of state managed rainfed tree
plantations would be established by force account and managed through the
project. The plantation sites would be carefully selected on the basis of
preliminary soil reconnaissance surveys to be carried out by the project
through its planning, monitoring, and economic studies unit. Government has
already set aside land in classified forest zones from which the 1,500 ha
of state managed tree plantations would be selected. The work program would
include: (a) soil reconnaissance surveys followed by establishment of
temporary nurseries close to the selected plantation sites; (b) clearing and
destumping; (c) land preparation including ripping if necessary to improve the
water holding capacity of the soil and facilitate the development of the root
system of seedlings in the clay pan of the soil; (d) fencing (fencing material
can be partially reused later); (e) planting; (f) weeding for three years
after planting; (g) implementation and annual maintenance of a firebreak/tracks
network.
4.09      All plantation establishment works have to be done during the
rainy season, and only six weeks per year are suitable for the planting
of seedlings. Experience to date has demonstrated better survival and faster
growth rates when land preparation has been carried out with machinery rather



- 18 -
than manual labor because of: (a) the very tight work schedule; (b) the need
to deeply rip the clay pan; (c) the fact that during the rainy season few
workers are available for hire due to peak labor requirements for cropping;
and (d) the lack of manpower around plantation sites, which to overcome would
require costly transportation and accommodations. Lt is estimated that about
74 mandays per hectare would be required for the first three years.
4.10      Gum Arabic (see Annex 2 Table IV.4).  Under the project 750 ha of
state-managed gum arabic plantations would be established by force account and
managed in the forestry districts of Diffa, Maine and Goure in the Manga area,
east of Zinder. The work program would include: (a) careful selection of
plantation sites on the basis of a field reconnaissance survey; (b) seed
selection and establishment of temporary nurseries close to the plantation
sites; (c) clearing and destumping; (d) land preparation; (e) fencing;
(f) weeding for three years after planting; (g) implementation and annual
maintenance of a firebreak/track network. The project would provide equipped
tractors (harrow and trailer) to the forestry districts as well as build
accommodations for supervisory staff. It is estimated that about 75 mandays
per hectare would be required for the first three years.
4.11      Under the project 6,000 ha of natural gum arabic stands located in
the Manga area would be protected from bushfires.  Most of the gum arabic
stands were classified under the IDA-financed Drought Relief Fund project
(Credit 441 NIR) (see para 1.30). The firebreak/track network, would be
constructed and maintained by force account with the equipped tractors pro-
vided to the forestry districts in charge of the gum arabic plantations.
4.12      "Industrial" Irrigated Tree Plantations (see Annex 2 Table IV.5).
The First Niger Forestry Project financed 240 ha of an "industrial" irrigated
tree plantation component (105 ha under gravity and 135 ha under trickle
irrigation). The implementation of this component has faced a number of
difficulties (see para 2.06) and because of these problems and the short
period of the first project, it has been difficult to assess the potential
(economic and technical) of the full-scale irrigated tree plantations though
preliminary indications are that the yields from these would be quite high if
properly managed. Besides, this component of irrigated tree plantations is oi-
a fairly wide regional interest and would serve as a model for the whole of
the Sahel if successful, since it is the first of its kind in the region.
Thus in order to be able to fully assess the economic and technical benefits
and costs of a technical package that potentially could be of considerable
value to the Sahel, the irrigated tree plantations component set up under
the first project, would be managed and closely monitored under the second
project. Monitoring of these "industrial" irrigated tree plantations, to be
carried out through the project planning, monitoring and economic studies
unit, would focus on: a) annual growth and production; b) organization and
management (weeding, harvesting and guarding); c) underground water movements
and runoff; d) detailed cost accounting; and e) cost and benefit analysis.



- 19 -
4.13      Tree Plantations in Agricultural Irrigated Perimeters (see Annex 2
Table IV.6). The project would assist farmers working on irrigated perimeters
in establishing tree plantations on the uncultivated soils or along the drains
within the perimeters. Depending on the sites selected these tree plantations
would constitute woodlots, groves, thickets, shelter-belts, or wind-breaks, to
supply forest products while protecting the irrigated perimeters from sand
storms and excessive evapotranspiration. Out of 3,000 or 4,000 ha of irrigated
perimeters, ONAHA--the state agency in charge of irrigated perimeters in
Niger--estimates that 10% would not be suitable for crop cultivation, but can
be planted with trees. Under the project 200 ha (about 40 ha/year) would be
planted mostly with Eucalyptus camaldulensis. The plantation sites would be
carefully selected in agreement with ONAHA on the basis of preliminary field
reconnaissance surveys to be carried out by the project (soils, water table,
beneficiaries..). An assurance was obtained at negotiation that ONAHA and the
Project Unit would sign a working agreement defining the responsibilities of
each in the operation of the component before any disbursements are made for
the component.
4.14      The work program would include:  (a) establishment of temporary
nurseries close to the plantation sites; (b) complementary clearing and
destumping; (c) land preparation including ripping if necessary; (d) fencing;
(e) planting; (f) weeding for two/three years after planting; and (g) irriga-
tion for one/two years if necessary. If the level of the water table is too
far from the ground surface, sites would be prepared to be partially irrigated
either by pumping with an additional portable motor pump or by gravity from
the existing irrigation network.
4.15      The project unit would provide seedlings and finance part of the
labor as well as machinery and equipment costs to carry out land preparation,
weeding, and irrigation. It is intended that part of the operating costs
(about CFAF 130,000/ha or US$480/ha) would be recovered on an experimental
basis from wood sales taking into account the degree of success of plantation
establishment. Project Management and ONAHA would therefore establish a
mechanism during implementation for collecting part of wood sales from these
plantations. The repayment may be in kind or cash. Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that such a mechanism would be established by December 1983 and
would be discussed with IDA. But project management would pay special atten-
tion to increase the unremunerated participation of farmers or communities as
the project progresses. It is expected that wood produced from the plantations
would be at least 45 m3/ha every 3 years of which 70% fuelwood and 30%
building poles (see para 6.03). It is also expected that part of the fuelwood
and building poles produced would be used by participating farmers or communi-
ties and that the remainder would be sold and hence the mechanism established
would take account of this.
4.16      Watershed Management/Erosion Control (see Annex 2, Table IV.7).
Given the importance of erosion control in any eventual reafforestation effort
and in attempts to protect and develop the existing vegetative cover while
improving agricultural and livestock production, the project would finance a
pilot watershed management program. However, to avoid overloading project
management in the first years of the project the erosion control program would



- 20 -
be carried out from the third year. Prior to implementation of this component,
project planning, monitoring and economic studies unit, with the help of con-
sultants, would conduct a reconnaissance survey on existing watersheds to
select a suitable watershed where some techniques of watershed management can
be introduced. The types of possible erosion control measures in the water-
sheds could include: (i) simple contour bunding made with stones associated
with simple rustic weirs upstream; (ii) earth works and revegetation on the
flow lines in the watershed to reduce flow speed along the run; and (iii)
simple reinforced dikes or bunds downstream. The technical details would
however have to be defined after the reconnaissance study. The project would
provide vehicles, equipment and operating costs as well as build a field
warehouse/office. Once the site is selected, the project would start to
implement the erosion control works in PY4 taking into account the proposals
of the study. The watershed management component would require the appoint-
ment of an internationally recruited watershed management specialist for the
three years.
4.17      Natural Forest Management (see Annex 2, Table IV.8).  This component
would focus on the improvement of the productivity and natural regeneration of
the remaining natural forests. Since not very much is known about either the
area of existing forests or the management and productivity of such forests,
the project would introduce new measures in the management of natural forests
and closely monitor them in three or four contrasting situations (rainfall,
population and livestock pressure, species etc.) totalling 6,000 ha. This
would be done in collaboration with the forestry and land use planning project
financed by USAID which aims at compiling a natural resource inventory as well
as establishing model sites for the Forestry Department to conduct experiments
in regeneration in the natural forests.
4.18      The management would begin on an experimental basis under the
Project in order to define efficient natural forest management techniques.
Better natural regeneration and regrowth are expected to result from:
(a) protective measures against encroachments, bushfires, and overgrazing;
(b) canopy manipulation through intermediate and regeneration cuttings, and
(c) if necessary complementary seeding, harrowing and weeding. The applica-
tion of these techniques would be preceded by the setting up of a working plan
including division of the forest reserve into compartments, forestry inventory,
marking of trees and construction of a firebreak/track network as well as
building of accommodations for supervisory staff.
4.19      Bushfire Control (see Annex 2, Table IV.9).  This component would
focus on the protection of the southern sylvopastoral "formations" located
beyond the Northern Limit of Cultivation (NLC), where it would implement and
manage, on a pilot basis, a bushfire control program based on the Bouza-Dalcoro-
Tanout road, currently being improved, in the Tarka Valley. The headquarters
of the program would be at Dakoro.
4.20      The project would provide:  (a) three towers and radio equipment
to detect and report bushfires, (b) equipped tractors and motorgrader to
construct and maintain firebreak/track network, and (c) a warehouse/office and



- 21 -
accommodations for supervisory staff. A firebreak network of about 1,000 km
would be constructed and regularly maintained around the traditional camp
sites of herdsmen because these areas have been the main source of bushfires.
The existing small scale bushfire control scheme carried out by the Dakoro
forestry district has shown that the population living in these areas par-
ticipate in firefighting. To encourage this local participation, the project
would provide vehicles and related operating costs to these volunteer fire-
fighters.
4.21      Training (see Annex 2, Table IV.l0).  The project would establish
and operate a small training center (250 m2) in Niamey to provide regular
training courses especially on state-managed and rural reafforestation tech-
niques for field forestry staff, especially those currently not formally
trained in Niger (Level D) (see para 1.23). The training center would also
provide occasionally, training facilities for other field staff, (e.g.
Agriculture/Livestock extension agents...) dealing directly with forestry
activities. Annual training curricula would be agreed upon with IDA.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Provision
would be made under the project for training fellowships, seminars and visits
for forestry officers.
4.22      Research (see Annex 2, Table IV.ll).  Given that arid and semi-arid
forestry research in general is extremely weak, and that suitable technical
packages, well adapted to the harsh conditions prevailing in the Sahel are
lacking, the project would assist the forestry research division of INRAN to
improve its research. The experience of the first forestry project has shown
that some of the components of the proposed project remain experimental, due
to the technical constraints resulting from the Sahelian environment. There
is therefore the need for accompanying research to improve the technical
themes and to assure success. Thus the project would provide a chief resear-
cher (provided through FAC), vehicles, equipment and operating means to the
forestry research division of INRAN. The chief researcher would work with
project staff, INRAN and, Nigerien forestry researchers already at INRAN, to
initiate a research program appropriate to the project needs and within the
framework of INRAN's national research program. This program would cover:
(i) the techniques of plant breeding; (ii) soil/vegetation relationships;
(iii) tree plantation techniques; (iv) sylvicultural techniques in planting
and exploitation, and (v) improvements in vegetative material and species.
An assurance was obtained at negotiation that INRAN and the Project
Unit would enter into an agreement by December 1982, to follow a program of
research appropriate to project needs and the long-term requirements of the
forestry sector in the country.
4.23      Planning, Monitoring and Economic Studies.  The project would
provide support for: (i) monitoring the technical and economic aspects of the
on-going first Forestry Project and the various components of the second
project; (ii) improving formulation of forestry policy in Niger; and (iii)
undertaking specific studies and reconnaissance surveys on rural forestry,
watershed management and erosion control, improved woodstoves, wood substi-
tutes, marketing of wood products, and preparation of a possible follow-up
project.



- 22 -
4.24      The planning, monitoring and economic studies unit within the
Project Management Unit would be strengthened to plan and coordinate all
aspects of technical and economic monitoring and evaluation of the activities
of the first and second projects. The unit would especially work in close
collaboration with INRAN's forestry research division and with the management
of the USAID financed forestry project to follow the technical aspects of
the project. The unit would also be responsible for organizing specific
studies that would lead to a better definition of forestry policy in the
country. These studies would cover (i) organization of wood marketing,
(ii) optimal price structure for wood from plantations and natural forests,
(iii) recurrent cost financing of forestry projects, (iv) critical socio-
economic and efficiency analysis of existing woodstoves programs, and (v)
possible substitutes for fuelwood. In addition the unit would organize the
reconnaissance surveys on rural forestry and the watershed management program.
The terms of reference for these various studies are in the project files and
were agreed upon during negotiations. The unit would be headed by a Nigerien
forester to be awarded a scholarship during the first project year for studies
in forestry economics and he would be assisted by the forestry technical
adviser to the Project Director. Most of the studies to be done would be
carried out with the assistance of consultants (18 man months) (see para
5.07).
4.25      Management Unit:  The management unit, established under the pilot
project, would be strengthened to undertake the expanded responsibilities
involved in the second phase project. In addition to the project manager, the
unit would now include five expatriate technical specialists (see para 5.06)
and seven middle level Nigerien forestry officers (see para 5.05). The
project would provide office accommodation, vehicles, equipment and furniture
and would also include accounting and audit services, consultants for studies,
office and other operating facilities and staff travel.
C.   Project Implementation
4.26      Project activities would begin in January 1982 and these would
involve the continuation of the ongoing project as well as reconnaissance
surveys and training of personnel for the rural forestry component. It
is foreseen that these activities would be financed under PPF. Procuremenit
procedures for machinery and vehicles would be initiated in the first half
of 1982 so that they could be delivered towards the end of the year. Imple-
mentation of activities directly related to forestry operations would be
as follows:



- 23 -
Component                     PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY 5       Total
Industrial irrigated
Tree Plantations
Management (ha)               240    240    240    240    240           240
Plantations in Irrigated
Agricultural Perimeters
(Equivalent ha)
Land Preparation and
Planting                      40      40     40      40     40         200
Maintenance                    40      80    120    160    200          200
State Managed Rainfed
Tree Plantations (ha)
Management
(Existing Plantations)       500    150       -      -       -        650
Fire-break
(Existing Plantations)       265    615    765    765    765          765
Land Preparation and
Planting
(new plantations)            300    300    300    300    300        1,500
Maintenance and
Fire-break
(new plantations)            300    600    900  1,200  1,500        1,500
State Managed Gum Arabie
Plantations
Land Preparation and
Planting                     150    150    150    150    150          750
Maintenance (Plantations)    150    300    450    600    750            750
Maintenance
(Natural stands)           6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000        6,000
Natural Forest Management  2,000  4,000  6,000  6,000  6,000          6,000
Rural Forestry (No. of new
mini-nurseries)                -    150    250    600    500         1,500
D. Project Cost Estimates
4.25      The cost of the project, including management of the operations
established under the Pilot Forestry and Technical Assistance Project,
is estimated at CFAF 4.5 billion or US$16.8 million of which US$7.9 million
(about 47%) are foreign exchange costs. The costs are summarized below and
total and unit costs per component detailed in table IV(1-14) of Annex 2.



NICER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Summary of Project Costs   Recapitulatif des coûts du Projet
CFAF Million                          IIS$ Million
Share of          Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total         Local      Foreign      Total         Total Costs         Exchange
1.   Forestry Operations/ Operations forestiéres
1.1  Infrastructure'Infrastructure                               72.3        38.9        111.2          0.3         0.1         0.4              2                35
1.2 Equipment and Vehicles / Equipement
et véhicules                                               73.1       258.7        331.8          0.3         1.0         1.5             7                 78
1.3 Field Forestry Works/ Travaux Forestiers
-  Inputs/Approvisionnements                              14.2      162.7        176.9           0.1         0.6         0.7             4                 92
-  Operating Costs / Frais de fonctionnement             171.3      140.1        311.4           0.6         0.5         1.1             7                45
-  Seasonal Labor /Main-d'oeuvre saisonniere             339.5         -         339.5           1.3          -          1.3             8
-  Permanent Staff/ Personnel permanent                   86.7                    86.7           0.3          -          0.7             4
1.4 Civil Servants and Support Staff /
Fonctionnaires et auxiliaires                             192.5         -          192.5          0.7          -          0.7             4
1.5 Expatriates and Consultants /Expatriés
et consultants                                              -           6.0          6.0           -           -           -              -                100
1.6  Other Operating Costs /Autres frais de
fonctionnement général                                    113.8        42.1        155.9          0.4         0.2         0.6             3                27
Subtotal/sous-total                           1 063.4       648.5      1 711.9          4.0         2.4         6.4            37                 38
2.   Institution 'trengthening and Pro ject Unit/
Renforcement des Institutions et Direction
du projet
-  Infrastructure/Infrastructure                          60.1        32.4         92.5          0.2         0.1         0.3             2                35
-  Vehicles and Equipment/Vehicules et
equipement                                           54.8       194.5        249.3           0.2         0.7        0.9              5                78
-  Permanent Labor / Main-d'oeuvre permanent              30.3         -          30.3           0.1          -          0.1             1
-  Civil Servants and Support Staff /
Fonctionnaires et auxiliaires                       130.6          -         130.6          0.5           -         0.5              3
-  Expatriates snd Consultants / Expatriés
et consultants                                         -        575.0        575.0            -         2.2         2.2             13               100
-  Other Operating Costs / Autres frais
de fonctionnement général                           220.0        81.3        301.3          0.8          0.3         1.1             7                27
Subtotal/ sous-total                           495.8       883.2      1.379.0          1.8         3-3         5.1            31                 64
Refunding PFF  Remboursement PPF               (37.4        53.2         90.6)        t0.2         0.2         0.4)          < 2)                59
Total Base Coasts / Total des couts          1.559.2    1 531.7       3 090.9          5.8         5.7       .11.5            68                 50
3.   Contingencies 1 Imprevus
-  Physical/Physiques                                    111.9        95.2       207.1           0.4         0.3         0.7             5                 46
-  Price / Hausse des prix                              715.4       510.6      1.226.0           2.7         1.9         4.6            27                 42
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS/COUT  TOTAL DU PROJET 2.386.5    2 137.5          4.524.0          8.9         7.9        16.8           100.0               47



- 25 -
4.28      Project costs have been calculated net of all identifiable taxes
and duties. Government policy is to exempt rural development projects from
duties and taxes and this project would also benefit from such exemption and
this was confirmed prior to negotiations. Unit costs are based on prices and
quotations during appraisal in early June 1981. Total costs include physical
contingencies equal to 10% of estimated costs for civil works, equipment,
inputs, seasonal labor and operating costs. The allowance for expected price
increase over the five years of the project is about 37% of base costs plus
physical contingencies. This was obtained by compounding foreign price
increases at 4.5% for second half of 1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-1985
and 6% for 1986, expatriate staff costs at 10% for 1981 and 9% thereafter, and
local price increases at 13% for 1981 and 10%/year for 1982-1986. The average
cost per expatriate is estimated at US$100,000 of which about US$75,000
represents salaries and benefits. The average cost of consultant services is
also estimated at US$12,000 per man-month including benefits and subsistence.
E.   Proposed Financing
4.29      The proposed financing plan would be based on the following:
(a)  FAC would provide three expatriates (workshop manager, researcher
and technical adviser) valued at about US$1.6 million or 10% of
total costs.
(b)  CCCE would finance through a credit, the terms and conditions
of which are yet to be negotiated, about US$ 3.6 million or 21% of
total costs.
(c)  The Niger Government would pay salaries of civil servants and
support staff including 50% of the salaries of the rural forestry
"animateurs" (US$1.0 million). The revenues from sales of forest
products from the plantation of the first project to be maintained
under the second project (conservatively estimated at US$0.3 million
would be earmarked to the project and used to pay part of other
operating costs (12.5%) and an assurance to this effect was obtained
at negotiations). Assurances were also obtained at negotiations
that salaries of support staff and the part of operating costs and
extension services being financed by Niger would be appropriated in
the "Fonds National d'Investissement (FNI)". The total Niger contri-
bution including receipts from forest products sales, would amount
to about US$1.5 million or 9% of total costs.
(d)  IDA would finance the remaining project costs amounting to about
US$10.1 million or 60% of total costs.
4.30      The summary of the proposed financing plan by category of expendi-
ture would be as follows.



- 26 -
NIGER
FAC     CCCE      IDA     Govt        Total
---------------US$ million---------------
1.  Civil Works                   -       0.2      0.5        -         0.7
2.  Equipment                     -       0.6      1.5        -          2.1
3.  Field Forestry works          -       1.0      2.4        -          3.4
4. Civil Servants and
Support Staff              -         -        -       0.8         0.8
5. Rural Forestry
"Animateurs"               -         -       0.2      0.2         0.4
6. Expatriates and
Consultants               1.2        -       0.9       -          2.1
7.  Other Operating Costs         -       0.4      1.0       0.2        1.6
8.  Refunding PPF                 -        -       0.4        -         04
Total Base costs            1.2       2.2      6.9      1.2        11.5
Contingencies               0.4       1.4      3.2      0.3         5.3
1.6      3.6    10.1       1.5        16.8
Percentage %               10        21       60        9         100%
Foreign costs               1.6       1.4      4.9       -          7.9
Local costs                   -       2.2      5.2      1.5         8.9
Meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE credit,
and agreement with FAC for the appointment of the technical adviser, would be
conditions of effectiveness.
4.31      Project Preparation Facility (PPF):  to bridge the gap between the
first and second projects in the first part of 1982, it was necessary that the
Government request an advance under PPF to meet the expenses of the first
four months of project execution.  Therefore, the Governnent has applied for
an advance from the PPF of US$360,000 which IDA has agreed to make available
by letter dated January 7, 1982. These funds to be used under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA would be to finance forestry works that would
need to be done in the first half of the year, some light vehicles, and
operating costs of the project unit and the expatriates who would be financed
under the IDA credit.
4.32      Project Working Fund.  By their nature, forestry works in the Sahel
need to follow a precision timetable as a result of a very short preparation
and planting period (4 to 6 weeks) determined by the rains. Thus for optimal
plantation results, delays have to be avoided when the rains begin. To ensure
then that plantation works are carried out immediately when needed, an initial
special working fund of US$400,000 to prefinance operating expenditures would
be established. This special account would be set up by Government and the
initial amount to be deposited by IDA (US$300,000) would represent its share
of estimated quarterly operating expenditures. CCCE has indicated its will-
ingness to also contribute to the revolving fund once its participation is
confirmed and would provide the additional US$100,000. This procedure would
be similar to that adopted in the First Niger Forestry Project (Cr. 800-NIR)



- 27 -
that worked very well and was to a large extent responsible for the initial
success of the project in getting the forestry districts operational. It was
also adopted for all the sahelian forestry projects - Upper Volta (CR. 982-UV),
Mali (CR. 883-MLI) and Senegal (CR. 1103-SE). The special account would be
managed by the Project Director and the head of the finance and administration
of the project. A Project Account would also be opened by Government for
handling Government's contribution. Opening of the accounts as well as
Government's payment of its initial deposit of CFAF 10 million (US$37,000)
representing its estimated quarterly contribution to project operating costs
and salaries of support staff would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the project's Government
account would be replenished at least quarterly on the basis of supporting
documentation for expenditures incurred and cash forecasts made by project
management in order to have sufficient funds to meet project expenditures for
the following six months. IDA would replenish the working fund upon receipt
of evidence of disbursements from the special account for allowable expenses.
Should any disbursements be made from the special account that are not accept-
able to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount into this
account. Assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
F. Procurement and Disbursement
4.33      Procurement.  Procurement of machinery, vehicles and equipment
to be financed under the credit (US$ 2.1 million) that are similar in nature
and time of purchase, would be grouped in packages of over US$100,000 where
possible and would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. ICB is expected to cover
about US$1.9 million. Domestically manufactured goods, under ICB, would be
allowed a preference of 15%, or the applicable level of import duties which-
ever is lower. Contracts for these items less than US$100,000 but for more
than US$25,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding proce-
dures advertised locally and contracts for less than US$25,000 would be
procured by direct shopping on the basis of at least three quotations. These
local procurement procedures permit foreign participation through local
agents. All equipped tractors and dumper trucks (US$0.9 million) would be
financed under the-CCCE credit. Services of expatriates and consultants
(US$2.9 million) of which US$1.0 million to be financed by IDA would be
obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Field forestry
works (total of US$5.4 million of which US$3.8 million to be financed by IDA)
are customarily executed by Forestry Departments (force account) and represent
their major operational function and would be done directly by the project
unit. From experience, because of their location and small size, contracts for
civil works, houses, offices and workshops (a total of US$1.0 million of which
US$0.7 million would be financed by IDA), would not be attractive to inter-
national contractors and would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally. The remaining project costs (US$ 2.4 million of which
US$1.7 million financed by IDA) would involve: (a) wages, salaries and
allowances, (b) operating costs of machinery, equipment, vehicles and offices,
(c) scholarships and training and would not be suitable for competitive
bidding.



- 28 -
4.34      Disbursement.  Disbursement estimates are based on the experience
of the pilot project where actual disbursements have averaged about 75% of
appraisal forecast. These estimates also take account of disbursement perfor-
mance of other IDA agricultural and rural development projects in Niger. The
IDA credit of US$9.8 million would be disbursed over five years under the
following categories.
US$ million
Category I         70% of civil works costs                          0.7
Category II        100% of the equipment costs not
including purchase of equipped
tractors and dumper trucks
(70% of total equipment costs)                 1.9
Category III       70% of field forestry works
including inputs, operating costs,
seasonal and permanent labor                   3.0
Category IV        100% of expatriate and consultant
services excluding
those provided by FAC                          1.0
Category V         50% of the salaries of rural
forestry "animateurs" 1/                       0.3
Category VI        63% of all project operating
costs not directly related to
the field forestry works                       1.4
Category VII      Working fund                                      0.3
Category VIII     Refunding of PPF                                  0.4
Category IX        Unallocated                                      1.1
10.1
Applications for credit withdrawals would be fully documented except for
applications under Categories III and VI. Given that these categories may
involve small purchases and payments for services involving small amounts,
withdrawals under these two categories (III and VI) would be against statements
of expenditures, the supporting documentation for which would be kept by the
project unit for verification by the independent auditor financed under the
project (para 4.36), and reviewed by IDA supervision missions.
1/   100% in PY1 and PY2; 55% in PY3; 25% in PY4; and 0% in PY5.



- 29 -
G. Accounts, Audits and Reports
Accounts and Audits
4.35      The Project Unit would keep separate accounts for the Project,
maintained in accordance with acceptable accounting practices to reflect the
operations and financial position of the Project. The accounts would be kept
by the administration and finance division of the Project Unit to be headed by
a financial specialist to be financed by the project who would also be respon-
sible for ensuring an adequate internal control system. The accounts of the
first project were adequately kept with the help of ONAHA's accountant and by
a junior accountant employed by the project. However the size of the second
project requires the services of a full time accountant who would be appointed
under the project.
4.36      All Project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and the IDA credit would finance the audit fees.
Audited financial statements and reports, of such scope and in such detail as
IDA may reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of each financial year. The auditors' report would include a statement on
the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, the operation of
the working fund, and as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their
intended purpose together with a confirmation that summary statements of
expenditure correctly reflect detailed records kept by the Project Unit.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Reports
4.37      The Project Unit would submit a semi-annual report on the physical
progress of the Project within two months of the end of each semester. The
reports would be similar to those submitted under the pilot project which were
adequate and the reports may be modified from time to time to include such
performance indicators as would be determined in the course of the Project's
supervision by IDA. Such reports would also include interim cash-flow state-
ments for previous quarters and projections for the remaining quarters of the
financial year as well as results of project performance by the monitoring and
evaluation system to be established under the Project (para 5.08). Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management
5.01      A Project Unit was established within the Forestry Department
to implement and monitor project activities of the First Forestry Project
(Cr. 800-NIR). The unit has proved to be effective and would be maintained
to implement the second project. To increase the efficiency of the Unit



- 30 -
an administrative and financial specialist and a workshop manager would be
added to the project management team of Project Director, his technical
advisor and the irrigation engineer (Genie Rural specialist) in charge of
the irrigated plantations. A forestry researcher would also be attached to
INRAN to work with both INRAN and the Project Unit on forestry research.
Under the general supervision of the Forestry Department Director, the Project
Unit would be responsible for planning, implementing and monitoring all
project activities, and providing support and guidance to the forestry
districts that would be involved in implementation.
5.02      Activities directly carried out by the Unit would include the
maintenance and monitoring of the existing industrial irrigated tree planta-
tions and state managed rainfed tree plantations as well as the various
reconnaissance studies and surveys. All other project activities would be
carried out jointly by the Project Unit and the forestry districts. The Unit
would prepare an annual work program and budget which would be submitted to
the Forestry Department Director for approval, who would forward it before the
beginning of each financial year to IDA for its approval; an assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations. The first year work program was agreed
upon during appraisal. The Unit would be in close touch with the districts
to give them the support and technical advice needed and to assure quality
control. The organization and management of the plantations within the
irrigated agricultural perimeters and of research would be done by the Unit in
cooperation with ONAHA and INRAN respectively. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Project Unit and both ONAHA and INRAN would sign working
agreements defining the responsibilities of each in the operation of these two
project components (see paras 4.13 and 4.22).
5.03      The project headquarters would continue to be in Niamey and the
chiefs of the affected forestry districts would act as representatives of the
project in their districts, in agreement with the Forestry Department. The
Project Unit would be headed by a Nigerien forestry officer with qualifica-
tions and experience acceptable to IDA. The Government has nominated a new
project director to replace the former director who has left for further
studies. This new director is acceptable to IDA. He would be assisted by
expatriates (para 5.06) and middle level Nigerien foresters who would hold key
psitions in the state-managed rainfed plantations, rural forestry component,
and training.
B.   Staffing
5.04      A1l the key staff positions under the first project would be main-
tained (paras 2.04 and 5.01) and in addition, an administrative and financial
specialist, a workshop manager and a researcher, all expatriates, would be
recruited. A Nigerien forester would also be appointed and trained in
forestry economics to work with the forestry technical adviser in the Planning,
monitoring and economics studies unit. There would also be some middle level
Nigerien foresters appointed to be in charge of training, the rural forestry
and watershed management components. Given the recent increase in forestry,



- 31 -
graduates from IPDR ("Institut Pratique de Developpement Rural") at Kolo, no
major problems are expected in staffing the project. All key posts to be
filled by both Nigeriens and expatriates as well as all consultancies (see
para 5.07) would be by persons whose qualifications and experience are accept-
able to IDA and an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
5.05      Nigeien Professional Staff.  During the five year project period
an estimated eight additional Nigerien Forestry Officers (one level A/IEF and
seven level B/conseillers and controleurs) would be needed to fill the various
key project positions.
5.06      Expatriates.  To implement the project, three additional expat-
riates would be recruited over the project life. These would join two other
expatriates currently working under the first project and whose positions
would be maintained. The expatriate positions would be; forestry technical
adviser (5 years), genie rural engineer (2 years in charge of industrial
irrigation and 3 years in charge of wastershed management), finance and
administration specialist (5 years), forestry researcher (5 years), and
workshop manager (5 years).
5.07      Consultants.  The total consultant requirements of the project have
been estimated at 23 man-months over the project period; four man-months for
the rural forestry-survey (para 4.06); two man-months for wastershed manage-
ment survey (para 4.16), four man-months for improved woodstoves study
(para 4.24); six man-months for economic study (para 4.24); two man-months
for possible preparation of a follow-up project; and five man-months for
audits. It should be noted that consultants would only provide support for
the monitoring and economic studies unit and that most of the studies would
be done by the unit. During the project execution, local consultants would be
encouraged where they have sufficient qualifications and experience. The
consultant work done through the first project has also shown that volunteers
can be used at a cheaper cost and thus there is the possibility of reducing
per unit consultant costs and hence increasing the number of man-months if
necessary. All consultancies however would be carried out by experts whose
qualifications, experience and conditions of appointment are acceptable to IDA
and assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.08      The planning, monitoring and economic studies (PMES) unit of the
project would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating project perfor-
mance. The evaluation program would include a critical cost-benefit analysis
of the industrial irrigated and state-managed tree plantation components
especially of the first project. The unit would undertake ongoing evaluation
of farmers' responses to the rural forestry component and provide recommenda-
tions to project management for improving the implementation of the component,
if constraints develop. The unit would also coordinate closely with the
forestry researchers at INRAN to define a technical monitoring program for



- 32 -
all project activities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Unit would provide IDA with a detailed evaluation report on the project's
progress each six months. This would form part of the half yearly report to
be submitted by the Project Unit to IDA (para 4.37).
5.09      The PMES unit would prepare a project completion report within
six months of the completion of the project. The scope and format of the
monitoring process, semi-annual progress and evaluation reports would be
similar to that established under the Pilot Project. However any changes in
the format of these reports as well as the form of the final project comple-
tion report would be discussed and reviewed during early IDA supervision
missions. Assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantation.  Neem and Eucalyptus camal-
dulensis would be the main species to be planted over the 1,500 ha of state-
managed rainfed tree plantations to be established under the second project.
The management of these plantations is based on the first results of ongoing
rainfed tree plantations in Niger and in similar regions in the Sahel:
(a) a plantation life of 18 years after which trees would be
cut and the land cleared for replanting;
(b) cutting in the sixth, twelfth and eighteenth years.
On this basis, one average hectare of plantation would be expected to produce
conservatively 2.5 m3/ha/year of which about 80% would be fuelwood and 20%
building poles:
Fuelwood      Building Poles        Total
----------------in mJ/ha----------------
Year  6              12                3                15
Year 12              12               3                 15
Year 18              12               3                 15
36               9                 45
6.02      Rural Rainfed Tree Plantation.  Given the lack of sufficient data,
especially regarding rural population's motivation to participate in rural
tree plantations it is preferable to be conservative about production at this
stage. The management of the rural plantations would be theoretically the
same as for the state managed rainfed tree plantations though it is expected
that local tree species would be planted in addition to neem and Eucalyptus.
With correct maintenance it is judged that rural tree plantations would yield
at least 1.75 m3/ha/year of which about 90% of fuelwood and 10% of building
poles:



- 33 -
Fuelwood      Buildin& Poles        Total
----------------in m /ha----------------
Year  6              9.45           1.05              10.50
Year 12              9.45           1.05              10.50
Year 18              9.45           1.05              10.50
28.35           3.15              31.50
6.03      Tree plantations within irrigated agricultural perimeters.  Eucalyp-
tus camaldulensis is the main species to be planted in the agricultural irri-
gated perimeters. The management of these plantations is based on the first
results of ongoing experiments in Niger:
(a) a plantation life of twelve years after which trees would be
cut and the land cleared for replanting;
(b) cutting in the third, sixth, ninth and twelfth years.
On this basis, an average tree plantation within the irrigated agricultural
perimeters would be expected to produce 15-20 m3/ha/year of which 70% would
be fuelwood and 30% building poles. Using the minimum yield of 15 m3/ha/year
one obtains:
Fuelwood      Buildin  Poles        Total
-------------in m /ha---------------
Year  3              31.5            13.5              45
Year  6              31.5           13.5               45
Year  9              31.5            13.5              45
Year 12              31.5           13.5               45
126.0           54.0              180
6.04      Natural Forest Management.  Given the experimental nature of the
natural forest management component it is very difficult to postulate accurate
yield estimates at this stage and no production estimates have therefore been
made for this component. However if managed correctly, a natural sudano-
sahelian forest could yield 0.5 - lm3/ha/year over 30 years.
6.05      Gum Arabic.  For the most part, Gum arabic plants grow wild and
produce gum at 200 to 300 grams per tree/year. Few gum arabic stands are the
result of man made plantations but recent tests on creating such plantations
in Mali show that the yield per tree can go up to an average of 5 kgs/tree/year.
Since Gum Arabic plantations in Niger are a novelty we use a very conservative
yield estimate of plantation trees producing two to three times more than the
naturally growing trees. Thus for purposes of our economic analysis, a gum
yield estimate of 600 gm/tree/year is used, equivalent to 240 kg/ha/year. At
the end of their gum producing life(24 years ) the trees can also be used as
fuelwood with a volume of 12.5 m3/ha.



- 34 -
6.06      Total production (see Annex 2 Table 1).  Production of firewood
and building poles from the plantations in the irrigated perimeters would
start in PY3. For the rainfed plantations, production would start in PY6
with gum arabic production commencing in PY5. In PY10 when all the productive
components would be at full development total annual wood production would be
39,600 m3. This excludes an annual average wood production of about 11,000 m3
from the plantations of the first project, being maintained by this project,
and whatever incremental production results from the natural forest management
component. Overall about 80 percent of incremental wood produced through the
project would be used as firewood and 20% would be building poles. It is
expected that incremental fuelwood and building poles produced from planta-
tions would be sold mainly in nearby urban centres. Fuelwood and building
poles from the rural forestry component would be mainly used by the rural
population. Total gum arabic production at full development (PY 9) is expected
to be 180 tons from the new plantations, equivalent to about 30 percent of
normal Nigerien production, which represents slightly less than 2% of total
world output of gum arabic.
B.   Marketing
6.07      Markets. -The demand for fuelwood in Niger in 1981 is estimated at
some 4 million m3/year and is increasing at least at the rate of population
growth. No marketing problems are therefore expected for marketable project
output (including production from the first project) which would represent
at full development, less than 9% of current urban fuelwood demand. The
demand for fuelwood in the rural areas remains high and all the wood produced
in the rural forestry component is expected to be absorbed by the sector.
Any surpluses that the farmers would want to sell could be sold in the towns.
Building poles used in Niger have normally been from borassus palm but in
recent years due to the shortages of the borassus palm, building pole needs
are met either from local tree species, neem, or imported borassus palm from
Nigeria. Thus building poles from the project should find a ready market
especially given the recent shortages of poles.
6.08      Prices.  Traditionally, forest products in Niger have been con-
sidered free goods and the population can exploit them to meet all the needs
of their families. Persons willing to sell wood however have to obtain a
permit from the Forestry Department and the permit price is fixed per month
depending on the means of transportation (donkey, camel or truck). These
official tariffs then imply a stumpage fee of 35 CFAF per stere of about
240 kg or CFAF 0.15/kg (CFAF 70/m3 or US$0.26/m3) compared to a retail price
of about CFAF 24/kg (para 6.09).  There is no official permit fee fixed for
building poles and loggers then pay the fixed monthly charge for transporting
and selling both building poles and firewood.  There is also no official
permit fee for wood from plantations.  Many factors, however, go into the
pricing of wood at the retail level in Niger including distance, means of
transportation, profits, the season, type of wood, and the town. These
factors together with the method of wood sale in Niger, where firewood is



- 35 -
sold by fagot instead of by weight or standard volume, result in a con-
siderable spread in the price per kilo of firewood. Thus depending on which
of the factors is the most important, the retail price can vary from CFAF
10/kg to CFAF 35/kg. At the retail level, building pole prices range from
CFAF 500/pole to CFAF 2,750/pole depending on the type of pole. Borassus palm
poles are the most expensive since they are the most demanded. Eucalyptus and
Neem poles are not sold much on the market now, though where they do exist,
they can fetch up to about CFAF 2,000/pole. The producer price for gum arabic
has been fixed at CFAF 180/kg by Government and is sold on the world market
for around CFAF 360/kg.
6.09      Perhaps the best wood price indicator in Niger however is the price
per camel-load in Niamey which the Statistics Department of Niger uses in the
computation of its consumer price index. According to these price series then
the average retail price per kilo of wood was about CFAF 24.5 in the first
half of 1981. 1/ The price per camel-load has increased from an average of
about CFAF 600 in 1973 to CFAF 2,650 in 1981, reflecting the increasing
scarcity of wood especially in Niamey. These price increases have not been
confined only to Niamey and have been reported in all the major towns.
6.10      Despite the real increases in fuelwood retail prices since 1973,
permit prices have not reflected the value of wood to the economy or the real
cost of increasing deforestation in the country. Permit prices have been
fixed at such a low level that the increases in retail prices have simply
represented increases in labor and transportation costs and especially profits
of wood traders. A clear forestry policy on trying to recuperate some of
these profits for reafforestation has been lacking. However given: (i) the
apparent spread in prices, (ii) the lack of a clear knowledge of the organiza-
tion of the wood market and the cost components involved in wood marketing,
and (iii) a lack of any well-defined means of surveillance by the Forestry
Department to make any stumpage fee increases effective, it is difficult to
propose an immediate stumpage fee increase. Nevertheless it is essential
that measures be taken to regulate the cutting of wood for sale through an
effective pricing mechanism. It is also essential that a price be fixed for
wood from plantations as well as responsibility given for its exploitation
(para 6.11).
6.11      It is proposed that the project would help Government define a
first step forestry price policy consistent with the objectives of encouraging
conservation of available fuelwood resources and of increasing the reafforesta-
tion effort. Thus during the first two years of the project, the Planning,
Monitoring and Economic Studies Unit would undertake a study into the organiza-
tion of the wood market and appropriate stumpage prices to be charged for wood
from plantations and natural forests. Assurances were therefore obtained
at negotiations, that (i) Government would fix an acceptable price for planta-
tion wood before December 1983, and (ii) Government would review in consulta-
tion with IDA, before December 1983, the permit fee for natural forest wood
with a view to increasing these fees to reflect the value of wood products
to the economy and to encourage wood conservation.
1/   Price per camel-load was CFAF 2,650 and average load about 0.45 steres
with 1 stere equal to 240 kg.



- 36 -
C. Government Cash Flow
6.12      The project would generate sufficient Government funds to finance
continuing project activities after the 5 year implementation period. After
being negative during the first two years, the cumulative cash flow after
debt service for both IDA and CCCE credits (including debt service for the
pilot project) would turn positive from year 3.  The cash flow is calculated
by including the costs of maintaining and receipts from the state-managed
rainfed and irrigated tree plantations of the first project.
6.13      Cash flow has been calculated in current prices through year 5
(1986), and in constant prices thereafter. In estimating cash flow it has
been assumed that for wood from plantations, the Forestry Department would
sell these at roadside prices. Taxes on gum arabic exports and on wood
cutting would bring little money to the Government. The permit fee has been
taken equal to its very low present value (CFAF 35/stere) and is taken to be
imposed on wood produced in the irrigated agricultural perimeters and from
the natural forests. It is assumed that wood from the rural forestry component
would not be taxed. Cash outflow would consist in debt service and in project
maintenance and operating costs, after the first five years of project imple-
mentation. These costs, required to maintain the project, would amount to
about CFAF 125 million/year (US$460,000) in 1986 prices, for the next 15
years.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
Direct Benefits
7.01      The direct benefits from the project would be threefold.  First,
the production from the irrigated and rainfed state-managed plantations would
provide fuelwood and building poles for both urban and rural households. Any
improvements that can be made in the productivity of the natural forests would
also provide increased fuelwood, building poles and minor forest products for
households as well as fodder for livestock. The project would increase
production of gum arabic by about 30 percent and hence the total exports of
gum from the country. These gum plantations would also provide firewood and
especially fodder for livestock.
7.02      Second, the gum and tree plantation activities would generate
employment and income in the rural areas both for those directly involved
in planting and plantation management and those involved in harvesting and
marketing of the products from the project. Over the five-year implementation
period the project is expected to generate about 1,500 man-years of direct
employment for unskilled labor. A large part of the employment generated by
planting activities as well as from harvesting and marketing would be unskiLlled



- 37 -
jobs and would benefit the poorer inhabitants in the project-region. The
rural forestry component and the plantations within irrigated agricultural
perimeters would provide additional income for farmers and the farmer groups
involved.
7.03      Third, the project would have significant beneficial agricultural
effects and these are twofold: (a) when planted as windbreaks, trees can
increase cereal yields by between 20-30% as happened in the Majjia valley (see
para 1.29); it is expected that in the rural forestry and irrigated perimeters
components most of the trees would be planted as windbreaks and these would
help increase yields on farmers fields; and (b) planting trees for fuelwood
and fodder avoids cutting already existing ones, especially gao trees that
are known to increase soil fertility and agricultural yields (paras 1.19 and
1.29); wood and fodder shortages are causing people to mutilate and cut down
gao trees (para 1.19) even though they know very well their fertilizing
effects. Hence a major benefit from the project would be to reduce such
illicit tree cutting and help preserve soil fertility.
Indirect benefits
7.04      The project would continue the institution building and strengthen-
ing process started under the first project. This would enable the Forestry
Department to plan, implement and monitor its work more effectively, an indis-
pensable learning process essential to encourage donors to invest more in the
forestry subsector. A major benefit of the project would be to help the
Governnent map out an effective pricing and tax policy for firewood and a
feasible substitution for firewood policy to avoid future over-exploitation
of forestry resources. The project would improve the knowledge about the
responsiveness of rural populations to large scale afforestation schemes, and
expose them to tree planting as a necessary part of their agro-sylvicultural
system. This is especially important since any sustained reafforestation
effort in Niger would have to have the support and participation of the rural
people. The project would also provide better knowledge about the effective-
ness of irrigated tree plantations in Niger in particular and in the Sahel
in general. This knowledge would be very useful given the lack of suitable
technical packages for re-afforestation in Sahelian countries. The project
would help test new forestry production and management techniques through the
applied research and natural forest management components and therefore help
improve forestry technical packages available to the country.
B. Economic Analysis and Rates of Return
7.05      Economic rates of return have been calculated for some of the
directly productive components (44% of project costs), where benefits can be
quantified with a reasonable degree of certainty. Economic benefits have been
taken as the production of firewood, building poles and gum arabic. Other
benefits such as the beneficial effects on agricultural production, increased
livestock fooder have not been quantified. Based on assumptions given below,
the economic rates of return are as follows:



- 38 -
% of project 1/
Rates of return        costs
Tree plantations in agricultural
irrigated perimeters                   35.0                 6 %
State-managed rainfed tree
plantations                            10.1                17 %
Rural tree plantations                   13.9                12 %
Gum arabic plantations                   10.9                 9 %
Total                                    13.9                44 %
1/   Includes a part of project management costs attributable to
these components.
7.06      Taking into account other benefits, such as beneficial effects on
soil fertility and fodder production, would increase these rates, particularly
those of the state-managed rainfed and rural tree plantations. The rates of
return for the state-managed plantations, as calculated, are understandably
low but these plantations do provide a very useful learning experience for
forestry staff and represent an effort to turn state-owned land to productive
use that would provide an assured supply of fuelwood and gum arabic, benefits
not reflected by these rates of return. The main assumptions used in the
economic analysis are as follows:
(a)  The economic roadside price for firewood is derived by subtracting
the marketing margin, transport and loading/unloading costs, from
the Niamey retail price. The standard conversion factor for Niger
is estimated at 0.85 and this has been applied to the roadside price
as well as all non-traded inputs (except for labor) to convert
them to border prices. The calculated growth rate of the Niamey
retail price for firewood in real terms during 1973-81 is 5.2%. It
is assumed that it would continue to increase annually at this rate
for the next 10 years;
(b)  Buildîng pole prices were derived from border prices of imported
borassus palm from Nigeria allowing a 25 percent penalty on neem
and Eucalyptus poles to reflect the quality differential of borassus
palm. The real price of building poles is aiso assumed to increase
at 5.2% p.a. for the next 10 years;
(c)  The economic ex-warehouse price Lor gum arabic is derived from the
FOB Cotonou price. The international price for gum arabic dropped
substantially after the 1973/74 boom and has remained steady since
1975/76. Therefore, it has been assumed that tha price will remain
constant in real terms during the project life: benefits are cal-
culated only for the plantations;



- 39 -
(d)  The other main assumptions are:  (i) for all the components except
the gum arabic plantation, an opportunity cost of unskilled labor of
CFAF 300 (US$l.11) per manday during the dry season and CFAF 800
(USS2.96) during the rainy season; (ii) for the gum arabic. :lantation,
since cultivation is not possible in this area, a flat opportunity
cost of unskilled labor of CFAF 300/day; and (iii) an economic life
of 18 years for tree plantations, 12 years for irrigated plantations
and 24 years for gum arabic plantations.
C. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
7.07      Given the lack of suitable technical packages for re-afforestation
in Sahelian countries, the harsh climate, and the newness of large scale
tree plantations in Niger, the project necessarily involves some risks, in
almost all the components. The project design and assumptions on yields have
been made in such a way as to minimize these risks. The most risky component
is the rural tree plantations.  Its switching value at 10% discount rate is
19% in reduced benefits or 24% in increased costs. But, rather than a higher
cost or a lesser benefit, the risk is that the rural population would be
unwilling to participate in the operation. Therefore, and although the Niger
small farmer environment seems-to be quite receptive to re-afforestation
operations, a cautious and flexible approach would be used in this component.
Particular attention would be paid to the incentives to be provided and to
sociological aspects of such a scheme including monitoring and evaluating
farmers' responses to the woodlots in order to correct any constraints that
develop (para 5.08). Other components face only minor risks in terms of
reduced benefits or increased costs. Yield expectations are based on best
estimates though given the newness of forestry operations in the country the
lowest known yields under similar project conditions have been used and cost
estimates are based on actual costs of past planting. But as already men-
tioned, the calculated rates of return do not capture other benefits such as
agricultural and livestock benefits.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
on the following principal points:
Financial Conditions
(a) within the rural rainfed tree plantation component, plastic bags
used to grow seedlings would be sold to the rural population at a
price which is not higher than their cost to the Borrower (para
4.05)* ;



- 40 -
(b) revenues from the sales of forest products from the plantations
of the first project would be earmarked to the project to pay
part of its operating co8ts (para 4.29);
(c) salaries of support staff and part of operating costs to be
financed by Niger would be approprlated in the "Fonds National
d'Investissement" (FNI) (para 4.29);
(d) the project's Government account would be replenished at least
quarterly on the basis of supporting documentation for expen-
ditures and should any disbursements be made from the Project
working fund not acceptable to IDA, Government would deposit
the corresponding amount into this account (para 4.32);
(e) all project accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and audited financial statements
and reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of each financial year (para 4.36);
(f) the project unit would provide IDA with; (i) annual work programs
and budgets, through the Forestry Department Director, before the
beginnîng of each financial year (para 5.02), and (ii) a half
yearly physical and financial project progress and evaluation
report within two months of the end of each semester (paras 4.37
and 5.08);
(g)  Government would fix an acceptable permit price for wood from
plantations and review, in consultation with IDA, the permit fee
for natural forest wood with a view to increasing the fees to
reflect the value of wood products to the economy, all before
December 1983 (para 6.11);
Operational Conditions
(h)  the project unit and ONARA would sign a working agreement,
defining the responsibilities of each in the execution of the 1:ree
plantations within the agricultural irrigated perimeters before
disbursements are made for the component (para 4.13) and within the
framework of the agreement, would work to establish by December
1983, a mechanisa for recovering the cost of plantation establishment
either through collecting part of woodsales or collecting part of
the wood for sale (para 4.15);
(i)  the project unit and INRAN would enter into an agreement acceptable
to IDA to follow a research program appropriate to project needs and
the long-term requirements of the sector (paras 4.22 and 5.02); and
(j)  all key posts to be filled by both Nigeriens and expatriates as
well as consultancies would be by persons whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA (paras 5.04 and 5.07).



- 41 -
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CCCE credit and agreement with FAC for appointment of the forestry
technical adviser (para 4.30);
(b)  opening of the project special account and Governnent account
and payment by Government of an initial deposit representing its
estimated quarterly contribution to project costs (para 4.32).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.1 million.



-42 -                               Annex 1
Page 1
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Responsibilities of Project Management
The Project Manager, assisted by the Project Management team will
be responsible for overall project execution and specifically perform the
functions and responsibilities outlined hereunder for the purpose of the
Project:
(a)  preparation of annual work programs, management and half yearly
reports and annual budgets;
(b) entering into agreements with ONAHA, and through ONAHA, with
farmers and farmer groups for the implementation of the
plantations within irrigated agricultural perimeters;
(c) entering into agreement with INRAN and defining with the latter
the applied research program to be followed, taking into account
both the research needs of the project and the long term research
program of INRAN and the terms of reference of the chief researcher;
(d)  maintaining a constant dialogue with INRAN's research division on
the technical aspects of the project;
(e)  planning, coordinating and monitoring the technical and financial
aspects of all project components including all works executed by
force account. It would prepare tender documents, evaluate the
resulting bids and proceed with orders for construction works to be
contracted as well as the purchase of equipment, supplies, machinery
and vehicles;
(f) coordinating with the management of the forestry and land-use
planning.project financed by the USAID to define areas of of coopera-
tion especially in the natural forest management component of the
project;
(g) planning, coordinating and monitoring the activities-of consultants
responsible for surveys and complementary studies under the Planning,
Monitoring and Economic studies (PMES) unit of the project and
making recommendations, through the Forestry Department Director,
for improving formulation of forestry policy in Niger;
(h) utilising the results and recommendations made through the studies
and surveys of the PMES unit to improve project design and implemen-
tation;
(î) preparing implementation schedules for, and supervision at regular
intervals of all project components to be executed through the
forestry districts;



- 43 -                             Annex 1
Page 2
(j) maintenance of consolidated Project accounts and preparation
and submission of financial stastements to IDA at the end of each
fiscal year;
(k) preparation and submission of half yearly progress reports (and a
project completion report) to IDA including an ongoing evaluation of
all project components with special emphasis on the rural forestry
component, the industrial irrigated tree plantations and the state-
managed rainfed tree plantatisons;
(1)  following closely the rural forestry component of the project,
and through the monitoring unit undertaking an on-going evaluation
of farmers' responses to the family woodlot approach to be able to
early identify and alleviate constraints that may develop; and
(m) ensuring, through the Forestry Department, that the provisions
of the forestry code are well understood by both local foresters and
farmers.



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Total Costs per year and per Component / Coûts totaux annuels par composante
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total               Contingencies/Imprévus                      Total
PY/AP    PY/AP    PY/AP    PY/AP    PY/AP    aelorze Contingencies            Physical            Price           after Contingencies
1        2         3         4         5           Avant imprévus          Physiques       Hausse des Prix         Après imprévus
1.  Industrial Irrigated Tree         56.1      51.8      62.0      84.7    67.8                    322.4             25.7              140.3                   488,4           1.  Plantations forestières
Plantations                                                                                                                                                                     irrigunes industrielles
2.  Tree Plantations in Agri-                                                                                                                                                    2.  Plantations forestières
cultural Irrigated              17.7      14.8      22.4      22.7    18.8                     96.4             8.9                42.3                   147.6                  peri;etres hydroagricoles
Perimeters
3.  Old State Managed Rainfed           4.6       1.5       4.2       5.5     2.5                    18.3              1.8                 8.5                   28.6            3.  Anciennes plantatione
iree Plantations                                                                                                                                                                forestières en sec en régie
4.  New State Managed Rainfed         101.1      59.1      61.8      73.5    61.8                   357.3             34.1               143.9                   535.3           4.  Nouvelles plantations
Tree Plantations                                                                                                                                                                 forestieres en sec es régie
5.  Gum Arabic Plantations             79.8      32.0      33.3      49.6    33.4                   228.1             21.1                86-3                   335.5           5.  Coeraies
6.  Rural Forestry                     48.5      43.9     47.1      81.9    73.7                    295.1             17.2               133.2                  4455             6.  Foresterie rurale
7.  Natural Forest Management          12.7      11.9      15.2     17.0    13.1                     69.9              5.5                31.6                   107.0           7.  AénagNent forét naturelle
8.  Watershed Management                -         -         8.9     51.2    47.1                    107.2              9.7                66.2                   183.1           8.  Défense et Restauration dus
Sols/Conservation des
Eaux du Sol (DUS/CES)
9.  Bushfire Control                  112.1      43.2      17.7     26.0    18.2                    217.2             18.8                64.3                   300°3           9.  Lutte contre les feux
10.  Training                           60.4      26.9      23.9     26.5    23.9                    161.6             13.6                60.4                   235.6          10.  Formation
11.  Assistance to Research             36.2      32.0      32.0     36.2    32.0                    168.4              4.9                65.2                   238.5          11.  Appui    la recherche
12. Planning & Monitoring linit         61.3    48. 5      54.3      55.3    36.3                    255.5              5.4                93.4                  354.3          12.  Unité d'études et de suivi
13.  Project Unit & Common             194.9    138.3    228.3    123.7   108.3                      793.5             40.4               290.4                 1 124.3          13.  Direction projet et Services
Services                                                                                                                                                                          co_uns
Total before Contingencies   785.4    503.7    611.1    653.8   536.9                      3 090.9            207.1              1 226.0                4 524.0                 Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies          59.1     29.9      39.8      44.4    33.9                    207.1                                                                              imprévus physiques
Price Contingencies           129.0    139.6    242.7    346.4   368.3                     1 226.0                                                                              Imprévus pour bausse des pre
Total after Contingencies    973.5    673.2    893.6   1044.6   939.1                       4524.0                                                                             Total après imprévus
a |
a



- 45 -
NIOER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOD PROJET FORESTIER
Total C_tr Par Year asd Par Catxgory of Expenditure/
CoOts Totaux Annuels par Categoria do Dépe.se                                                                                                M        2
(CFAF/FCFA Millibe)                                                                                                          T&bl-T«bl«a   Il
REpatriara              Orter
C...sulranrs/       Oeeeatosg Custc/
Enirasreuotrec/      Equipmcnt/                                          PFrestry Wours/                                       Local Supervisory Staff/          Expatriés            Autres te fri  d       Total
Infraxtructura        Equipencxt                                       Trxvauu  Porextierr                                         Exc dre-ent Louai             Co..ultanrt          fonotixnsmaxt
Pernanset       ~~Civil            Support
Ixpute and Mic...         e   . Irsoo  Isbas»  oparting Costis'        Stof,             lorvoxto/            Staff i
App-ovicioxuexoxts       Main d'Oeuvr             P F-ri  de         Personnel        F..ctio..aire-       Auxiliaires
et divers            saie.soicrc         foncctionxnamt        pernxxnst
l.   IWestricl Irrigated Tre-  PIxstatio.c/
Plastaties   restieresi gu ir dustrielles                          28.2              57.4                  -                    20E0                  137.4               4R.8               8.9                 2.2              O.û                   13.5             322,4
2.   Tracs Plantations in Agricultural Irrigtred perîxetear
Perigeters/ Plxtxti.se  forestierex hydroagriuoles                 -                20.4                7.5                   26.7                    20.0                4.2                p-                 3.5              Ps                    14.1               9.4
3.   Old Stat-M..anaged Rxinfed Trac PIsstatios./
Anîiennes plantaîtios foreStieres ex . c.  en régie                 -                                      -                    i5.4                    2.9                 p-                p.                   p.              p-                     p-              18.3
4.   Ne  State-Managed eciefcd Trac Plcsratiot s/
Nouvelles plastatione forsctieres en            -gc en reic         -                56.4               58o5                   122.5                   77.9               10.3                pm                 6.6              pm                    25.1             357.3
5.  GO  Arbic  Plîststio.s / oseseies                                     9.0               56.4               36.0                   54.9                    29.7               10.4                p.                 6.6              pm                    25.1            238,1
6     sR-al Forestry /Forestric rurale                                    6.0               32.4               63.6                   31.0                      -                  -               14.2               108.5              p-                    39.4            293.1
7.   Naturai Forest Management / Asiéscgcncst forêt
naturelle                                                           6.0               8.2                  -                   24.0                     7.2                                 12.                  2.4              p-                     9.9              69.9
8.   Waterhed M.snagemet/ Defense et restsuration
dse sols,  orserverise des eaux, eaux du sol
(DRS/CES)                                                         10.0               1985               11.3                   45.0                     3.8               10                4.5                 4.8              pm                     8.3             107.2
9    Bushfir- Control/  urtte contre les feux                            52.0               82.1                 -                      pn                   32.S                12.0              13.7                 4.4              pm                    20.5            217.2
10.  Tr-ining/Foumatio-                                                  50.0                9.9                 -                      -                      -.                  -               12.0                13.5              Ps                   76.2             161.6
11.  Assist.... to Re.eerch/ Appui a Ia recherche                           -               13.4                 -                       -                      -                  -                 pm                13.8           10'.0                    36.2             168. 4
12.  Planing axd Monitoring Unit / Uité d'etudes
et de suivi                                                          -                14.0                 _                      _                      _                  -                8.0                13.6           180.0                    39.9             255.5
13.  Projeut Unit and C-eSo SerYlces / Direction
projet et Services . o. xu. c                                      42.5             212.0                  -                      _                                       30.3              23.0                46.7           290.0                   149.0             793.5
Total before Coosisgeeries / Total avant i.prevus                  203.7             581î 1             176.9                   33905                  31l.4              117.0              96.5               226.6           581.0                   457.2           3,090.9
Physicl CIpringesuies / Laprevue physiques                         20.4              58.1                17.7                   34.0                   31.2                  -                 _                   -               -                    45.7             207.1
Prise Costingenoies / Ixprevus pour heus.e dcx pris                 49.0              177.4              71.5                   181.2                  133.3               50.6              42.8                102.0          210.7                   207.5           1,226.0
T.t01 cfter Costganrfas / TEtel sprès lapravus                     273.1              816.6             266.                    554.7                  475.9              167.6             139.3                328.6          791.7                   710.4           4,524.0






NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Total Costs per Year and per Category of Expenditure
Coûts totaux annuels par categorie  de dépenses
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total              Contlingencies/Imprévus                    Total
PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   before Contingencies    Physica]                   .ricr            after ContLngencies
1        2        3        4        5        avant imprévus           Physiques   Hausse des prix            après imprévus
1.   Infrastructure                         162.6    7.7        7.6    20.2       5.6            203.7                 20.4            49.0                     273.1            1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipement                            235.1    61.3   131.8   133.9    19.0                  581.1                58.1           177.4                     816.6            2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                                              3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous           20.4    27.6    28.8    48.2    51.9                 176.9                 17.7           71.5                      266.1                 3.1  Approvisionnement et Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                  44.3      49.9    68.6    78.8    97.9                339.5                34.0           181.2                     554.7                  3.2  Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Opeating Costs                   54.2    60.3    64.0    65.6    67.3                 311.4                31.2           133.3                     475.9                  3.3  Frais de fonctionnement  a
3.4   Permanent Staff                  23.1    23.2    23.1    23.8    23.8                117.0                   -             50.6                     167.6                  3.4  Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                                                     4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                   16.9    18.4    19.9    20.7    20.6                  96.5                  -             42.8                      139.3                 4.1  Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                    32.7    47.2    48.7    49.0    49.0                 226.6                  -            102.0                      328.6                 4.2  Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants           122.2   116.2    122.2   116.2   104.2                581.0                  -            210.7                      791.7            5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                   73.9    91.9    96.4    97.4    97.6                457.2                 45.7          207.5                      710.4            6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before  Contingencies          785.4   503.7    611.1   653.8   536.9              3,                    207 1         1.226.0                    4,524.0                   Total avant imprévus
Da
c



NIER
SECOND FORESTPY PROJECT  / SECOSfl r0Jgf FORESTIER
Rural Forestry / Foresterie Rurale
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1             2              3            4               5          before Contingencies /
PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/AP        PY/AP           PY/AP             avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                        6.0            -             -             -              -                     6.0                    1.   Infrastructure
2.  Equipment                             19.2            -             -            13.2            -                    32.4                    2.   Equipement
3.  Forestry Works                                                                                                                               3.  Travaux forestiers                        _
3.1  Inputs & Miscellaneous           -              7.2           8.4          24.0           24.0                  63.6                         3.1   Approvisionnement 4 Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                                                                   -                             -                            3.2   Main d' oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                 -             2.0           4.0          10.0            15.0                  31.0                         3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                        -              -             -             -                  -                                      3.4   Personnel permanent
4.  Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                      4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                  2.8           2.9            2,9           2.8            2.8                  14.2                         4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                  12.6          24.0           23.9          24.0           24.0                 108.5                         4.2   Auxiliaires
5.  Expatriates and Consultants            -              -             -             -              -                     -                      5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.  Other operating  Costs                 7.9            7.8           7.9           7.9            7.9                  39.4                   6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies           48.5          43.9           47.1          81.9           73.7                 295.1                         Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies          3.3    t      1.7            2.0          5.5             4.7                  17.2                               Imprévus physiques
Price Contingencies            8.1           12.5           19.3         43.2            50.1                 133.2                               Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies           59.9           58.1           68.4        130.6           128.5                 445.5                         Total après imprévus
e
î~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



NIGER
SECO2D FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Old State Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations
Anciennes Plantations forestières en sec, en regie
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1              2              3              4              5            before Contingencies
PY/AP          PY/AP          PY/AP           PY/AP          PY/AP            avant  imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                            -               -              -               -              -                       -                      1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                                         -                      -               -                                                             2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                         3'.  Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous              -              -               -              -               -                       -                           3.1   Approvisionneemnts & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                      3.0            0.9             4.0            5.3             2.2                    15.4                         3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                     1.6            0.6             0.2            0.2             0.3                     2.9                         3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                     -              -               -              -               -                                                   3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                                4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                      -               -              -              -               -                                                   4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                       -               -              -              -               -                       -                           4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants                -              -              -               -              -                                              5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                      -              -              -               -              -                                              6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies                4.6             1.5            4.2            5.5             2.5                    18.3                         Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies              0.5            0.1            0.4             0.5            0.3                     1.8                                Imprévus physiques
Price Contingencies                 0.8            0.5            1.9             3.3            2.0                     8.5                                Imprévus pour hausse des prix        C
Total after Contingencies                 5.9            2.1             6.5            9.3            4.8                     28.6                         Total apr;s imprévus



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT   SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
New State Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations
Nouvelles plantations forestières e' sec en régie
(million CFAFIFCFA)
Total
1             2             3            4               5           before Contingencies
PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/AP        PY/AP           PY/AP             avant izaprevus
1.   Infrastructure                                                                                                                                1.  Infrastructure
2.   Equipmlent                            44.7            -             -            11.7             -                     56.4                  2.  Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                3.  Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous          11.7           11.7          11.7          11.7.          11.7                   58.5                       3.1   Approvistonfemants & Divers
3.Z   Seasonal Labor                  23.2          24.2           25.0          25.1           25.0                  122.5                       3.2   Hain d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                 13.1          14.8           16.7          16.6           16.7                   77.9                       3.3   Frais de fonctionne.ent
3.4   Permanent Staff                  2.1           2.0            2.0           2.1            2.1                   10.3                       3.4   Personnel permanent
4    Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                       4.  Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                   -4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                    1.3           1.4            1.3           1.3            1.3                    6.6                       4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Cons..tants            -              _             _             _            . _5.  Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                  5.0            5.0           5.1           5.0             5.0                   25.1                  6.  Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Conti   ncies           101.1          59.1           61.8         73.5            61.8                  357.3                      Total avant imprivus
Physical rontingencies           9.8           5.6            5.9           7.0            5.8                   34.1                             Imprévus physiques                   ri p
Price Cit,tingencies            16.8          17.3           25.9         40.3            43.6                  143.9                             Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies            127.7          82.0           93.6        120.8           111.2                  535.3                       Total apras imprévus                       c



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Gum Arabic Plantations and Stands /
Gommeraies
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1              2               3              4                5            beftre Contingencies
PY/AP          PY/AP           PY/AP          PY/AP            PY/AP               avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                             4.5             -               -              4.5              -                        9.0                    1.  Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                                 44.7             -               -             11.7              -                       56.4                    2.  Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                             3.  Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous               7.2             7.2            7.2            7.2              7.2                     36.0                         3.1   Approvisionnements & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                     10.3            10.8            11.3           11.2             11.3                     54.9                         3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                      4.7            5.6              6.4           6.5              6.5                     29.7                         3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                      2.1            2.1              2.0           2.1              2.1                     10.4                         3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                                    4.  Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                       -              -               -              -                -                                                    4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                        1.3             1.3             1.3           1.4              1.3                       6.6                        4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants                -               -               -              -                -                        -                      5.  Expatries et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                      5.0             5.0             5.1            5.0              5.0                     25.1                    6.  Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies                79.8           32.0            33.3           49.6             33.4                    228.1                         Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies              7.6             2.9             3.0            4.6              3.0                     21.1                               Imprévus physiques                       Cr
Price Contingencies                13.1             9.2            13.9          26.7              23.4                     86.3                               Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies               100.5            44.1            50.2           80.9             59.8                    335.5                         Total après inprévus                           e
c0



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
- Iadustrial Irrigated Tree Plaatation /
Plantations Forestieres Irriguées Industrielles
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1             2             3             4              5           before Contingencies
PY/AP         PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/AP         PY/AP            avant imprevus
1.  Infrastructure                          5.6            5.7           5.6           5.7            5.6                 28.2                   1.  Infrastructure
2.  Equipment                               6.4            -             -             35.0          16.0                 57.4                   2.   Equipement
3.  Forestry Works                                                                                                                               3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1  Inputs & Miscellaneous            -              -             -             -              -                     -                         3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                   0.7            2.8          13.0           0.7            2.8                 20.0                        3.2   Ma-n d'oeuvre saisonniere
3.3   Operating Costs                 27.5           27.5          27.5          27.4           27.5                 137.4                        3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                  9.8            9.7           9.8           9.7            9.8                  48.8                       3.4   Personnel permanent
4.  Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                      4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                   1.8            1.8           1.7            1.8           1.8                    8.9                       4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                    0.4            0.4           0.5           0.5            0.4                   2.2                        4.2   Auxiliaires
5.  Expatriates and Consultants              1.2           1.2           1.2           1.2            1.2                   6.0                  5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.  Other Operating Costs                   2.7            2.7           2.7           2.7            2.7                   13.5                 6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies            56.1           51.8          62.0          84.7           67.8                  322.4                       Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies           4.3            3.9           4.9           7 1            5.5                  25 7                              Imprévus physiques
Price Contingencies              9 5           14.9          26.1          44.3           45.5                 140.3                             Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies             69.9           70.6          93.0          136.1         118.8                  488.4                       Total apres imprevus                     c
.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Tree Plantations in Agricultural Irrigated Perimeters
Plantations Forestières Perimetres Hydro - agricoles
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1              2               3               4               5             before Contingencies
PY/AP           PY/AP           PY/AP           PY/AP           PY/AP               avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                               -               -               _       -                        -                                                1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                                    5.8             1.5              5.8             5.8             1.5                     20.4                     2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                                 3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous                1.5              1.5             1.5             1.5             1.5                       7.5                          3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers                 9
3.2   Seasonal Labor                        5.1              5.2             5.3             5.5             5.6                      26.7                          3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                       2.5              3.5             4.4             4.7             4.9                      20.0                          3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                       0.6              0 9             0.9             0.9             0.9                       4.2                           3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                                        4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                        -                -               -               -                -                        _                            4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                          0.4             0.4             1.0             0.8              0.9                      3.5                           4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants                  -                                -               -                                         -                      5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                        1.8              1.8             3.5             3.5             3.5                     14.1                     6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies                 17.7             14.8            22.4            22.7             18.8                     96.4                           Total avant imprevus
Physical Contingencies               1.7              1.4             2.0             2.1              1.7                      8.9                                  Imprévus physiques
Price Contingencies                  3.0              4.4             9.2            12.4            13.3                      42.3                                  Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies                  22.4             20.6            33.6            37.2            33.8                     147.6                           Total après imprévus
c.
o



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Watershed Management / DRS / CES
(million CFAF/CFFA)
Total
1             2              3           4               5           before Contingencies I
PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/PA        PY/AP           PY/AP           avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                        -              -             -            10.0            -                    10.0                    1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                             -              -             4.4          14.1            -                    18.5                    2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                               3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1  Inputs & Miscellaneous           -             -              -             3.8            7.5                  11.3                         3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                  -             -              -            15.0           30.0                  45.0                         3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                 -             -               -            1.3            2.5                   3.8                         3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                 -             -              -             0.5            0.5          ]          0                         3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                      4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                  -             -              1.0           1.8            1.7                   4.5                         4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                   -             -              1.3           1.7            1.8                   4.8                         4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants           -              -             -             -              -                                            5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                 -              -             2.2           3.0            3.1                   8.3                   6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Cgntingencies                           -             8.9          51.2           47.1                 107.2                         Total avant imprevus
Physical  Contingencies         -             _              0.7          4j7             4.3                   9.7                               Imprévus physiques
Price  Contingencies          . _                           3.5          28.1            34.6                 66.2                                Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies             -             -             13.1         84.0            86.0                 183.1                         Total apres imprevus
m 



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER -
Management of Natural Forest / Aménagement Foret Naturelle
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1              2              3             4                5           before Contingencies /
PY/AP          PY/API         PY/AP          Pv/Ar           PY/AP           avant   imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                          2.0            2.0             2.0           -                -                      6.0                    1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                               4.1            0.1             0.1           3.9              -                      8.2                    2.   Equipement
3. Forestry Works                                                                                                                                        3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous            -              -              -              -               -              -       -                             3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                    2.0            4.0             6.0           6.0             6.0                   24.0                           3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière           w
3.3   Operating Costs                   0.6            1.2             1.8           1.8             1.8                    7.2                           3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                   -              -               -             -               -                      -                             3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                             4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                    1.6            2.2             2.8           2.8              2.8                   12.2                          4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                     0.6            0.5             0.4           0.5             0.4                     2.4                          4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants             -               -              -             -                -                      -                      5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                   1.8             1.9            2.1           2.0              2.1                    9.9                    6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies             12.7           11.9            15.2          17.0            13.1                    69.9                          Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies            1.1            0.9            1.2            1.3             1.0                    5.5                                 Imprévus physiques                   m
Price Contingencies              2.2             3.6            6.6           9.5              9.7                   31.6                                 Imprévus pour hausse des prix        g
Total after Contingencies              16.0           16.4           23.0           27.8            23.8                   107.0                          Total aprts imprévus
C



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Bushfire Control / Lutte contre les Feux
(million CFAF I FCFAI
Total
i             2             3             4               5          before Contingencies I
PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/AP         PY/AP           PY/AP            avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                        52.0           -              -             -               -                    52.0                    1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                             46.3           26.5            0.5          8.3             0.5                  82.1                    2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                 3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous           -             -              -             -               _                                                 3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                   -             -              -             -               -                    p.m.                         3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonniere
3.3   Operating Costs                  4.2            7.1           7.0           7.1             7.1                  32.5                         3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                  2.4           2.4            2.4           2.4             2.4                  12.0                         3.4    Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                        4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                   2.7           2.7            2.8           2.7             2.8                  13.7                         4.1  Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                    0.9           0.9            0.9           0.8             0.9                   4.4                         4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants                           -             -                _                                                         5.   Expatries et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                  3.6            3.6           4.1           4.7             4.5                  20.5                    6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies           112.1          43.2           17.7          26.0            18.2                 217.2                         Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies         10.6            3.7            1.2          2.0              1.3                  18.8                               Imprevus physiques
Price Contingencies            18.7           11.6            7.4         13.8            12.8                   64.3                               Imprévus pour hausse des prix
Total after Contingencies           141.4           58.5           26.3          41.8            32.3                 300.3                         Total après imprévus
'Ib



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Training / Formation
(million CFAF/FCFA\
Total
1             2               3             4               5           before Contingencies
PY/AP         PY/AP           PY/AP         PY/AP            PY/AP             avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                          50.0                   -                      -                                      50.0            1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                                5.1            2.2            -              2.6              -                      9.9                      2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                         3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous             -             -               -             -                -                       -                              3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers            g
3.2   Seasonal Labor                     -             -               -             -                -                                                      3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                    -             -               -             -                -                                                      3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                    -             -               -             -                -                       -                              3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                                4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                     1.8           2.6             2.5            2.6             2.5                    12.0                           4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                      0.4           3.5             3.2            3.2             3.2                    13.5                           4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants              -              -              -              -                -                                               5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                    3.1           18.6           18.2           18.1             18.2                   76.2                      6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies              60.4          26.9            23.9          26.5             23.9                   161.6                            Total avant imprévus
Physical Contingencies            5.8            2.1            1.8            2.1              1.8                   13.6                                   Imprévus physiques
Price Contingencies              10.4           7.8            10.2          14.8             17.2                    60.4                                   Imprévus pour hausse des prix          '
Total after Contingencies              76.6           36.8           35.9           43.4             42.9                  235.6                             Total après imprévus
O



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Assistance to Research / Appui à la Recherche
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1             2              3             4                5           before Contingencies
PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/AP         PY/AP            PY/AP           avant  imprévus
1.   Infrastructure                          -              -              -             -                -                      -                       1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                               5.2            1.0            1.0           5.2              1.0                   13.4                     2.   Equipementt
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                      3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneous            -             -                     -         _-                                                                 3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                    -             -              -              -               -                                                    3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonniere
3.3   Operating Costs                   -             -                     -               -                   -                                        3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                          -              -             -               -                   -                                        3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   1.ocal Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                            4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                    -             -              -              -               -                                                    4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                     2.8           2.7            2.8            2.7             2.8                   13.8                           4.2   Auxilaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants            21.0           21.0           21.0          21.0             21.0                  105.0                     5.   Expatries et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                   7.2            7.3            7.2           7.3              7.2                   36.2                     6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies             36.2          32.0           32.0           36.2,           32.0                  168.4                           Total avant imprevus
Physical Contingencies            1.2           0.8            0.8           1.3              0.8                    4.9                                  Imprévus physiques                    Dl j
Price Contingencies              5.6           8.4            12.2          18.3            20.7                   65.2                                  Imprévus pour hausse des prix         zI
c
Total after Contingencies             43.0           41.2           45.0          55.8             53.5                  238.5                           Total après imprévus



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT I SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Planning and Monitoring  Unit   Unite d'etudes et de suivi
(Million CFAF/ FCFA)
Total
1             2              3             4                5           before Contingencies
PY/AP         PY/AP          PY/AP         PY/AP            PY/AP            avant  imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                                         -                            -                -                                              1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                               7.0            -              -             7.0              -                     14.0                     2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                      3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1   Inputs & Miscellaneaus            -             -              -              -               -                                                     3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers          a
3.2   Seasonal Labor                    -             -              -              -               _                                                     3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                   -             -               -             -                                       -                             3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                   -             -               -             -               -                      -                              3.4   Pesonnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                             4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                    1.6           1.6             1.6           1.6              1.6                    8.0                           4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                     2.7           2.7             2.8           2.7             2.7                    13.6                           4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants            42.0          36.0            42.0          36.0             24.0                 180.0                      5.   Expatries et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                   8.0            8.0            7.9           8.0              8.0                   39.9                     6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Centingencies             61.3          48.3            54.3          55.3            36.3                  255.5                            Total avant imprevus
Physical Contingencies           1.5            0.8            0.8           1.5              0.8                    5.4                                  Imprevus physiques                   cm
Price Contingencies              9.3           12.5           20.3          27.7             23.6                   93.4                                  Imprevus pour hausse des prix    @
Total after Contingencies              72.1          61.6           75.4           84.5            60.7                  354.3                            Total après imprévus
Fm



NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PBOJECT / SECOND FROJET FORESTIER
Project Unit / Direction du Projet et Services Communs
(million CFAF/FCFA)
Total
1            .2             3             4               5          before Contingencies
PY/AP        PY/AP          PY/AP         PY/AP           PY/AP           avant imprevus
1.   Infrastructure                        42.5          -              -             -               -                    42.5                     1.   Infrastructure
2.   Equipment                             46.6          30.0         120.0          15.4                                 212.0                     2.   Equipement
3.   Forestry Works                                                                                                                                 3.   Travaux forestiers
3.1  Inputs &  Miscellaneous                        -                                                                                               3.1   Approvisionnement & Divers
3.2   Seasonal Labor                                                                                                                                3.2   Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
3.3   Operating Costs                 -             -              -             -                                     -                            3.3   Frais de fonctionnement
3.4   Permanent Staff                 6.1           6.1            6.0           6.1             6.0                  30.3                          3.4   Personnel permanent
4.   Local Supervisory Staff                                                                                                                        4.   Encadrement local
4.1   Civil Servants                  4.6           4.6            4.6           4.6             4.6                  23.0                          4.1   Fonctionnaires
4.2   Support Staff                   9.3           9.4            9.3           9.4             9.3                  46.7                          4.2   Auxiliaires
5.   Expatriates and Consultants           58.0         58.0           58.0          58.0            58.0                 290.0                     5.   Expatriés et Consultants
6.   Other Operating Costs                 27.8         30.2           30.4          30.2            30.4                 149.0                     6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement
Total before Contingencies          194.9         138.3          228.3         123.7           108.3                 793.5                          Total avant imprévus                       p
Physical Contingencies         11.7           6.0           15.1           4.6             3.0                  40.4                                 Imprevus physiques
Price Contingencies            31.5          36.9           86.2         64.0            71.8                  290.4                                 Imprévus pour hausse des prix        c
Total after Contingencies           238.1         181.2          329.6         192.3           183.1               1,124.3                          Total après imprévus
.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Table IV-14
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Unit Costs and Seasonal Labor Requirements / Coûts Unitaires et Besoins en main-d'oeuvre saisonnière il
Unit Costs (Direct)                                    Seasonal Labor
Before Amortization Aftet Amortization
of heavy duty         of heavy duty                               Total
equipment             equipment                                Man-days
----------- 1981 CFAF (US$) -----------
1.   Establishment of Plantation and
Maintenance for first 3 years
Cos t/ha
1.1  Rural tree plantations 2/               14,000    (52)           14,000      (52)               75-100  Iha first 3 years
1.2 State Managed Rainfed tree
plantations 3/
with mechanical Ripping               194,700    (721)         217,500    (806)               74
without mechanical Ripping            173,200    (642)         191,400    (709)               93
(manual digging)
1.3  Gum Arabic Plantations 4/              159,100    (589)         171,900    (637)                75
1.4 Tree Plantation in irrigated 5/
agricultural perimeters
(including irrigation)               289,500   (1072)         306,900   (1136)               127.5
2.   Management and Monitoring of Pilot 6/
Industrial irrigated plantations           182,600    (676)         249,000    (922)                44     Iha/year
ha/year
3.   Management and Monitoring of Pilot 7/
Rainfed plantations /halyear                10,000      (37)         12,400       (46)              p.m
4.   Maintenance of Firebreak /ha/year  8/            350       (1)            470       (2)              p. m
l/  Not including amortization of buildings and civil works as well as supervisory and support staff costs and other
operating costs. Details in Project Files.
2/   Not including the free-labor provided by farmers
1/   Costs in Table rV.3 are based on 50% mechanical ripping and 50% manual digging
4/   100% manual digging
5/   Based  on 50% mechanical ripping and 50% manual digging as well as 50% irrigated
6/   Costs may be overestimated due to the experimental/training aspects of this component
7/   Annual costs/ha for PY1 and PY2
8/   Annual cost Iha for Natural forest                 from PY1
Rainfed tree plantation    from PY4
Gum arabic plantations       from PY4
Natural gum arabic stands  from PYI



- 61. -
ANNEX 2
NIGER                                                 Table/Tableau V
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Total Wood and Gum Arabic Production!
Production totale du bois et de la gomme arabique
PY/     Irrigated Plantations/        State Managed Rainfed Plantations    Rural Plantations/                 Gum Arabic
AP      Plantations Irriguées            Plantations en sec en régie          Plantations rurales           Gomme Arabique
(m3)                                (mâ)                             (m3)                      Tons
Pilot Project/ Irrigated   Pilot Project           Second Project                           Plantations       Natural Stands
Projet Pilote  Perimetersl Projet Pilote           Second Projet                               (New /           Plantations
Perimdtres                                                                    Nouvelles         naturelles
irriguées
1                -               -                  -                -                  -                  -                 360
2              2,100             -                 -                 -                  -                  -                 :360
3             12,300             -                  -                -                  -                  -                 :360
4                -             1,800              3,975              -                  -                  -                 360
5              2,100           1,800              5,250              -                  -                    36             .360
6             12,300           1,800              2,250              -                  -                    72              360
7                -             3,600                -              4,500                -                  108               360
8              2,100           3,600                -              4,500              4,200                144               360
9             12,300           1,800                -              4,500              8,400                180               360
10               -             3,600              3,975            4,500             21,000                180               360
il               -             3,600              5,250              -               31,500                180               360
12               -             1,800              2,250            4,500                -                   180              360
13               -             3,600                -              4,500                -                  180               360
14               -             3,600                -              4,500              4,200                180               360
15               -             1,800                -              4,500              8,400                180               360
16               -             1,800              3,975            4,500             21,000                180               360
17               -             1,800              5,250            4,500             31,500                180               360
18               -               -                2,250              -                  -                  180               360
19               -               -                  -              4,500                -                  180               360
20               -               -                  -              4,500              4,200                180               360
21               -               -                  -              4,500             8,400                 180
22               -               -                  -              4,500            21,000                 180                -
23               -               -                  -              4,500            31,500                 180                -
24               -               -                  -                -                  -                  180
25               -               -                  -                -                  -                  180                -
26               -               -                  -                -                  -                  144                -
27               -               -                  -                -                  -                  108                -
28               -               -                  -                -                  -                    72               -
29               -               -                  -                -                  -                    36               -



pyl      00        003      04        poo1     mo        ooï      roC       000      -olO      0011     012       0013      0014     DISE     6356      0017      poiS      polo     000       p"ol     oooo      0003      -04       Pl',    P-6        003        00       0009     F0Y30
.COESO IlYLMN  Oo-éo do -~1...00
S.  Oo-opoo  -SoOo30
-1 -d5 0265    0425d5 '02               Ci,       70        4 3003    639.0   627.0
06(0 C-odo   OodS U00                   000.0    031       104.7      227.6   004.4
041 SooSî.oooîo   4                       72.0     7900      7015      93.0   000,0
00100'-oooo                         013.7    'o.0       p2.3     l50.6   633 4
Olood Soooo'Oooo do Solo           -        491.7    333.0     108.9   240.7    -.9.0       162.4    064.1    726.      354.6    523.3    734.,.    109.s   193-    175.6         364.0   410.4      06.6    00.       5s6        0.n    193.4         07      
Wood Peooî'So,oopo                         0.1      0.0       0.3        OS1     0,1      0    O.      p .    0.6       0.5       0.6      0.6       0.0      0.6      0.6      0.0        0.7      0.1      0.3       0.3       07       0.3        ~3        013        03       0I3      07        170        0 3     O          .0
ODOSINIO             ~~~~    ~~1.4  1 4  1.4      1.4      î.6       1.7       l.4       1.0      2.0       0.       0.0              20    .0   0.0      0.0        25       0 .0     0,0       2,0       0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      20       10        10         17      i6        [.4
Solo oooOot -o  o ...oolot                   -      0.0       4.0      11.      104         -                   -         -
S.bl.,.I/ S-.    - ~   ~        0,11    02.3    339.0      120.5   067,2    -60.0       144.7l   267.3    709.0    37~7.2    t-6.      707.1   .005.    19s.'    196 1        367,1   421.9      00,1    191.9    0l,1.0         . 1090 0.09     100.0        0.3       O        2 20      2 5                1     9   1 7
'0004 -W   T1  d-10   Slo -20000-0      010.0    66.    lo,.0    loool  1100 6    160,            14.11    2(7.    _719.1    16l.       101.0    703.0    105.0e   00>0~   l96.i         61   421.         00.l1    10~5.    101.0    101,0    100.0        190.0.                25.      202      21-         2 0     S1 O      7
ce. 0410  00100  -oplo do   oî-
0.  90(0   oî     OO06DO0                     73 5    6~73.0    093.6    1044.6   030.1    163.6       100.0    106.0    164.1    706.2    204_7   167.0         93.7    605.       -%,       07      67..      47.6      70  O    01.0      ol.0       4.î      51 1       00.0      36 7,   Pl O       oo         367    oo99       22 
2,  oe, s-,opp'oooooo
10~1o01000'o00o0oP6o010Y  6.4    10.0       0.0       1.6     0.4         .          -        -         -         .        .         .        .        .                                                                                                                          
do oCOdIt 4'                    0.4       7.4     10.        14.1    16.0      20.5      20 5      20.0     00.1      20.5     34.0      73.0      33.7    37.       3.-,     33.4~    33.3       77.2     79. 1     33,0      60 0     37         59.4       301       14 8    071        0         57 9    >7 6      17 
0000  3                        ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~1.7  4.6  7.3  10.4    13.6  14 7  14.1     04.7      14.7      14.7     59.'      00.7.7    7    0.7         19,'      70.7     50.7      59,7      59.7    -O. 7      50.7      30797        .0       7  7     30 F.0    F97      50 7       -0      5097      59.7
<05 pîîoo  0001106  000700 pIloN  9/01     0. . 1                1      0.1       0.1      10.2     11.1      17.1      770      14_140             1.6      1.6      1.0       1.       Oo.0      0.6       064       26.3     2e6.1     06`        000        2,      O2  6    25LL   ..5L3          2`5     251 I      1.0
do 10 dot-                      00.0      02.1     34.7       30.6,   44 I      44 3      10.4      50.3     30.3      00.0    lD7,'   107.4    161.7,   1lS.î    100.0    103.09    110.7    019.5    119.7    119.0    1459.71   145 4           041 O      144 5    144.1   147 7    1452O    142 P   140.4    140.0
10001 OUTF00 ToDol Ooo O ....e           003,     70. 3    9200.3    1004.0  u163.1    003.6       043.0    046.3    21~.4    056~.4    713.       032.0 p   010.1   177.4    173.3~   19775    1o7.0       ~ 16      100.0   170.0    103.4    003.0        00.1       1744    l'O  O   177.6    177-.1       17M     172.7    164.5
1, -~ Col-DDOo  pbo8001                      36.3    130.2>   000.6~      (2,11  117.5    333.4         760     21.0    740.7    110.8    010.0    474 0         15.3)   o.6    .00.>    069.6    234.7    760.20         3.0      2,.0      597       80  00  (179.10   11751~I     60  1717  41  0171 Ol   5177 6o <170 40  0160.7
osoolo                        6î6.~~~~~~~~~~~1 0)117.10   012.0  110.0   221.7    oî1. 1  402.o    703.5   1004.0   11.0.0   l367.'  1800a,   017967  1610.5   1041.0   0011.1   2246.2   2178.0   0117.0   îî0.l    00.0   2t0.2    îlO,.6    00043    1845~.0  16743 100.                       1320 9   101.1U    902.7
il  ONNOOOd îlo-  -looloNl   -ld ho -old -l  -odod  poIo...0050do loto doloolOOOpohodoplo
0'   Dop,olSOaîooOpoooop.,ColîopooOooOolaoPotlOoo  olhio  10000.__oop   odooîdlooooéolo l1loOtdoool                                ...o ..oo ..oio d-oélotoogioo
AU.ooîoo  îo  o0,l.ooood  oplo _  .060 '  o,lolo4 oggooo1.*
4'    podor  00              -io odlloooooo 1fh    - 21.,0-0-                                          L2       0-      -10-    -lâ                        ,',      ~-d                  ~)






- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Table/Tableau VII
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT   /  SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
IDA Credit, Schedule of Disbursement I
Crédit IDA, Prévision de déboursement
(US$'000)
IDA
Fiscal Year            Semester          Disbursement            Cumulative
Année Fiscale           Semestre           Déboursement             Cumulé
1982                   1                    -                     -
2                  500 i/                500
1983                   1                   700 2/              1.200
2                1.100                 2.300
1984                   1                   850                 3.150
2                  900                 4.050
1985                   1                   950                 5.000
2                  950                 5.950
1986                   1                1.200                  7.150
2                1.200                 8.350
1987                   1                1.000                  9.350
2                  750                10.100
_/ Includes PPF of US$360.000/y inclus PPF de 360.000 mille dollars Etats-
Unis.
2/ Of which US$ 300,000 revolving fund/ lequel montant de 300,000 mille
dollars Etats-Unis de fonds d'avances remboursables.






-64 -
SECOND Pi~RESTRY PROJfECI  / SECOND PROJET PORNSITER                                                                                   A1NEx 3
Table/ 
Pyl     PYI    PI)    PYS    PIS    F16          PsY     rIS      PlI       mlI   PYSI    21P12    FY15    F114    PylE    ryî6    PY17   PI18    F119    PY2O    2Y21    2Y22    P232
IWITROU1T P    .ROJECT / SARS _L  PROJET
Net Millet Darput / Pr-dartian nette de sil
(300 kg,/ha)              T           -      120     36o    66î   iî60   iîSO        î06o    1î60    i6 1560            îs6î    isSo 150   1560    tîSo     1560    IMs       1560   ls6î      is6î     i560       660      360      120
valae/VaIear (60 CEFAF/kg)            EPAF seillisa                   6.o   18.0   350.1 7. 78.0     78.0    78.0 78.0    7              6.1 78.0    78.î0y7.               yo. 78.1 80 7.    y8.o0   76.O   78-o    78.0    78.0    43.0    I8.0            6.0
WITE PROJECT / AVEC LE PROJET
lafraetraetareIaieasîeuerure CEAF sillisse          11.4          -          -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -                 -        -        -        -       -        --                 --
Equipseeet/ Eqasipesset               CFRF deillion          27.3    7.4       -    18.0       -               -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       ---                                 --
PFr-stry W-ark / Travas. Fas-estiers
I.Tpais and Mlisrellaaeaus/
Appravisliaass-ets et divers-                                  8.5    4.9   28.5   28.s b                                                                                                                                                       
-  las-rl La           dlNI  d...u
"sais..aier  (421 CERF/h)      CRFA  ailis             -     0.9    1.2    4.7    7.0         -        -        -       -         .                         -        -        -        -        -       -        --                 ---
Lan-î RSperviaary asd Seppart Sraiff
Pers..ssel l0aaI deradrr,sat
et silarsCERF millias                                       14.6   24,4   288.6 26   28.6    1.1             1.5      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4    0.4        0,4      0.4      0.4    0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4
Eapatriatea and Ca....ltants /
Espatrirs eteasltasCERF aillias                              1.2    8.2    1.2    5.2    4.2          -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -         --
Catineg Casts / Frais dr ..aupe
(300 CAFA/ as3                       CERF  illias--                  -       -       -      -        -               1.8      2.5     6.        1.5,      -        -       1.3      2.1      (.       9.5      -        -       1.8      2.5      6.3      9.2
Operattag Casta / Autre irais de
Paaetlrsreaeat              EP~~~~~CAF sillion     ii.6   i11-5   li.6   11.6   1i.6    2.6,        2.8      0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4    0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4      0).4     0.4
TOTAL COlTS / COlTS TOTAIX                 ~~~~~~~70.2   68.9   75.2  129.6  158.9   82.9    q2.3    801     813.1       1     8.3    78.8    y8.8    811          81       3. 1    8i8. 37b.6        78.8    80.1    6î1. o    85.1    88.3
Pirevard Output J Prad-ettru de bais, ds
fra                                             ss53           -      -       -       -       -      -        -       760    1540   18900   28540o         -        -      3780    746o   1890o   28320         --              3780    75~60   189o0   2835O
Buildisg Pales Output /Pradurrtan de perhes s                                  -       -       -                       420      840    2100    3150         -                420      840    2100    3150         --              420      840    2100    3150
Fire-.'sd Value (Randaide Frire) Valeur du
hais de iru (Prix bard de le r-te)CFA  sillian                                                                       b             5.3   115.5   301.6   452.4  -   -      60.4   12O.6   301.6   452.4         --              60.4   120.6   301.6   452.4
9a{lding poles Value (Rradside Prs-irS
Valeur des p.erhrs (Pria hard de la
routes)                               CEFA  millita                    -      -       -                              24.8    52.6   159.3   208.9                   -      27.9    55.7   139.3   208.7         --              27.9    55.7   159.5   208.7
TOTAL BENEFITS / TOTAL DES RECETTES         C                                                                       81 î6î 409 61s-                                      818. s    l-6 S 1   440 9   661.5                  __ 8.o 17  ~ 440 9 ~66i .i






-65 -
NIGER
SECOND FORESTRT FR0JE1T /SEGOND PROJET FORESTIER
ANNEX 3
Table/Tableau 2
PLi   PR?      FR5    FR4    PRO5   PT6        PY?'    PR~'   FT9         FR10   FR11    FRI2    FR15    FR14    FR15    PRiS    FR17   FRIS    FR19    FR20    FR21    FR22    FR25
Without Proles-t / Isets le ps- jet                               P       p-O   pot    PoM    Pot       su      po       pe       pot      pot     Pot      Pot       pst      pot      pot      o        Pot    Pot       p        P.       PR       pot      P.
RIS  rjh   t     ve  l   roe
nratocue/ Infr-ot-t-cr       CFAF ailîlots              6.2q     -       -       -              -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       --                ---
Eqtslpotet /Equipo-tent               OFAF toillion            74.6    9,5   74.5   î6.5 8                      4.6       --               4.6       -        -       4.6       -        -       4X        -               4$        ----
Fo-etry Workc/ Trovatot  Foretier   UFAF nillion
I.lputs and Mis-llînauooc/ Appr-vlsiouoeotants
et diver                                             13.9   15.9   13.9   15.9   15.9         -        -       -                          -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        ---                         --
-  escl lbor / Soodoeveslenir                      10.6   11.5   11.7   11.7   11.7          -       -        -                 -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        --                ---
-Vehtcles Opecattcg bs-te / Friai  de Fontion-
ornent vébloulen                                      15.5   17.6   19.9   19.8   19.9    4.6          2.6     9.5      0.4      0.1      0.5      0.5      O.c      5.5      0.5      0.1~     0.5    0.6       0.5      0.5      0.5      9.5      0.4,
-  Feusanot Staff / Fersooel permanent                   3.7    5.7    5.7    5.7    3.7          -       -        -        -             -        -        -            -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -         -        -
local Suporvisory ond Sopport Staff /Peool
local1 dse-ucdreotot et aooiliairee tPAF  iîlîlin              5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    1.5          1.5       .  1.     3 1.5       1.5     1.     3 1.5  1.3 1.5                1.51,        1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5
Espatriatos ond  Eneîtcn/Fpatrice et co....Iaute                  6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4                           -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -      -         -        -        -        -        -
CFAF eilîlen
Orbe- Op-erai.g CGos-t  / Anrro  frole de  ocinnt                9.2    9.8   10.0    9.6    9.6    4.5         4.3      4.3      4.3      4.3      4,5      4.3      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.3      4.3    4.3       4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5
CPAF million
Gs-tting Gos-te / br-Ga de cope        GEAF milîlio               -       -      -       -       -       .       1.3     1.3      5.5      1.5      1.5       -       1.5      1.3      1.5      1.5      1.5      -       1.3      1.3      1.5       1.5      1.5
TOTAL GOSTS Y' GOUST  TOTAUIX                            144.2   75.0  145.1   8s.1   68.4   10.2    14.1           7.4      7.4    12.0       7.4      6.1    15.0       7.4      7.4    12.0       7.4    6.l    15.0        7.4      7.4      7.4      7.4
Piro....nd Outpot Y Production de bols- do Oea  o3                -       -       -      -                     600      36oo    3600    3600    36os          -      365o    3600  ~6oO0    36so    36oî           .      3r0oo    3600    36ss      36oo    360s
îutldiog Fois-o Ootpv  / Frodsotiou de ps-ebon  ot -3-                                                         900       900      900      900      900       -       900      900      900      900      9000             900      900      900       900      900
PFrevood Value (Roadoido Prico) / Valeu du boie do
fnu (Pria bord do pis-to)      GEAF otillion .                                                                47.7    50.7    54.1    57Y.4    57.5          -      57.5    57.1,   27.5    57.5    S757.                57.-    .57.5    57.5 5, 7.1    57.5
Buildipg Polos Valua (Rondeido  ro)Vlu  don
Porebhs- (Polo lord de Pinte) tPAF ullilon                       -                              -       -     5.2    53. 2    56.4        9. 7    059, 7     -       9.7    59.7    5,9,7    99.7    59.7          -     59.7    59.7    1-,9. 7   59.7      19.7
TOTAL BENPPIRS / TOTAL DES REGETTES                          -       -      -       -       -       -     97.9   103.9   110.5   117.2   117.2                 117.2   117.2   117.2   117.0   117.2                117.2   117.2   117.2  117.0    117.2






NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJECT FORESTIER
Economic Analysis - Plantatiotns in Irrigated AgricuJtuoral Perimeters   Plantations dans Perimetres Hydro-agricoles - Analyse Economique
PY 1   PY 2   PY 3   PY 4   PY s   PY 6   PY 7   PY S   PY 9   PY lO   PY 1l   PY 12   Py 15   PY 14   PY 15   PY 16   py 17
WITHOUT PROJECT/ SANS LE PROJET
Net Millet Output / Production nette de mil
(400 kg/ha)               T       16     52      48     64      80      80     80      80     80      80      80       80       80       64      48     52        16
Value/ Valeur (60 CFAF/kg)               (CFAF million)   1.0    2.0    2.9    3.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8            4.8      4.8     4.8       5.8    5,9    2.0        1.0
WITH PROJECTJ AVEC LE PROJET
Infrastructure /  Infrastructure    (CFAF million)         1.5      -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -         _              - _
Eqaipment / Equipement                 (CFAF million)    10.8    4.2   17.4    7.7    1.7         -      5.1      -      -                               5.1  -  -  6.1
Forestry Works / Travaux Forestiers (CFAF Mtillion)
- Inputs and Miscellaneous /
Approvisionnement et divers                       1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7        -      -       -      -                                 -
-  Seasonal Labor / Main d'oeuvre                                                                                                                                                                9
saisonniere                                      2.4    2.4    2.5    2.6    2.6        -       -       -      -       -       -        -        -        -       -       -        -
- Vehicles Operating Costs/ Frais de
fonctionnement véhicules                         2.9    4.1    5.2    s.6    5.8    2.2    1.0
-  Permanent Staff / Personnel permanent              0.5    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8        -      -
Local Supervisory and Support Staff/ Personnel
local d',encadrement et auxiliaires  (CFAF million)    O.O    0.9    1.4    1.2    1.5    0.6    0.7    0.6    0.6    o.6              o.6     o.6      o.6       o.6    o.6    o.6        o.6
Expatriates and Consultants / Expatries
et Consultants                          (CFAF million)   1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6             -       -      -       -           -        -       -         -       -      -         -
Other Operating Costs / Autres Frais de
fonctionnement                          (CFAF million)   2.9    5.0    4.7    4.7    4.7    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5            2.5     2.5      2.5       2.5    2.5    2.5       2.5
Cutting Costs / Frais de coupe           (CFAF billion      -       -       -     0.7    0.7    0.7    1.4    1.4    0.7    1.4         1.4      0.7     1.4       1.4    0.7    0.7        0,7
TOTAL COSTS / COUTS TOTAUX                           26.4   2D.,   38.2   50.4   25.7   10.8   15.4    9.3    8.6   14.4           9.3     8.6      9;6       8.3    6.7    5.8        4.8
Firewood Output « Production bois de feu    m3              -       -            1260   1260   1260   2520   2520   1260   2520    2520    1260    2520           2520   1260   1260       1260
Building Poles Output / Production perches                  -       -       -     540   -f4      540   1080   1080       540  1080    1080       540    1080      1080    540    540        540
Firewood Value (Roadside Prices) /Valeur bois
de feu  (Prix bord de piste)            (CFAF million)   -         -       -    15.7   14.7   15.7   33.4  35.5   18.9   40.2    40.2    20.1    40.2            40.2   20.1   20.1       20.1
Building Poles Value (Roadside Price) /Valeur
perches (Pris bord de piste)            (CFAF million)    -        -       -    25.2   26.8   28.4   60.2   65.8   33.8   71.6    71.6    35.8    71.6           71,6   35.8  35.8        35.8
TOTAL BENEPITS 1 TOTAL DES RECETTES
(CFAF million)    -       -       -    38.9   41.5   44.1   93.6   995   52.y  111.8   111.8    55.9   111.8    111.8   55.9   55.9              55.9
o.
c






- 67 -
N20FR
SECOND FORESTRY POFR00T   SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Econonic Analyste G- Ee   Ar-bOc Plantations   Analyse..   ott       lntto    eGni
ANNEX 
Ta-ble/Tableau 4
F1I   py2   F17   py4   F74   F08   F17   F78   F19   F110   F711   PY1    FY113   F114   FY10   PY16   FYI"   PlIP   F119   F700   FY21  F720   P723   FY24   F725   F726   PY27   F728   FY29
WITHOUT FROJECT / SAN~S PROJET   CFA0nilliOo  <FP5>
WINTI PROJEET /AVEC lE PROJET
Vrrnrcne   nfr-st-oour   CFAF million         8.7    -      -    1.3     -      -     -
Eqsipmest / Equipenent            CERF million       56.6   5.7    -   11.7    -        -    4.6                  4.6    -        -      4.0      -             4.6                   4.6      -       -      4.î                     4.0      -       -
Fereotry W.rkn / TraV... Forestiers CFAF ilRcan
EnPute and llselnos/Apptov.isRenenet
Otldi--r                                       8.1   8.5   8.5   85.   8.0----                                                    -       -      -        -      -      -       -                                                                           
Sea...nal Lnbur  MiRe d3ur   oenir                .4   3.6   3.7   3.7   3.7   11 0.6                --                                     -      -        -                                -    -               -              -       -       -       --
V6hileu. Op.ratOng Ceets /Frais de
foeetteeneu,et vdhituîes                       3.4   4.5  1.5.,   5.6   5.6   0.2   0.0   0.P  0.2        0.2    0.2    0.2    O.,    O.?   0.11        0.2    0.2   0.0    0.2    0).2    0.2         0.2    0,2    0.2    0.2    000    0.1    0.1           -
Permenent Staff 7, Pereunnul  oreet              1.8   1.8   1.8   1.6<   1.8-         ---                                                                                                                                     -  -  -  -
Local  S.peevis.ry and Support Staf f / P.,r...nel
loca  dncademet e  auili.iCe
CEAF million       2,3   2.7   2.3   0.3   2.3   7.9l   0.9    0.9  0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.5    0.9   0.9    0,9    0.9                0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9            0.9
CEpatriat-s and Consu.ltants  REpatnias et
rensoltante             ~~~~~~~~CFRF million  4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0    -      -       -    -       -     -       -        -      -       -       -       -     -       -       -       ..      -       -       -      -       -       -       -        -
Oth-r Operotlg Cunto / A.utr- ftain do
Fomuttonneneer          ~~~~~~CERF million  7.7   7.9   8.0   7.9   7.9   3.3   3.3    3.3  3.3    3.3    3.5    3.5    3.3    3.3    5.3    3.3    3.3   3.3    3.3    7.31                3.7    3.3    3.5    5.3    3.3    3.3    3.3    3.3           e.0
Col11-tong Cents / Cent de  eaug
CEAF ili.In--                           -      -    p     p-e      pa   pu      P.      Fn    pu      pa     Pn      Pu      Fn     pn    Pn       P.n    pa       P.      P.      Pn      pns    pm      F0      P.      P.      F
Oun Arablu Cl-anig F-nking St-rge Conte and
Weight tocs " Cents de -ettoyage d Rebo1lage
du utckoge et Perte do poids de la Sonn
srsbique                ~~~~~~~~CEAI' million -     -                 1.6   3.2   4.8    6.2, 8.1    8.1    0.  .1    8.1    5.1              6.1 8.1    8.1 H .1    8.1           6.1      3. 8.1  8.1    8.1 .l      8.1 i       8  .5    4.8    3.0      i.6
Woud Cttcing Ouste / Frais do coupe de bois
de Feu-                                                                                -                         -       -       -      -       -              -       -                     -        -       -                      .      o.6    0.6    0.        0.
TOTAL 00O7T   COFIS TOTRAX                      96.4  38.3  39.8  00.8  31.4   847  14.4   10.9 12.5   17.1   12.5   12.15   17.1   12.5  '02.5   17.1   12.0,  12.5   17.1   10.5    12.5   17.1   12.0   12.0   17.7   11.5    9.7    8. 1-   6.4
Gun il-bi, OutFt   P.Ecd,uctien dn Gusun
Arabique                                   T                                    36    72   108    144  180    180    130    180    180    16,0   16EL   180    160   160    080    180               180    180    18E    180    180    144    108          72       36
Firescod OntpuciFrdctt           de bois de feu n3-                                                                       -       -       -      -       -       -      -      -       -      -        -       -              -     1871   1875   1870   1870    1870
Sen Arable value (E  Zind-r Wa-house Fri-e
Valeur de le gomm erabîque (prin dêp-tc
nttrapot Cinder>                 CFAF silli..         .     -                 11.1  22.9  34.4   40.8 57.3   07.3   S7.3   07.3   57.3   57.3   07.3   57.3   07.3  07.3   17.3   57.3    17.3   57.3   17.-3   57.3   57.3   45.8   30 .4   22.9    11.1
Fitrewod Value (Ro.dsidd Price) /Valeu de
buis de feu (Fric Burd de  ene
CFAF ilitn.                                                         -       -      -       -     -       -                                .       -       -        -      -       -       -    29.9   29.9   29.9   29.9    29~9
TOTAL BIOREITO  _TOTAL DES'ECETI'ESR                                                                                                                                                  7  ~5. 
CEAF million .                              11.   5293.. 4.                       7.3   57.3 573 1.   73 1. 7.3   57.3             17.3  17.3  57   .3         7.3 171    7.3  .57.3   57.9   87.2   7.5.7   64.3   5g..8    40.7 






NIGER
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT / SECOND PROJET FORESTIER
Opportunity Cost of Capital - 10% /
Coût d'option du capital - 10%
Present Value        Present Value       Net Present             Swithching Values
of Costs /            of benefits           Value             Costs         Benefits
Valeur actualisée   Valeur actualisée  Valeur actuelle            Valeurs Critiques
des coûts           des avantages        nette             Coûts        Avantages
------------------ CFAF Million%  -------
Tree plantations in agricultural
irrigated perimeters /Plantations
forestières hydro-agricoles               148.8                392.5              243.6            -163.7         - 62.1
State-managed rainfed tree
plantation / Plantations
forestières en sec en régie               448.1                453.3                5.2          -F  1.2          -  1.1
Rural tree plantations/
Plantations forestières
rurales                                   779.3                965.8              186.4              23.9         - 19.3
Gum arabic plantations/
Gommeraies                                274.1                293.8               19.7               7.2         -  6.7
Total                               1 650.3              2 105.4              454.9              27.6        -21.6 CD
o'
o- 
w
c:



1



r ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ____ i                                                                                             __________                     î8: Rh          _     _RD `5)08
I Y.w5.>8rn. j 2 ,    z Z  T s                                                                                              >                L | B Y  A
O5088v2gk0, >2rf( noe   ,4                                               
N I G E Rt/ 
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                            k  
CEIICI =CIE UORD NG T0 IUCU5 1E79                       /               -            .      I --
M    A    L :   |                            LIMIT 0F
|  EFePT   tJtIt  RIHOU1s L.TAHO         / U4
_>1 NiAMEY ,-MRD 
VD L   T A
N .         G    E    R         :
1,
I I -AH LIAD Ns  5r  DeClDlirJ-us  erusHL!D AHD gJ D ~ ~- - 4 \ . < . \ ( .
.....  ... DL lD I  AtS    D eII    m    Z' 7-                                   z>



