Page  1
P
ROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB6247 
 
Operation Name 
Social Sector Reform DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Health (50%);Other social services (50%) 
Project ID 
P116937 
Borrower(s) 
ALBANIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
Bulevardi eshmoret e Kombit 
Tirana 
Albania 
Tel: (355-4) 222-8373 
 
nhaldeda@minfin.gov.al 
Date PID Prepared 
February 17, 2011 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 5, 2011 
Date of Board Approval 
TBD 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
Albania had a very successful record of sustained high growth over the last ten years before 
the 2009 global economic downturn. Annual growth averaged over 6 percent – among the highest in 
Europe -- with the unemployment rate in a continuous decline. Industry and construction, which 
grew at rates of around 14-15 percent, were key drivers of these trends. Inflation was largely under 
control and a flexible exchange rate system proved to be an effective shock absorber.   
2. 
In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, Albania was one of the few countries in 
Europe that maintained positive growth rates in 2009. This was due to a combination of limited 
financial exposure to international markets and an expansionary fiscal policy initiated before the 
crisis and consisting of elevated public investments (mainly roads) and a series of salary and pension 
increases. The impact of the crisis did however result in lower remittances and a drop in exports, 
which eventually led to moderation of growth rates and of fiscal revenues. The industrial sector was 
hit the hardest by the crisis; both extracting and processing industries recorded double digit declines 
in sales from the start of 2009.  The acceleration of public investment during the first three quarters 
of 2009 helped the construction sector offset the impact of sharp decline in real estate demand, 
while services resisted the crisis better, maintaining positive but declining growth rates in 2009.  
3. 
During 2010 the economy showed clear signs of recovery although the uncertain external 
economic environment suggests there are still risks ahead. The recovery is seen mainly in service 
sector growth that resumed quickly after the short period of slowdown in the second half of 2009, 
signaling a resumption of domestic demand. Industry has also been recovering as a result of strong 
growth in the extracting industry in response to the increase in commodity prices. However, the 
remaining sectors, including construction and processing industries, are still recording negative 
growth rates.  
Page  2
4. 
In structural terms, the agenda of the new Government, which took office in September 
2009, continues to be based on growth, poverty reduction and strengthened safety nets, and 
governance reforms.  As described in its National Strategy for Development and Integration 2007-
2013, the Government of Albania has ratified its medium term strategy of creating the conditions 
that promote long-term growth, poverty reduction, and integration with the European Union.   
5. 
The progress achieved over the last decade in poverty reduction went hand in hand with 
progress in reforms of the social sectors but there is still an unfinished reform agenda that the 
administration intends to continue with renewed emphasis.  Specifically, 
In social assistance, there has been progress in setting up a social safety net that can reach 
the poor, but further changes are needed to improve equity, efficiency, transparency and 
effectiveness in the use of resources for poverty reduction     
In health, there has been progress in improving physical and financial access to primary 
health care services, improving the capacity of both the Ministry of Health and the Health 
Insurance Institute (HII), promoting better governance and management in hospitals, and 
improving quality by setting clinical guidelines and training health professionals.  However 
the unfinished agenda includes increasing access for vulnerable groups, improving efficiency 
in service provision, and enhancing transparency in the financing of the sector.
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
6. 
The objective of the proposed Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (DPL) is 
to 
support policy changes to (i) improve the effectiveness of social safety nets, and (ii) enhance 
efficiency and equity of health spending, in a fiscally sustainable environment.
 
In particular, 
the proposed reform agenda supported by this DPL includes the following: 
i. 
To improve the effectiveness of social safety nets, the DPL would support policies that (a) 
strengthen the mechanisms to allocate funds and select beneficiaries in the main social 
assistance program; (b) introduce incentives for investing in human capital by providing an 
additional benefit linked to school enrollment and attendance for families with school age 
children; (c) initiate the process to create a unified registry of beneficiaries of social 
assistance programs; and (d) change the indexation formula of the disability benefits 
program, to control the disproportionate growing share of resources allocated to this 
program; 
ii. 
To enhance efficiency and equity of health spending, the DPL would support policies to (a) 
introduce more predictable fiscal rules to finance health; (b) improve the methods to 
contract with providers and the capacity to monitor their performance; and (c) grant health 
insurance coverage to social assistance beneficiaries.   
 
The DPL would also enhance transparency and accountability by supporting policies to improve the 
administration of social assistance programs and promoting the use of systematic formulas to 
allocate resources in selected social programs and services.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Page  3
7. 
The rationale for this operation stems from the need to make safety nets and selected social 
programs and services more effective in reaching the poor while maintaining a prudent fiscal stance.  
The reform of Albania’s social programs requires both policy and implementation support, and 
therefore a combination of development policy and investment lending would be appropriate.  A 
number of alternatives were explored to best support the reform program in selected social 
programs in Albania, and the main competing option to the proposed combination of policy lending 
and investment lending support was a programmatic DPL series.  This option would have supported 
policy implementation during its first phase and the development of secondary legislation in 
successive phases.  However, since a programmatic series would have ruled out an accompanying 
investment operation, given the limited lending envelope for Albania, this alternative would not have 
allowed for the concomitant technical assistance and investments needed to build the institutional 
capacity to actually implement the reforms.  For that reason a one phase DPL followed by an 
investment loan is deemed the appropriate combination of instruments.  The DPL is the right 
instrument to support the policy changes needed to improve the effectiveness of social assistance 
programs, and to lend support to introduce changes in the legislation affecting health financing and 
service delivery.  Once the enabling environment is created, ongoing and new investment operations 
would provide on-the-ground support for the implementation of those policies. 
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
25.0 
 Total 
25.0 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
8. 
The implementation of the program will require close coordination between the Bank team 
and the respective institutions responsible for implementation. These include the Ministry of 
Finance, The Ministry of Labor, Social Assistance, and Equal Opportunities, the Ministry of Health, 
and the Health Insurance Institute.  The Ministry of Finance oversees implementation of the Prior 
Actions included in the DPL while the overall design and technical work is the responsibility of the 
respective ministries and related institutions.  The Bank has also been working closely with these 
ministries in the context of preparation and supervision of health and social service projects.  In 
addition, since the DPL is part of a package that includes implementation support through a social 
assistance investment project, the evaluation of most Prior Actions will take place in the context of 
the preparation and implementation of that project.  The Policy Matrix includes a number of 
outcome indicators to monitor progress.  Given the nature of the reform many of those outcomes 
will only be achieved in the medium term. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
%HQHILWV\03
9. 
The proposed DPL is expected to have a positive impact on poverty and redistribution, once 
the policies supported by the operation become fully implemented.  Restoring the conditions for 
sustained growth through a stable macroeconomic framework will help address concerns over the 
slowdown in poverty reduction over the last couple of years. As GDP growth declined since 2008, it 
Page  4
is projected that poverty reduction will also slow down. After several years in which sustained 
growth contributed to more than halving poverty incidence, particularly in rural areas, the projected 
poverty rate is 10.2 for 2010 and 9.5 for 2011. 
10. 
In addition the DPL will support enhancements in the social assistance system by improving 
targeting mechanisms of social assistance programs, both at the geographic and household level.  
Initial simulations suggest that the share of social assistance benefits accruing to the poorest decile 
of the population could increase to 58 percent from the current 38 percent, after the policies 
supported by the DPL are implemented fully and the share going to the poor could increase to 61 
percent from the current 42 percent.
1
Also, extending the coverage of health services financed 
through the Health Insurance Institute to social assistance beneficiaries could increase coverage 
among the poor from 26 percent to 42 percent.
2
5LVNV\03
11. 
0DFURHFRQRPLF\1d
 The fragility of Albania’s external environment remains a risk which 
could worsen the macroeconomic situation and possibly lead to elevated public debt level beyond 
the legal limit of 60 percent of GDP..  During 2010 the economy showed clear signs of recovery 
although there are still risks ahead given the uncertain global and European economic outlook.  The 
fiscal deficit jumped to over 7 percent of GDP in 2009 and public debt approached 60 percent of 
GDP. By mid-2010 government became more attuned to the impact of the economic slowdown and 
adopted a more realistic budget plan, cutting expenditures by 9.5 percent. This adjustment, although 
somewhat delayed, is a step in the right direction for preserving fiscal discipline and avoiding further 
increases in public debt. The challenge now is to keep to this plan without creating major distortions 
in key public services while pursuing a medium term budget framework with measures that ensure a 
declining debt path. 
Mitigating Factors:
 
The World Bank has already intensified its dialogue on the macroeconomic 
policies, given the lack of a Fund disbursing program.  The Albanian authorities are well aware of 
the uncertainty about the future economic outlook and have committed to a gradual decline in the 
level of public debt. Moreover, they are prepared to protect the fiscal deficit from deepening in case 
of revenue underperformance, by building sufficient buffers in the 2011 budget. The first buffer 
consists of contingency funds of 0.8 percent of GDP.  A further buffer is in the form of a 
mechanism similar to the one applied during 2010 which could postpone lower-priority capital 
spending until the mid-year budget review when it would be either initiated or further postponed 
depending on the revenue performance during the first six months. Capital expenditures are budget 
to be 6.2 percent of GDP in 2011, and above 5 percent of GDP in the medium-term, which gives 
sufficient flexibility to reduce spending by postponing some of these expenditures. The authorities 
stand ready to implement these adjustments and others with equivalent fiscal saving, if needed to 
maintain the deficit below 3.5 percent of GDP in 2011 and at 3 percent of GDP thereafter to 
protect the debt level below 60 percent of GDP.  Intensified monitoring coupled with the 
preparation of a new DPL series starting in FY12 should ameliorate the macroeconomic risk beyond 
2011. 
12. 
3ROLWLFDO\1d
 The relationship between the opposition and the coalition Government remains 
tense, one year after the parliamentary elections. The opposition contested the legitimacy of the 
election results and refused to take its seats in Parliament. A compromise in which all 
1
These are preliminary estimates.  Further calculations are under way and available upon request. 
2
Preliminary calculations. 
Page  5
parliamentarians took their seats in Parliament was brokered just ahead of a February 2010 
constitutional deadline.  Although Albania has already made considerable strides in consolidating 
multi-party democracy and peaceful transitions of power, the political climate remains very 
polarized. 
Mitigating Factors:
 
the context of the EU accession agenda with its strong political criteria and 
broad-based support in Albania - across political parties and the general public - should provide 
incentives for early resolution of political issues.  In addition the measures included in the DPL have 
wide support base irrespective of political affiliation. 
13. 
7HFKQLFDO
 : The DPL is in many instances supporting the creation of an enabling 
environment for reforms in social programs and services, but implementation effort will be needed 
after the legislation and associated rules are revised in order to consolidate the reforms.  There is a 
risk that the low capacity in some sectors may hinder the impact of the proposed policy changes.   
Mitigating Factors:
 The current health investment project and an upcoming social assistance project 
will provide implementation support to the policies supported by the DPL.  The DPL team is 
working with the Government team on technical details as a way to build capacity (e.g. the 
preparation of the poverty map and a step-by-step guide to use it in the allocation of NE resources 
to municipalities).   
14. 
6RFLDO
 : While most of the policy changes would have a positive impact on the poor and 
vulnerable, some reforms may result in losses for specific groups with vested interests.   
Mitigation:
 the design of the operation accounts for this risk by phasing the impact of the reforms.  
The Government has discussed the reform program with these groups in order to create broad 
support. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
15. 
Some of the measures under this DPL will help improve the coverage of the poor, while also 
providing for more transparent eligibility criteria for social assistance programs. The improvements 
in geographic targeting by basing allocations on municipal level poverty estimates obtained by small 
area estimation techniques would result in an improvement in the coverage of the poor even if the 
budget remained constant.  Further, the project supports the adoption of new and clear criteria for 
identifying potential beneficiaries. A scoring formula would replace the current system of “filters”, 
which appear to effectively screen out a number of poor potential beneficiaries with a composite 
indicator weighting different household characteristics to identify eligibility. 
16. 
The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment. 
Following OP 8.60, the operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating to the environment, 
forest, and natural resources. As this operation focuses on strengthening institutions, policy 
framework, and the quality of social protection and health in Albania, it is not expected to have any 
impact on the environment. 
Page  6
C
ontact point 
Contact: Daniel Dulitzky 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2528 
Fax: (202) 614-0930 
Email: ddulitzky@worldbank.org 
 
8. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
