Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5784 
Operation Name 
Social Sector Reform DPL 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Health (50%);Other social services (50%) 
Project ID 
P116937 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
Albania 
Tel: (355-4) 222-8373  
nhaldeda@minfin.gov.al 
Date PID Prepared 
May 26, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 12, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 21, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
Albania has had a strong economic performance over the last 10 years.  In the period 1998-2008 
Albania’s economy grew at an average rate of 6 percent, inflation remained subdued, and the exchange and 
interest rates remained stable.  This was accompanied by positive changes in employment and strong 
reduction in poverty rates.  In the same period the unemployment rate decreased from approximately 17 
percent to 12.8 percent and the poverty headcount rate decreased to 12.4 percent in 2008 from 25.4 percent 
in 2002.    
2. 
However Albania has not been immune to the recent global economic and financial crisis. Even 
though Albania is one of the few countries in the ECA region that ended 2009 with a positive growth rate, 
there are signs of deceleration relative to 2008.  Most recent growth estimates are between 1 and 3 percent 
for 2009 and 3 to 4 percent for 2010, while unemployment may have stabilized in 2009 at around 12.9 
percent.  These trends, coupled with decreases in remittances and other potential negative income shocks, 
have likely resulted in a stagnation of poverty at around 12.5 percent and about 3 percentage points higher 
had the slowdown of growth not occurred. 
3. 
In structural terms, the agenda of the new Government, which took office in September 2009, 
continues to be based on growth, poverty reduction and strengthened safety nets, and governance reforms.  
As described in its National Strategy for Development and Integration 2007-2013, the Government of 
Albania has ratified its medium term strategy of creating the conditions that promote long-term growth, 
poverty reduction, and integration with the European Union.  At the same time, with the impact of the 
international economic crisis still unfolding, particularly in Europe, the Government has to take offsetting 
measures and move towards a more sustainable macroeconomic framework. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the DPL is to support policy changes to (i) restore a sustainable fiscal framework; (ii) 
improve the effectiveness of social safety nets, and (iii) enhance efficiency and equity of health spending, in 
a
fiscally sustainable environment.
 
Page  2
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed reform agenda supported by this DPL includes the following: 
i. 
To promote fiscal sustainability, the DPL would support the adoption of a realistic budget and a 
Medium Term Expenditure Framework that protects spending on social assistance.   
ii. 
To improve the effectiveness of social safety nets, the DPL would support policies that 
strengthen the mechanisms to allocate funds and select beneficiaries in the main social assistance 
program to reduce exclusion of poor households; introduce incentives for investing in human 
capital by linking the benefit to school enrollment and attendance for families with school age 
children; initiate the process to create a unified registry of beneficiaries of social assistance 
programs; and lay the ground for reforming the disability benefits program, which is consuming 
a
growing share of social assistance resources but uses a lax control mechanism; 
iii. 
To enhance efficiency and equity of health spending, the DPL would support policies to 
introduce predictable fiscal rules to finance health, and to improve the methods to contract with 
providers and the capacity to monitor their performance; and to grant health insurance coverage 
to social assistance beneficiaries;   
The DPL would also enhance transparency and accountability by supporting policies to improve the 
administration of benefits of social assistance programs and by promoting the use of systematic formulas to 
allocate resources in selected social programs and services
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
No environmental issues have been identified in this project. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Daniel Dulitzky 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2528 
Fax: (202) 614-0930 
Email: ddulitzky@worldbank.org
 
