                                 Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                 Report No.: 88074




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                          REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

              HEALTH SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                            (P082814)

                                     and

        SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                           (P116937)


                                 June 24, 2014




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                 ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (LEK)

2005                   US$1.00                    ALL 99.87
2006                   US$1.00                    ALL 98.10
2007                   US$1.00                    ALL 90.43
2008                   US$1.00                    ALL 83.83
2009                   US$1.00                    ALL 94.98
2010                   US$1.00                    ALL 103.94
2011                   US$1.00                    ALL 100.89
2012                   US$1.00                    ALL 108.18



Abbreviations and Acronyms
CME       Continuing Medical Education
CPG       Clinical Practice Guideline
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DPL       Development Policy Loan
ECA       Europe and Central Asia Region
ESW       Economic and Sector Work
EU        European Union
EUR       Euros
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
HII       Health Insurance Institute
HSMP      Health System Modernization Project
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IPH       Institute of Public Health
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS     IEG Public Sector Evaluation
LSMS      Living Standards Measurement Survey
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
MoH       Ministry of Health
MoSW&Y    Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth
NCQSA     National Center for Quality, Safety and Accreditation of Health Care Institutions
NE        Ndihme Ekonomika Social Welfare Program
OOP       Out-of-pocket
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PHC       Primary Health Care
PHRD      Population and Human Resource Development
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPAR      Project Performance Assessment Report
SAMP      Social Assistance Modernization Project
SDC       Swiss Development Cooperation
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
                                                 iii


TF          Trust Fund
TTL         Task Team Leader
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WHO         World Health Organization




Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                   :     Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :     Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                      :     Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                               :     Ms. Susan Ann Caceres
                                                                    v



Contents
Principal Ratings ............................................................................................................... vii
Key Staff Responsible....................................................................................................... vii
Preface................................................................................................................................ ix
Summary ............................................................................................................................ xi
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Health System Modernization Project ............................................................................ 9
3. Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan ......................................................... 38
4. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 54
References ......................................................................................................................... 59
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet for Social Sector Reform DPL Project (P116937) ............... 63
Annex B. Basic Data Sheet for Health System Modernization Project (P082814) .......... 66
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 69
Annex D. Previous Bank Support to Health and Social Protection in Albania ................ 73
Annex E. HSMP Performance Indicators ........................................................................ 75
Annex F. HSMP Financing and Use of IDA Credit ........................................................ 84
Annex G. Social Assistance Modernization Project (SAMP): An Overview .................. 85
Annex H. Social Sector Reform DPL Performance Indicators........................................ 86
Annex I. Borrower Comments .......................................................................................... 89


Boxes
Box 1.1. Albania’s National Strategy for Development and Integration 2007-2013 ......... 2
Box 2.1. Health System Modernization Project Components .......................................... 10
Box 2.2. Consumers’ Assessment of the Health Care System in Albania ........................ 17
Box 3.1. Priority Social Assistance and Health Sector Challenges Targeted under the
DPL ................................................................................................................................... 40
Box 4.1. Cross-Regional Factors Contributing to the Effectiveness of the World Bank’s
Analytic Work and Technical Assistance ......................................................................... 55
Box 4.2. Cross-Regional Lessons on Health Reform ....................................................... 56

Tables
Table 2.1. Planned versus Actual Costs by Project Component (US$ million) ............... 14

This report was prepared by Denise Anne Vaillancourt, with input from Olinga Rafat, based on their
assessment of the projects in Albania in November 2013. The report was peer reviewed by Bjorn Ekman
and panel reviewed by Kristin Hallberg. Viktoriya Yevsyeyeva provided administrative support.
                                                              vii


Principal Ratings
Health System Modernization Project (P082814)
                                            ICR*                       ICR Review*                        PPAR
                                         Moderately                                                     Moderately
Outcome                                                                 Satisfactory
                                         Satisfactory                                                  Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development
                                           Moderate                       Moderate                       Significant
Outcome
                                                                        Moderately                      Moderately
Bank Performance                         Satisfactory
                                                                        Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                         Moderately                     Moderately                      Moderately
Borrower Performance
                                         Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (P116937)
                                           ICR*                      ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                                 Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development
                                         Moderate                Negligible to Low                       Moderate
Outcome
                                                                      Moderately
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory                                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                                      Moderately
Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory                                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                     Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Health System Recovery and Development Project (P082814)
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                 Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                   Country Director
Appraisal                 Dominic Haazen                         Armin Fidler                  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Completion                 Lorena Kostallari                    Daniel Dulitzky                      Jane Armitage



Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (P116937)
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                 Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal                 Daniel Dulitzky                     Jesko S. Hentschel                    Jane Armitage
Completion                 Lorena Kostallari                        Roberta Gatti                    Jane Armitage
                                                          viii


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
     To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                ix


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Health System Modernization
Project and the Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan in the Republic of Albania.

A Credit (IDA-41540) for the Health System Modernization Project was approved on March 14,
2006 in the amount of SDR 10.7 million (US$15.4 million equivalent). A Government of Japan
(PHRD) grant (TF-55804) of US$1.6 million equivalent provided cofinancing to the project,
along with a planned Government counterpart of US$2.1 million. The credit became effective on
September 7, 2006 and closed on June 30, 2012, 21 months after the original closing date. The
total cost at closing was US$ 19.0 million equivalent. The credit amount disbursed was SDR
9.41 million, 88 percent of the original credit amount and 94 percent of the revised credit amount
(SDR 10.0 million) after SDR 0.7 million was cancelled, due to mis-procurement.

The EUR 18.1 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) Social Sector Reform Development Policy
Loan (DPL) was approved by the World Bank on April 28, 2011, and became effective on August
25, 2011. This single tranche DPL closed as planned on April 30, 2012, and was fully disbursed.

This report is based on a review of project documents, the Implementation Completion and
Results (ICR) Reports on each project, Aide-memoires and supervision reports and other relevant
material, data and studies. A mission to Albania was undertaken by Denise Anne Vaillancourt,
international consultant, and Olinga Rafat, local consultant, in November 2013, during which
interviews were conducted with government officials and technical staff, service delivery
personnel, civil society organizations, beneficiaries, relevant development partners and other
involved persons. The team visited relevant offices and facilities in Tirana, Elbasan and Durres
regions, chosen in consultation with the Government and the Bank’s team, and where over 60
percent of the population resides. The team also acquired additional insight from the Shkodra
health district authorities, who presented their analysis of primary health care performance in that
district at a November 20, 2013 Conference on Quality, held in Tirana. The beneficiary
perspective was greatly enhanced by a recently published USAID study documenting consumers’
assessment of the health care system. Interviews were also conducted in Washington with
additional relevant staff. IEG gratefully acknowledges all those who made time for interviews
and provided documents and information. And it expresses its gratitude to the Bank’s office in
Tirana for the logistical and administrative support provided to the mission, facilitating IEG’s
access to both former and current officials and staff. A list of persons met is provided in Annex C

This report serves an accountability purpose by evaluating the extent to which the operations
achieved their intended outcomes. It also seeks to draw lessons to inform and guide future
investments in the health and social protection sectors. This assessment also complements,
respectively, the ICR Reports prepared by the Bank’s operations teams with Borrower
contributions and IEG’s desk review (ICR Reviews) of these reports, by providing an
independent, field-based assessment, some two years after the projects’ closing.

Following standard IEG procedures, relevant officials of the Republic of Albania were invited to
comment on the draft PPAR. These comments are presented in Annex I attached to this report.
                                             xi


Summary
       This report assesses the performance of two World Bank projects in Albania: the
Health System Modernization Project (HSMP) (supported by an IDA credit of 10.7
million SDR, approved on March 14, 2006); and the Social Sector Reform Development
Policy Loan (DPL) (supported by an IBRD Loan of EUR 18.1 million, approved on April
28, 2011).

        At the outset of the HSMP, the health sector faced a number of challenges: the
rapidly increasing burden of chronic disease on a weak health system; inequitable
distribution of sector resources (physical, human and financial); low services quality and
efficiency; high costs and lack of transparency of the drugs sector; high out-of-pocket
expenditures, with little protection from impoverishment due to health expenses; and a
fragmented financing system. Priorities agreed with Government centered on: (1) more
efficient resource mobilization and allocation; (2) improvements in services quality and
efficiency; and (3) improvements in sector management and stewardship.

        At the outset of the Social Sector DPL, issues undermining the effectiveness of
social assistance programs, included: the rapid increase in disability expenditures due to
substantial increases in benefits costs and in the number of beneficiaries, squeezing out
expenditures for the Ndihme Ekonomika (NE) Social Welfare Program targeted to the
poor; and poor targeting and inefficient, non-transparent administration of the NE
program, which caused some errors of inclusion (of the richer populations) and major
errors of exclusion (of the poorest populations).

Health System Modernization Project (HSMP)

        The project objectives were to (a) improve the physical and financial access to,
and use of, high quality primary health care (PHC) services; (b) to improve the
Recipient’s capacity to formulate and implement health policies and reforms in the health
sector; and (c) to improve hospital governance and management. Special emphasis was
put on the poor and under-serviced areas and on the reduction of unnecessary use of
hospitals through improved PHC services. Three components supported the project
objectives: (1) Strengthening Sector Stewardship, Financing and Purchasing; (2)
Improving PHC Delivery; and (3) Strengthening Hospital Governance and Management.

         The project became effective on September 7, 2006; and a mid-term review took
place in December 2008. The objectives did not change, but two project restructuring
exercises (May 2010; October 2011) caused activities to be added and dropped. The
original closing date of September 30, 2010 was extended twice to June 30, 2012 to allow
completion of hospital equipment procurement. The total actual cost was US$19.0
million, almost exactly the appraisal estimate, but the allocation of expenditures across
components changed. Implementation was very slow, due to: political strife related to
the 2009 elections; significant turnover of Ministers (one per year on average), and of
other leadership positions and technical staff; the filling of some positions with
unqualified persons; and a lack of clarity of roles and responsibilities across key health
institutions, whose roles were evolving.
                                             xii


         The project’s outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project’s
objectives are highly relevant to current country conditions, national strategy and
priorities for the sector and the Bank’s country and sector strategies. The design
relevance is modest, overall. The results chain in the original design was largely
supportive of the achievement of project objectives. However, some critical activities
were excluded. The two project restructurings further weakened the results chain, adding
a number of investments not directly supporting the project objectives (hospital
equipment) and deleting others that were critical to these objectives (quality grant
facility, health information system software).

        The objective to improve access, quality and use of PHC services and to
decrease unnecessary use of hospitals was modestly achieved. There are few reliable
data and trends to document improved physical and financial access. Interviews, IEG’s
direct observations, a 2013 USAID study on consumers’ perspectives and a 2014 World
Bank public finance review all point to no substantial improvements. PHC data indicate
that use of PHC services increased, almost achieving the target of 2.0 visits per capita per
year. But secondary analysis of LSMS data reveal that between 2008 and 2012: (a) use
of health services is lower among the poor; (b) use of outpatient care decreased for all
five quintiles of per capita consumption; and (c) gaps between the rich and the poor’s use
of outpatient care have increased. Improvements to PHC service quality were not
systematically tracked, but appear to be modest. Despite the population’s general
knowledge of how to use the referral system and incentives built into the insurance
reimbursement mechanisms to this end, continued, unnecessary use of hospitals is
documented by virtually all respondents, IEG’s own observations and relevant studies.
There are no data or trends to track progress on this front.

        The project substantially achieved the objective to improve capacity to formulate
and implement health policies and reforms, especially with regard to new provider
payment methods for PHC, based on capitation and bonuses. A package of World
Bank support, composed of analytic work, development policy lending and technical
assistance and training supported under this project, has contributed to strengthened
Ministry of Health (MoH) and Health Insurance Institute (HII) capacity in the
formulation of well-conceived financing policy. Overall, implementation of health
financing reform at the primary level was successful, particularly in the design and
implementation of performance contracts for PHC. However, implementation of health
financing reform at the hospital level fell short of expectations. The development of
information systems for HII for prescription drug processing, patient
registration/enrolment and service monitoring was only partially achieved; and the
creation of a functional public health data warehouse in the Institute of Public Health was
not achieved. Investments in strengthening MoH capacity for strategic sector
management provided some important building blocks (a health strategy, M&E capacity
building; annual performance reviews; and a national health accounts exercise). But they
fell short of expectations, largely due to staff turnover and slow uptake of technical
assistance. Important progress was made in strengthening the capacity of the National
Center for Quality, Safety and Accreditation of Health Care Institutions (NCQSA) to
strengthen its quality assurance and oversight functions. But there is a large unfinished
agenda. The full appropriation and institutionalization of a quality culture throughout the
                                             xiii


health system has not yet happened; and partnerships with civil society and consumers on
quality have yet to be developed.

        The objective to improve hospital governance and management was modestly
achieved. Project training appears to have had little impact on hospital management and
financial management. Technical assistance supported the development of a model and
regulatory framework, including by-laws and regulations, to support the move of MoH
hospitals to the status of autonomous public entities. But the pilot testing of hospital
autonomy in selected hospitals did not happen. Likewise, a hospital rationalization study
was issued in 2008, but its pilot testing did not occur. Project efficiency is modest.
Project resources were allocated to cost-effective, high impact interventions, well placed
to convert resources into the desired outcomes. But restructuring reduced this efficiency.
Implementation was inefficient, and not all objectives were achieved, even though the
costs estimated at appraisal were fully incurred and the project took a full six years to
implement versus the initial plan of four years.

        There is a marked difference between this PPAR’s moderately unsatisfactory
rating of the project’s outcome and IEG’s satisfactory rating of the project’s outcome
based on its 2013 desk review of the Region’s Implementation Completion and Results
Report. This PPAR downgraded IEG’s initial ratings of: (i) design from substantial to
modest based on weaknesses detected in the results chain, which became more evident in
this in-depth analysis; (ii) efficacy of the first objective from substantial to modest based
on the paucity and unreliability of relevant data and trends, and on the availability of new
evidence since the ICR was produced; and (iii) efficiency from substantial to modest
because the pre- and post-project economic analyses was based largely on expected
benefits, whose achievements could not be verified.

       Risk to development outcome is rated significant. Political and technical risks
are moderate. Financial, institutional, governance and social risks are all significant.

        Overall Bank performance is Moderately Satisfactory. Quality at Entry is
Moderately Satisfactory. The project design was grounded in the 2006 health Policy
Note, which has been noted by a wide range of informants to be of high technical quality
and relevant to the challenges and issues the sector was facing. The implementation
arrangements appropriately supported project management by a line Department within
MoH. The design gave due attention to poverty dimensions of health sector reform.
Quality of Supervision is Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank’s supervision missions
were sufficiently frequent and systematic. Supervision of fiduciary aspects was also
thorough. The quality of the Bank’s team has been widely acclaimed. Over and above
work on the follow-on health operation, the Bank was very supportive and proactive in
ensuring adequate transition arrangements when the new Government took power in
2013.

         Overall Borrower performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory. Government
performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory. Government provided 140 percent of its
original counterpart commitment. But rapid turnover of Ministers, consequent rapid
turnover of senior and well-qualified technical staff, and the appointment of unqualified
staff to key positions for political reasons seriously undermined health sector capacity to
                                             xiv


implement reforms, institutional memory and investments in capacity building. Project
implementation was very slow. Tensions between MoH and HII affected project
performance. Implementing Agency performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The
project implementation unit within MoH carried out well most aspects of project
management, including financial management, procurement, reporting and
disbursements. Quarterly and annual reports on the project performance were submitted
on time.

        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was Modest. The original M&E design
had baselines, annual targets, data sources, frequency of collection and responsibilities all
spelled out. Attempts to simplify indicators during the restructuring weakened the M&E
design. M&E implementation fell short of expectations because of the lack of timely,
reliable data and ill-defined indicators. Even though project M&E did not generate
reliable data for decision-making, the performance data developed under the HII
performance-based bonuses for PHC had a positive effect on the use of data for decision-
making. But the use was limited to the financing of bonuses. There was no apparent use
of data at district, regional or central levels to assess overall trends or to use them to
enhance progress towards the project objectives.

Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (DPL)

        DPL objectives were to support policy changes to (i) improve the effectiveness of
social safety nets, and (ii) enhance the efficiency and equity of health spending, in a
fiscally sustainable environment. The DPL was also intended to enhance transparency
and accountability by supporting policies to improve the administration of social
assistance programs and promoting the use of systematic formulas to allocate resources in
selected social programs and services.

        The DPL was designed to support legislative reform in two policy areas. First, in
support of social safety net effectiveness, the DPL was to support: (a) measures to
improve targeting of the NE Social Assistance Program; (b) changes to limit the rapidly
increasing share of the disability component of social assistance spending; (c) the
introduction of bonuses for beneficiary families to enroll children in school and ensure
daily attendance that could enhance the Program’s effectiveness for reducing poverty in
the long-run; and (d) amendment of NE legislation, mandating the creation of a national
registry of all applicants and beneficiaries. Second, in support of health spending
efficiency and equity, the DPL was to support: (a) the amendment of the health insurance
legislation to grant health insurance coverage to all beneficiaries of the NE social
assistance program and to establish the principle of an explicit package of benefits for
beneficiaries, providing the basis for assessing the cost of benefits; (b) a more systematic
approach to health financing, including provisions to maintain the payroll contribution for
health insurance at 3.4 percent and to establish that transfers from the Treasury to HII on
behalf of the uninsured would be based on the cost of providing a basic package of
services; and (3) the development and co-signature (by HII and hospitals) of hospital
performance contracts to support HII in its newly assigned role as sole purchaser of
health services.
                                            xv


         Upon satisfactory fulfillment of two effectiveness conditions (all prior actions
taken; and the adequacy of the macroeconomic policy framework), the loan was declared
effective on August 25, 2011, at which time the single tranche of US$25 million was
disbursed. The project was closed on April 30, 2012. Achievement of economic and
fiscal targets fell short of expectations. Against a target for annual GDP growth rate of 6
percent by 2012, actual growth rates were 3.5 percent in 2010, 3.0 percent in 2011 and
0.8 percent (estimated) in 2012; and they are projected to average 2 percent per annum
during the period 2012-2015. Macroeconomic targets set under the DPL were overly
optimistic, especially in light of considerably more modest forecasts (of 3.2 percent for
2011 and 3.6 percent for 2012) made by the International Monetary Fund’s Article IV
Mission of 2010. The consequences of the financial crisis appear to have been apparent
by mid-2011 when the loan was approved

        The project’s outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The project’s
objectives are highly relevant to Albania’s country conditions as well as to national and
World Bank strategies. Project design is substantially relevant with a clear causal chain
containing technical and strategic support to the objectives, and an appropriate choice of
the DPL instrument, complementing (i) the technical support of the Bank’s analytic work,
technical assistance, and policy dialogue; and (ii) the health and social assistance
investment operations designed to support reform implementation. The health policy area
had some design shortcomings, however. The objective to support policy changes to
improve the effectiveness of social safety nets was substantially achieved.
Government’s prior actions established a sound legislative framework for improving the
effectiveness of social safety nets. Under the Social Assistance Modernization Project
(SAMP) (approved on April 2012) implementation of social assistance reform is well
underway, with strong Government commitment, after some initial delays caused by the
elections and the installation of the new Government. While ambitious outcome
indicators established under the DPL have not yet been achieved, strong Government
commitment and good implementation progress provide strong indication that they are
likely to be achieved. Evidence is strong that without the DPL the social assistance
legislation may not have been passed at all. At the very least it would have experienced
long delays and its quality would have suffered.

        The objective to support policy changes to enhance the efficiency and equity of
health spending was modestly achieved. Improved health spending efficiency has not
yet been achieved, and implementation support to this end has ceased with the closing of
HSMP. Prior actions established a sound legislative framework for improving the
efficiency of health spending, including: more predictable fiscal rules to finance health;
transferred responsibility of financing hospitals to HII; and the signature of performance
contracts between HII and the 42 hospitals in Albania. However, implementation of this
new framework supported under the HSMP has been mixed, and outcomes have not been
achieved; and they are not likely to be achieved without new support. Cost of services is
not yet used as a basis for public transfers to HII because the definition and costing of
services packages offered at different levels of the referral system is still ongoing.
Ninety-five percent of hospital financing is still channeled through the Treasury and paid
on the basis of expenditure receipts, not performance. HII is responsible for distributing
only 5 percent of hospital budgets for 41 of the 42 hospitals. The only exception is the
                                            xvi


Durres Regional Hospital, which is financed by HII on the basis of a performance
contract and supported by USAID and others.

        Improved equity of health spending has not yet been achieved, and
implementation support to this end has ceased with the closing of HSMP. An additional
prior action established a sound legislative framework for improving the equity of health
spending: the passage of legislation to extend health insurance coverage to social
assistance beneficiaries. However, this measure has not been implemented to date,
largely due to fiscal concerns. Government’s new vision of universal health care
financed by the State may well succeed in extending health care coverage to these poor
groups, but the feasibility and affordability of this vision needs to be assessed. In the
meantime, the target of 100 percent coverage of NE recipients has not been achieved; and
the outcome associated with reductions in health spending by the poor is difficult to
document, and could not in any case be attributed to this legislation, which has not yet
been implemented. Respondents were mixed in assessing the counterfactual of the health
legislation in the absence of the DPL because (i) this legislation had been developed,
refined and vetted with a range of actors and stakeholders within MoH and with higher
echelons of Government, with technical assistance under the HSMP, and (ii)
Government-wide commitment to its passage was already strong.

        There is a marked difference between this PPAR’s moderately satisfactory
rating of the project’s outcome and IEG’s unsatisfactory rating of the project’s
outcome based on its 2013 desk review of the Region’s Implementation Completion
and Results Report. This PPAR upgraded IEG’s initial ratings of: (i) design from
modest to substantial because the underlying logic and the good choice of instrument
became more evident during the course of the field work, especially for social assistance,
and the choice of outcome indicators and targets, while overly ambitious, was more of an
M&E design issue, not reason enough for a modest rating; and (ii) efficacy of the first
(social assistance) objective from modest to substantial because of continued, notable
progress in social assistance reform implementation and increased likelihood of achieving
related outcome targets, albeit with delays. Both the 2013 desk review and this PPAR
rate efficacy of the second (health) objective modest, but the 2013 exercise rates two sub-
objectives, whereas the PPAR provides one rating for the health objective.

        Risk to Development Outcome is Moderate overall. Financial risk is
significant. But institutional and political risks are moderate.

        Bank Performance is Moderately Satisfactory, overall. Quality at entry is
Moderately Satisfactory. The quality of preparation and design is grounded in the high
quality of the analytic work and sector dialogue of the Bank. The Bank’s inputs and
processes were intensive and supportive during the two-year preparation period. But the
outcome targets were unrealistic. Quality of supervision is Moderately Satisfactory. The
Bank was well focused on the development impact of the reforms. A moderate
shortcoming was the quality in reporting on the project achievements, likely linked to the
problem of overly ambitious outcome indicators established

       Borrower Performance is Moderately Satisfactory, overall. Government
performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance and the Prime
                                            xvii


Minister were committed to the DPL and oversaw reform design and its passage in
Parliament. Failure to take recommended measures to maintain fiscal stability under the
DPL and to release the LSMS 2012 data in a timely fashion were two shortcomings, the
latter undermining the monitoring and evaluation of results. Performance of the
Implementing Agencies is Moderately Satisfactory. Both technical ministries were
involved, informed and motivated to prepare the legislation. The Ministry of Social
Welfare and Youth is engaged in its successful implementation under the SAMP, but
MoH follow-through in the implementation of health financing reform was lacking.

        Monitoring and Evaluation was Modest. The two sets of short-term indicators
established for the DPL were too ambitious for the short timeframe and some were
difficult to measure due to the infrequency of the LSMS exercises. Because the outcome
indicators were more dependent upon the follow-on implementation assistance (and the
continued unavailability of the LSMS 2012 results), there was very limited
implementation of M&E during the project’s short life.

Lessons

       This combined evaluation of the HSMP and the Social Sector DPL has revealed a
number of cross-cutting lessons. Both projects: were grounded in analytic work and
technical assistance; supported far-reaching reforms; sought to exploit synergies across
various forms of Bank support and lending instruments; and faced a range of challenges
inherent in reform implementation.

   The high quality of the Bank’s analytic work and technical assistance is necessary but
    not sufficient for their effectiveness. Also important are the involvement and buy-in
    of the Government and other key stakeholders and the strategic packaging of this
    support with other Bank products and services.

   One-tranche DPLs can be transformative and support reform momentum if (i) they
    build on solid analytic work; (ii) they can effectively leverage critical policy change
    that may not gain sufficient traction through sector dialogue alone; and (iii) they are
    supported by continuity in the sector policy dialogue and lending after the DPL
    closes.

   Political economy is critical to factor into reform design and risk management.
    Neglect of some aspects of political economy is likely to have undermined prospects
    for the full and successful implementation of health reforms under the HSMP.

   The sequencing of reforms under the Social Assistance DPL and its follow-on
    implementation support is likely to have mitigated potential implementation setbacks
    associated with political feasibility, capacity and fiscal constraints.

   The design and implementation of pilots to test and fine-tune reforms and the
    establishment of well-functioning management information systems and M&E
    systems are critical to health and social assistance reform, as they can accommodate
                                       xviii


learning, provide evidence of the feasibility and benefits of such reform and garner
political support.




                                                               Caroline Heider
                                                               Director-General
                                                                  Evaluation
                                                       1


1. Background and Context
           General Background.1

1.1     Albania has been a development success story in many respects. Over the past two
decades the country has made enormous strides in establishing a credible multi-party
democracy and market economy and it is rapidly re-integrating into the international and
European communities. In addition, from the late 1990s and well into the new millennium,
Albania was one of the fastest growing countries in Europe, enjoying average annual real
growth rate of 6 percent, accompanied by a rapid reduction in poverty. Between 2002 and
2008 poverty fell by half (to about 12.4 percent), with extreme poverty affecting under 2
percent of the population. In mid-2008 Albania graduated from IDA. With the onset of the
global financial and economic crisis Albania’s growth rate was significantly reduced.
Nevertheless, it is one of very few countries in Europe, which was able to maintain positive
growth rates and financial stability since 2009 in spite of the economic downturn. Albania’s
prospects for continued growth depend upon: (i) early resumption of fiscal consolidation and
strengthened public expenditure management; (ii) regulatory and institutional reforms to
boost competitiveness and investment; (iii) improvements in education levels and skills to
meet the demand from business; (iv) reduction of infrastructure deficits in a fiscally
sustainable way; and (v) improvements in the effectiveness of social protection systems and
key health services to avert new vulnerability risks that could arise as a result of the slow
recovery. Reducing its vulnerability to climate change will also be critical.

1.2    Albania’s political environment had been marked by tense relations between the
opposition and the coalition Government, following the Parliamentary elections held in June
2009. The Socialist Party, which received about one percentage point less of the vote than
the Democratic Party, had refused to take its seats in Parliament, demanding a partial
recount, and staged a 19-day hunger strike in May 2010. Shared aspirations of achieving EU
membership and mid-2010 pressure from the European parliament facilitated a resumption of
the opposition’s participation in Parliament. The Socialist Party won a landslide victory in
the June 2013 general elections; and in September 2013 Socialist Leader Edi Rama became
Prime Minister.

1.3     Albania’s development priorities over the past six years have been guided by its
National Strategy for Development and Integration (2007-2013) (Box 1.1.). A new strategy
prepared by the former Government, with the participation of all parties, and slightly revised
by the current Government demonstrates well that the prospect of EU membership continues
to be pivotal in easing political tensions between the parties and in consolidating gains and
further strengthening Albania’s political, economic and social prospects.




1
    Source: Country Partnership Strategy for Albania for the Period FY11-FY14, June 16, 2010.
                                                          2


Box 1.1. Albania’s National Strategy for Development and Integration 2007-2013
In 2007 Albania approved the National Strategy for Development and Integration for 2007-2013, which
was developed through a participatory process, involving stakeholders throughout the country. The NSDI
aimed to (i) integrate the country into the EU and NATO; (ii) develop and consolidate the democratic state,
notably through electoral, judicial and property rights reform; and (iii) achieve rapid, balanced and
sustainable economic, human and social development. The NSDI established target growth rates of 6-7
percent and aimed to reduce the poverty headcount to below 10 percent by 2013. It states that
macroeconomic stability is to be supported by fiscal consolidation and reduction of debt. Infrastructure
investments concentrated on roads and transport, energy, and water supply and sanitation. In the social
services, the Government aimed to increase secondary education enrolment to 76 percent, introduce a basic
package of covered health benefits, strengthen the coverage of the social assistance, and reform the public
pension system. Following the 2009 Parliamentary elections, the Government reiterated the focus on the
water sector (including water supply and sanitation, as well as irrigation for improved agricultural
productivity) and the health sector, where resources would be concentrated in the next 2-4 years.
Source: Country Partnership Strategy for Albania for the Period FY11-FY14, June 16, 2010.


Social Assistance

1.4     Issues and Challenges. A World Bank Social Assistance Policy Note prepared in
2010 found that, at 1.6 percent of GDP, total spending on social assistance in Albania was
comparable to the regional average for Europe and Central Asia (ECA). Two main social
assistance schemes accounted for the majority of this spending: (1) the Ndihme Ekonomika
(NE) program, which is the main poverty-targeted social assistance benefit, and (2) disability
assistance benefits. The relative balance in spending on these two programs had shifted
significantly, however. Between 2000 and 2008, disability benefits increased from 0.4
percent to 0.9 percent of GDP, arising both from an increase in certified beneficiaries and
from an increase in the size of the benefits. Disability legislation was found to be scattered,
medical eligibility criteria outdated, and the system for assessing and certifying disability
cases deficient and open to conflicts of interest. Growth in disability assistance benefits had
been accompanied by a contraction in spending on the poverty-targeted NE program, which
had fallen from 0.8 percent to 0.3 percent of GDP during the same timeframe.

1.5     The targeting accuracy of the NE program was found to be respectable in terms of
relatively low leakages to the non-poor2 and about average for countries in the ECA region.
But there were issues with coverage, benefit adequacy and design features that undermined
program equity, efficiency and transparency. Coverage of the poor was low, due to fiscal
constraints (exacerbated by ballooning expenditures on disability benefits) and to a high
degree of errors of exclusion. Specifically, NE only reached 22 percent of the poor in 2008,
a decline from the 36 percent coverage achieved in 2005. Benefit adequacy (generosity) was
quite low, accounting for just 14 percent of total post-transfer consumption of the poorest
beneficiaries. The level of benefits eroded over the period 2000-2007. Low coverage and


2
 Over half (56 percent) of benefits paid out were received by those in the poorest quintile and 82 percent of
benefits go to those in the poorest two quintiles. This is about average for the ECA region, whose countries
show a range of benefits paid out to the poorest quintile from about 30 percent (Russia and Latvia) to about 80
percent (Ukraine and Romania). In terms of leakages, the share of benefits captured by the wealthiest quintile
was 6 percent.
                                              3


benefit inadequacy limited the impact of the NE program on poverty, bringing only 0.4
percent of the pre-transfer poor above the poverty line.

1.6      Over and above increasing budget constraints, a number of design and
implementation features further undermined the NE program outcomes. First, geographic
targeting allocations (block grants) were based on a combination of poverty estimates and
historical numbers of beneficiaries for each municipality, but they were not clear and
somewhat ad hoc, raising issues of equity and transparency. Second, individual eligibility
screening, carried out by municipalities, used multiple filters, which differed between urban
and rural areas. There was no objective “weighting” across numerous filters, which were
applied in an ad hoc way and resulted in the exclusion of otherwise poor households if they
failed to meet any one of these filters. Multi-layered filters introduced distortions into the
eligibility process both within and across urban and rural areas, resulting in large errors of
exclusion and potentially generating adverse incentives. Third, inadequate indexation of
benefit levels and eligibility thresholds, and inconsistency with other social assistance
benefits have contributed to eroding value of NE benefits, a decline in coverage and
relevance of the program. Fourth, benefits administration was hampered by weak capacity,
information systems and oversights and controls. The lack of an automated national registry
of applicants and beneficiaries resulted in: (a) inefficiencies in applying for and awarding
benefits (with high transaction costs); (b) weaknesses in oversight and controls of fraud and
errors; and (c) ineffective monitoring and evaluation of social policy.

1.7    Social Assistance Priorities. A number of measures were identified as opportunities
to improve the equity, efficiency and transparency of benefits:

   basing geographic allocations on objective poverty criteria: Transparency and equity
    could be improved through a standardization of the geographic allocation of block grants
    across municipalities on the basis of an updated poverty map;
   strengthening and standardizing household screening criteria using a continuous
    scoring formula: Eligibility criteria could be standardized and improved by: eliminating
    the use of one-off binary filters; and (b) strengthening individual assessment criteria
    using a single continuous scoring formula that incorporates objective weights and
    variables empirically associated with poverty status (hybrid means testing), which could
    be adapted for urban (non-farming) and rural (farming) areas. Such a move could reduce
    errors of inclusion, reduce errors of exclusion (poor families denied benefits due to
    application of ad hoc filters) and improve transparency in the system;
   introducing indexation: This would involve the linking of benefits and eligibility
    thresholds to consumer price inflation;
   strengthening benefits administration: This would include: (a) automating information
    systems and creating a national registry of all applicants and beneficiaries; (b)
    simplifying and standardizing intake and application procedures; (c) improving
    monitoring, oversight and controls to reduce fraud and errors; (d) possibly shifting
    eligibility decisions to the central government. These improvements would not only
    improve effectiveness (equity, efficiency) but would also boost transparency and thereby
    serve a political role, helping the Government to be more accountable to the people; and
                                                    4


   improving the links between the NE and other programs: Both on the administration
    and policy sides, links (e.g., linking safety nets beneficiaries to activation services) could
    further contribute to the intended objectives of efficiency and effectiveness.

1.8     2013 Social Assistance Update.3 Building on international experience and a
technical partnership with the World Bank, Albania has since taken important steps to
improve social assistance program effectiveness. An ambitious reform program is in place to
strengthen the design, administration and governance of these transfers. The objectives of
this reform program focus on improving the equity and efficiency of the NE program and
disability assistance benefits, with the purpose of reducing extreme poverty through: (i)
introduction of a unified scoring formula for NE eligibility that incorporates objective
weights and variables that are empirically associated with poverty status to reduce errors of
exclusion and to improve transparency and revision of eligibility criteria for disability
benefits to ensure they reach the truly disabled and vulnerable; (ii) establishment of a
Management Information System for both programs to automate and modernize benefits
administration; and (iii) strengthening of the system for preventing, detecting, and remedying
fraud and errors, which would also improve efficiency for both programs. The World Bank
is supporting Albania in the implementation of the social assistance reforms through the
Social Assistance Modernization project.

Health Sector

1.9      Issues and Challenges. In 2006 the World Bank undertook an in-depth analysis of
Albania’s health sector to underpin the preparation of a new health project. It documented
the historical shaping of the health care system, characterized by strong central government
control prior to the transition, and the consequences on the health system of civil unrest in
1997 and the Kosovo crisis in 1999. Reforms attempted in the mid-1990s to address some of
the sector’s weaknesses had seen only limited progress, including: reduction in the
(overextended) provider network capacity; decentralization of primary care management to
district public health directorates and its integration with public health functions; the
privatization of the pharmaceutical sector and most dental care; and establishment of the
Health Insurance Institute (HII), in view of a gradual aspired change of the health financing
system. Substantial improvement of the quality of the primary care system through physical
investments and skills upgrading was also envisaged, but interrupted by the Kosovo crisis.
Pilot projects on provider organization and financing undertaken in the early 2000s yielded
valuable lessons. And some progress on pharmaceutical policy was also made.

1.10 Nevertheless, the 2006 sector analysis pointed to significant challenges in responding
to Albania’s changing demographic and epidemiological profile. First, Albania’s health
outcomes compared favorably with those of lower middle-income countries outside the
Europe and Central Asia region, but lagged behind those of other countries in the South East
European Region, despite progress achieved. Albania’s demographic and epidemiological
profile was changing with the relative burden of infections diseases decreasing and non-

3
 World Bank Group Policy Brief on Improving Poverty Monitoring and Social Assistance, prepared for the
briefing of the new Government, September 2013.
                                                5


communicable diseases becoming the leading cause of death among the adult population.
Second, Albania’s health care system was ill-prepared to face the growing incidence of non-
communicable diseases and other new health risks. Third, physical and human resources in
the sector were ill-aligned with the population’s health needs, their inequitable distribution
causing large variations in coverage across districts and regions.

1.11 Fourth, productivity in the health sector was low, both for primary and hospital care,
with substantial variation across regions and individual facilities. Furthermore, a large
number of small hospitals with low utilization and occupancy rates revealed an inefficient
hospital structure. Fifth, quality of health care was low, particularly at the primary care level.
A survey on reproductive health found that quality and coverage of prenatal care was a
serious concern and ranked among the lowest in the ECA region. Health personnel were
isolated and lacked in-service training to upgrade their skills. Quality improvement was a
core objective of the Government’s Health Sector Strategy of 2004. Sixth, in light of a small
but growing private health care sector, the need to strengthen the regulatory framework took
on more prominence.

1.12 Seventh, building on progress made in the pharmaceutical sector, further steps were
necessary to contain costs, improve the transparency of decision-making and strengthen
quality assurance. Substantial steps were taken to improve transparency along the
distribution chain and to institute cost containment on HII reimbursed drugs. Eighth, low
income groups were unprotected from health shocks and easily thrown into poverty as a
result of out-of-pocket (OOP) spending on health care. The 6 percent of GDP which Albania
spends on health care is in line with the average for lower middle-income countries, but
Albania’s public sector contributes a below average share to these expenditures. The high
share of OOP payments at the point of service and outside an overall health finance
framework created serious inequities in access, had a considerable poverty impact and
limited effectiveness of the Government’s sectoral stewardship. Ninth, the health financing
system was fragmented. It neither gave providers incentives for efficiency and quality
improvements nor did it establish clear lines of accountability. The continued fragmentation
of the health finance system and at times unclear assignment of financing responsibilities had
resulted in a lack of accountability for sectoral performance in general and individual
providers’ performance in particular.

1.13 Health Sector Priorities in 2006. This analysis culminated in the identification of a
prioritized agenda for improving health sector performance. The main challenge for
Albania’s health sector was to consolidate the achievements in health outcomes to date, while
establishing capacity to effectively address the growing incidence of non-communicable
diseases and affording low-income groups better protection from impoverishing health
expenditures. This would require fundamental changes in the way health care is financed,
delivered, and organized, with efforts clustering around three core pillars:

   more efficient resource mobilization and allocation, including, inter alia: pooling all
    public sector resources under one funding agency, clearly defining the health care benefit,
    which will be made available from public funds and introducing copayment for a wider
    range of services, rooting out informal payments, increasing resources for public health
    and health information, shifting to a population-based regional allocation of funding,
                                                    6


    improving the balance between public and private spending to protect the population
    from health shocks, using a hospital map to guide any future investment in hospital
    infrastructure, and developing regional primary health care plans;
   improvements in the quality and efficiency of health service delivery, including:
    consolidating pilot efforts to improve clinical effectiveness and quality of care, shifting
    from input-based financing of health care providers to performance-based payments,
    establishing a quality assurance system, and consolidating reforms in the pharmaceutical
    sector; and
   improvements in sector management and stewardship, including: defining roles and
    responsibilities of all actors and establishing accountability mechanisms, reviewing the
    potential role of regional health authorities and making a decision about their future,
    evaluating the feasibility of independent contracts with general practitioners for primary
    care and other organizational arrangements, increasing hospital autonomy and
    intensifying efforts to systematize and use population feedback and community
    participation in the design and implementation of reforms and in monitoring sector
    performance. The changes in the organization and financing of health care require
    capacity building of health care providers, HII and the Ministry of Health (MoH).

1.14 Soon after this sector analysis was issued, Government articulated four strategic
priorities in its “Health System Strategy 2007-2013,” which are consistent with the above-
identified priorities: (1) increase the capacity to manage services and facilities in an efficient
way; (2) increase access to effective health services; (3) improve health system financing;
and (4) improve health system governance.

1.15 2013 Health Update.4 Health outcomes are relatively strong by regional standards,
with life expectancy at birth reaching 77 years by 2011 (80 for women and 74 for men). The
Mediterranean diet has been posited as a major explanation for these relatively good
indicators. Cardiovascular disease is the major source of the disease burden, major risk
factors including tobacco use and hypertension. The most recent (2008) Demographic and
Health Survey (DHS) revealed that 80 percent of women and 90 percent of men with
hypertension were not aware of their status and less than 3 percent were both aware of their
high blood pressure and had it under control through treatment, indicating substantial room
for improvement of health system performance. Child health indicators (infant and neo-natal
mortality at 18 and 11 per 1,000 live births, respectively, 2008 DHS) are slightly higher than
comparable statistics for other countries in southeastern Europe. The quality of medical care
at all levels of the health system remains a major issue in Albania.

1.16 Financial protection of households against high OOP payments is relatively weak.
OOP payments for health care continue to be substantial in Albania with important
implications for household budgets; and they also result in significant inequality. A
combination of measures will be needed to reduce Albania’s reliance on OOP payments and
improve financial protection, especially increased Government spending on health.
However, such increases may not be feasible within the current difficult fiscal environment.

4
 World Bank Group Policy Note on Albania Health Sector, prepared for briefing the new Government,
September 2013.
                                               7


Nevertheless, other measures could help, especially reduction of informal payments,
including stronger accountability of providers, government oversight and empowerment of
patients with information about what they should pay. Additionally, clear drug lists,
treatment protocols, generic promotion and price regulation could help reduce unnecessary or
wasteful pharmaceutical expenditures.

1.17 Health spending is not very efficient, which is a critical issue especially in the current
difficult fiscal environment. Common sources of waste include excess hospital infrastructure
and high pharmaceutical spending. Variation in outputs and outcomes across different
providers and services are not sufficiently tracked or addressed. Inequitable distribution of
health services remains an issue, as do continued inefficiencies in the use of the referral
system.

1.18 A major priority for the health financing agenda should be stronger revenue
mobilization and pooling of health care resources, subject to the availability of resources in a
difficult fiscal environment. This would address the persistently high reliance on OOP
payments for public sector services, especially by the poor, an inefficient and inequitable
method of health finance. Albania’s new Government is now considering the option of
transitioning from primarily payroll-financed to general tax-financed health system.
Currently, provider payment methods rely more heavily on input-based approaches than is
the case in more advanced health systems. A shift towards outcome-based approaches may
help improve health outcomes and efficiency.

World Bank and Other Support to Health and Social Assistance

1.19 World Bank Support. Annex D shows three clusters of World Bank support
relevant to the evaluation of the social assistance and health projects that are the subject of
this review. Three Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits, approved, respectively, in 2002,
2003 and 2004 and totaling US$48 million in IDA credit, supported implementation of
Albania’s poverty reduction strategy, with a particular focus on policies for improving the
quality of life, especially for the poor, and for improving the accountability and performance
of social sector service delivery. The outcomes of all three projects were in the satisfactory
range.

1.20 The Bank’s first investment in social insurance and social assistance program reform
was through the Social Safety Net project, approved some 20 years ago, in 1993. This
project succeeded in consolidating reform of these programs and bringing social policies in
line with a decentralized democratic society and a transitional economy. The Social Services
Delivery Project, approved in 2001, made important headway in improving standards of
living for the poor and vulnerable by increasing their access to well-targeted and effective
social care services and improving social policy. The Social Sector Reform Development
Policy Loan (evaluated in this PPAR) was approved in 2011 to support policy changes to
improve the effectiveness of social safety nets and enhance the efficiency and equity of
health spending in a fiscally sustainable environment. Lessons incorporated into its design
highlighted the importance of: complementing this policy loan with implementation support
and technical assistance under investment operations; a focus on two (social) sectors versus
many sectors; and strong government ownership. The ongoing Social Assistance
                                               8


Modernization Project (SAMP), approved in 2012, is supporting Albania’s implementation
of reforms to improve the equity and efficiency of its social assistance programs. Total
World Bank investment in social protection, including the ongoing SAMP, amounts to
US$95.5 million, of which $15.5 million was IDA credits and US$80 million IBRD loans.

1.21 The Bank has invested in Albania’s health sector through four projects over 20 years,
with credits totaling about US$50.0 million. Approved in 1994, the Health Services
Rehabilitation project aimed to help prevent deterioration in health status during the
economic transition by improving the quality of basic health care. The Health System
Recovery and Development project, approved in 1998 and overlapping with the first project,
supported strengthening of institutional and human resource capacities and aimed to improve
quality, accessibility and efficiency of essential health services. Its moderately unsatisfactory
outcome culminated in lessons, among which the importance of: (i) including benchmarks
among M&E indicators; (ii) continuity in key leadership positions; and (iii) including
significant, focused technical assistance and capacity building activities. Drawing on these
lessons, the Health System Modernization Project (HSMP), approved in 2006 and the subject
of this PPAR, aimed to improve: the capacity of the Ministry of Health and the HII to
effectively formulate and implement health policies and reforms; access to and quality of
primary health care services, especially for the poor and underserved; and hospital
governance. Also approved in 2006, and closed in 2010, the Avian Influenza Control Project
had a moderately satisfactory outcome.

1.22 Other main actors supporting Albania’s health system improvements include:
USAID, the Italian Cooperation, the OPEC Fund, the Swiss Development Cooperation,
SIDA, UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO. Working especially closely with the Bank: (1) USAID
provides technical and financial support to improve primary health care services and to
inform and implement sector reform, especially in the areas of health financing, quality
assurance, hospital management and health information systems; (2) the Swiss Development
Cooperation supports health services quality, especially through training and the
establishment and support of the Continuing Medical Education (CME) system, and primary
health care services; WHO provides technical advice and backstopping on the control of
specific diseases, health systems strengthening, stewardship and performance management,
and, in collaboration with the Bank, undertakes a development partner coordinating function.
The Bank is the only major donor supporting social assistance reform.
                                               9


2. Health System Modernization Project
A. Objectives, Design and Their Relevance

2.1     Project Development Objectives (PDOs). As stated in the Financing Agreement
(FA) (April 22, 2006), “The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the physical and
financial access to, and use of, high quality primary health care services; (b) to improve the
Recipient’s capacity to formulate and implement health policies and reforms in the health
sector; and (c) to improve hospital governance and management.” The Project Appraisal
Document (PAD)’s statement of objectives is fully consistent with that of the FA, but
provides more detail on the project’s intent, including: an emphasis on improving primary
health care for the poor and under-serviced areas; and the expectation of reductions in the
unnecessary use of secondary and tertiary care facilities through improved PHC services.
The objectives remained unchanged throughout the life of the project.

2.2     Relevance of Objectives is rated High. First, these objectives are very responsive
to current country conditions. Physical and financial access to quality services at the primary
level may have improved somewhat in the past few years, but remain issues, especially for
the poor and in remote areas. MoH and HII have articulated and begun to implement health
financing and health systems performance policies and reform, but there is still an important
agenda for additional sector reform and its implementation. Staff turnover and the election
of a new Government, with its vision of continued and deepening health financing and health
system reform, indicate continued strong relevance of capacity building in reform design and
implementation. Weak hospital governance and management remain critical impediments to
expenditure efficiencies.

2.3     Second, the objectives are highly relevant to Albania’s strategic priorities. Albania’s
Health Sector Strategy is articulated around four priorities to improve: efficient management
of services and facilities; access to effective health services; health system financing; and
health system governance. The recently elected government has embraced these priorities
and stands ready to continue efforts and reforms aimed at service quality, access and
affordability; greater equity and efficiency of financing; and enhanced autonomy and
management of services. Third, the second pillar of the World Bank’s current Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the period FY11-FY14 aims to improve social service
delivery, with a focus on: poor people’s access; governance issues; spending efficiencies; and
decentralized service delivery. The World Bank’s health strategy aims to: (1) improve health
outcomes, particularly for the poor and vulnerable; (2) prevent poverty due to illness; (3)
improve financial sustainability in the health sector; and (4) improve health sector
governance, accountability and transparency.
                                                        10


Box 2.1. Health System Modernization Project Components
Component A – Strengthening Sector Stewardship, Financing and Purchasing (estimated cost at
appraisal: US$7.7 million; total actual cost: US$4.7 million) was designed to help the HII develop its
capacity as the sole purchaser of health services, and to support capacity building to strengthen the
stewardship role of the MoH, the Institute of Public Health (IPH) and the HII. Activities were to include:
(i) capacity building in the HII and its local branches; (ii) strengthening the policy formulation and
performance monitoring functions within the MoH and the IPH; (iii) development of health information
systems to support payment and management reforms; (iv) development and implementation of a system to
monitor provider performance (both clinical and financial); (v) establishing a licensing/re-licensing scheme
for physicians and health facilities and an accreditation program for hospitals; (vi) development of Health
Technology Assessment (HTA) capacity; and (vii) building up MoH capacity in financial management,
procurement and project coordination.
Component B – Improving PHC Delivery (estimated cost at appraisal: US$10.1 million, total actual
cost: US$12.5 million) was designed to support institutional reforms and limited investments aimed at
improving quality of care among health care providers and in health facilities. The Program aimed to: (i)
facilitate registration of the population with the HII and enrolment with a primary care physician, together
with related public information campaigns;5 (ii) build practice management capacity at the primary care
level; (iii) develop and introduce clinical guidelines with an initial focus on primary care and the primary-
secondary care interface and the most pressing issues (e.g., child health, antenatal care, respiratory
infections); (iv) establish a continuing medical education system (CME) and link this to the re-licensing
scheme; (v) retrain existing general practitioners and pediatricians in evidence-based treatment of common
conditions and rational drugs use, based on clinical guidelines; (vi) provide basic equipment to physicians
who complete the retraining program; and (vii) establish a grant facility to fund proposals from primary
care providers in support of quality of care and continuum of care improvement initiatives.
Component C – Strengthening Hospital Governance and Management (estimated cost at appraisal:
US$1.3 million; total actual cost: US$1.8 million) was designed to provide initial steps to improve
hospital operations and direction by focusing on (i) the development and introduction of accounting and
internal control structures for hospital care providers and training in hospital management; (ii) developing
the regulatory framework, including by-laws and regulations to support the move of MoH hospitals to the
status of autonomous public entities; and (iii) piloting reforms of hospital management and governance
structures in selected hospitals.
Source: PAD p. 6.


2.4     Design. The project supported three components outlined in Box 2.1. Two
restructurings (April 2010 and September 2011) added and dropped activities. Under
Component A the procurement of software for the health information system was dropped
and only the hardware was maintained, due to delays in the system design. Under
Component B: (a) only health insurance cards for children ages 0-16 years were financed,
because Government decided to devote space for health on a new national identification to be
issued by Ministry of Interior to the entire adult population (ages 17 years and older); (b)
financing of the costs of registration/enrollment was dropped because of delays in the design
of the information system; (c) purchasing of specialized medical equipment (mammography
equipment and autoclaves) was added for selected main hospitals, along with medical
equipment for regional hospitals and Tirana University Hospital; (d) a national
communication strategy for health was added; and (e) the quality grant facility was dropped

5
  To promote a rapid registration and enrolment process, associated costs were to be reimbursed on an output
basis, including the cost of the registration card, plus an estimate of the additional staff needed to register each
individual. Staff costs were to reflect the incremental HII staff time needed to process each
registration/enrollment, using average salaries. The amount was to be agreed to by the Bank prior to the release
of disbursements.
                                                11


due to lack of action and interest on the part of Government. Two activities were added to
Component C: technical assistance to prepare and implement the privatization of all non-
medical activities in the regional hospitals; and pilot testing of the hospital rationalization
strategy in two selected districts.

2.5     Relevance of Design is rated Modest. The results chain for achieving PDO 1 was
somewhat weak. In support of improved quality of services, interventions were appropriate
both at the policy level (supporting licensing and accreditation functions and processes and
the production of Clinical Practice Guidelines) and at the facility level (training of service
providers in the application of CPGs, provision of basic equipment for services, a quality
innovation grant, and bonuses for service providers on the proper delivery of priority
services). But there were shortcomings. The links between investments and the goals of
physical and financial access were not entirely clear, nor were the links among the several
loosely related sub-objectives embedded in this objective. Registration and enrolment of the
population is a necessary administrative step to underpin the transformation of health
financing for PHC, whereby budgets are determined on the basis of capitation versus inputs.
Enrolment with a primary physician is not necessarily indicative of having no previous
access to that physician or of improved access. Other than the provision of PHC equipment,
there were no interventions to address the main impediments to physical access, including the
inequitable distribution of PHC centers and providers, low physician to population ratios
especially in rural areas, and issues associated with the affordability and availability of
essential drugs, among others. Training and other support appeared to be limited to
physicians, even though nurses play a critical role in the delivery of PHC. Financial access
was to be improved by stepping up health insurance registration and clarity on pricing of
services. But a formidable impediment to financial access – informal payments – was not
squarely addressed. A public campaign to inform the population about the proper use of the
referral system and related health insurance incentives was inadequate to change behavior.
The assumption that knowledge of the rules would incite the proper behavior was weak.

2.6     The results chain for achieving PDO 2 also had some shortcomings. The goal of
strengthening financing and purchasing of health services under a single agency was
appropriately supported with planned activities under the project. While the goal of
strengthening sector stewardship was well supported with critical intermediate outcomes
(development of a sector strategy, an M&E system and capacities, and a practice of regular
annual sector performance reviews), the project results chain would have been stronger had
the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of key sector institutions been clarified. This is
especially true for MoH, which was transitioning away from financier and overseer of health
services (assumed by HII) to its evolving role as the national authority charged with sector
strategic management and coordination, policy formulation and enforcement. The roles and
capacities of regional and district levels of MoH were also neglected in the design. The roles
and inter-relations between MoH and other health sector institutions, particularly the
National Center for Quality, Safety and Accreditation (NCQSA) and the Institute of Public
Health (IPH), would also have benefited from clarification. These elements were highlighted
as priorities in the Bank’s analytic work, discussed and agreed with MoH in 2006 (para.
1.13). The results chain for PDO 3 was appropriate, involving the development of new
management systems and capacities, the development of a regulatory framework for
autonomy and the piloting of reforms. The overly ambitious timeframe of the project was a
                                               12


design shortcoming. However, on the financial front, the design did hold the potential to
achieve efficiencies in the use of sector resources, especially crucial in the face of fiscal
constraints.

2.7     The two project restructurings further weakened the project’s results chain.
Acquisition of sophisticated cardiology and pediatric surgical equipment for Tirana
University Hospital, specialized medical equipment (mammography and autoclaves) for a
few main hospitals, and equipment for 12 regional hospitals was meant to (a) improve the
quality of referrals between primary and hospital levels; and (b) support the implementation
of the hospital rationalization plan, which recommended the strengthening of the regional
hospitals. But neither these purchases nor their rationale directly support the project’s PDOs.
These purchases were added after the project’s mid-term review, when a very low
disbursement rate of 7 percent raised the serious concern of Bank managers, along with their
push to accelerate disbursements or cancel a portion of the credit. The dropping of the
quality grant facility weakened the results chain supporting improvements to service quality.
The dropping of software for the health information system, while maintaining the purchase
of hardware, weakened the results chain for achieving a viable health information system.
The pilot testing of the hospitalization rationalization strategy in two districts was a positive
addition. Annex E, Table E-1 itemizes changes to components and restructuring dates.

2.8     M&E Design. The original M&E design included indicators that were fairly
sufficient to measure progress against the PDOs. Arrangements for results monitoring were
laid out, most baselines were established, target values were set for each project year, and
data collection and reporting were specified on three fronts: frequency and reports; data
collection instruments; and responsibility for data collection. The key performance
indicators and intermediate outcome indicators together had the potential to track progress
against project objectives and link them to project support. The adding and dropping of
indicators under the April 2010 project structuring weakened the M&E design. Project
objectives were not changed, and the rationale for revising the M&E design was to simplify it
and to ensure that indicators were measurable. In actual fact, the indicators that were
dropped were key to understanding progress against objectives (e.g., physician compliance
with clinical practice guidelines) and those that were added were more output or process
oriented (e.g., improved capacity of regional hospitals through supply and functioning of
essential medical equipment, production of health strategy). Moreover, a number of the new
indicators were ill-defined and unclear. In short, the measurement of efficacy was weakened
with these changes. Annex E, Table E-1, provides a tally of both indicators and activities
that were added and dropped for each of the two restructuring exercises: April 2010 and
September 2011. Annex E, Table E-2 compares original and revised indicators.

2.9     Implementation Arrangements. The project was to be implemented by the MoH
and the HII, using existing structures and staff. The Deputy Minister responsible for
international cooperation was executive sponsor, and the Director of the Economic
Department was responsible for handling day to day project management, with support from
foreign and local consultants in the application of World Bank fiduciary procedures. Country
systems would be used to the extent possible. Working groups, and chairpersons, were
appointed by the Minister to focus on each of three substantive areas: health financing;
quality; and governance and management. They were responsible for coordination and
                                                    13


technical management of project activities, including linking with stakeholders beyond the
groups’ members.

2.10 Strengthening of MoH’s reform articulation and implementation was to be
supplemented by international expertise initially. The bulk of this assistance was allocated to
MoH’s Policy and Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation Sectors, IPH’s Public Health
Policy Development Sector and HII’s Service Monitoring Department, among others. The
Chair of Family Medicine was to be developed to take on a leadership role in family
medicine and general PHC training. The Financing Agreement included conditions of
effectiveness requiring ongoing maintenance of these units.

B. Implementation

2.11 Key Dates. Approved by the Board of Directors on March 14, 2006, the IDA credit
became effective on September 7, 2006. The mid-term review took place in December 2008.
Two Level 2 restructurings were approved, respectively, on May 3, 2010 and on October 24,
2011. The first restructuring occurred five months before the project was scheduled to close,
but only one third of the credit proceeds were disbursed. It involved the addition of four
activities,6 the most significant being the purchase of hospital equipment, and the dropping of
the quality improvement grant facility. The second restructuring dropped software
procurement for the health insurance information system and support to the registration of
the population with the HII, and added the pilot testing of the country’s hospital
rationalization strategy.

2.12 The original closing date of September 30, 2010 was extended twice to June 30,
2012. The first extension of 18 months was granted under the first restructuring in order to
complete: (i) the procurement of medical equipment for the regional hospitals; and (ii) the
health insurance system, including health identification cards for children 0-16 years. The
second extension of three months was granted in February 2012 to allow completion of
procurement of two big packages of medical equipment.

2.13 Planned versus Actual Costs, Financing and Disbursements. The total project
cost was US$19 million equivalent, almost exactly the appraisal estimate. But the allocation
of expenditures across project components changed, as indicated in Table 2.1. The actual
cost of Component A was US$3 million less than planned, while the cost of Component B
was US$2.4 million more than planned and the cost of Component C increased by US$0.5
million. These changes were due to the additions and deletions of activities under the formal
restructurings co-signed by the Government of Albania and the World Bank.




6
 May 2010 Restructuring additions: new national communications strategy and campaign on PHC/quality
improvements; production of health identity cards for enrollment in primary care; purchase of hospital
equipment; and support for the contracting out of all non-medical activities in regional hospitals.
                                                               14




Table 2.1. Planned versus Actual Costs by Project Component (US$ million)
Component                                                                   Planned Actual
A. Strengthening Sector Stewardship, Financing and Purchasing                 7.7     4.7    61%
B. Improving Primary Health Care Service Delivery                            10.1    12.5    124%
C. Strengthening Hospital Governance and Management                           1.3     1.8    139%
Total Project Costs                                                          19.1    19.0    100%
Source: Implementation Completion Report and Project Implementation Unit.


2.14 These formal restructurings also involved the reallocation of the IDA credit across the
various disbursement categories. Annex F shows the original allocation of the credit
proceeds, the two reallocations agreed under the two restructuring exercises and the actual
use of the credit proceeds. An amount of SDR 9.41 million was actually disbursed, and SDR
1.29 million was cancelled, including an amount of SDR 0.7 million cancelled due to
misprocurement for a package of hospital equipment. This amounts to a disbursement rate of
88 percent of the original credit amount of SDR 10.7 million. The Japanese Trust Fund of
US$1.6 million was fully utilized and the Government of Albania financed a total of US$2.9
million, or 140 percent of its original commitment of US$2.1 million.

2.15 Factors Affecting Implementation. Factors, which affected implementation but
were outside of MoH’s control, were political in nature. The center-right Democratic party
won the 2009 elections by a narrow margin. The opposition Socialist Party carried out a
series of demonstrations alleging vote-rigging and led a campaign of civil disobedience until
a recount would be undertaken. Demonstrations flared up again in 2011 around allegations
of corruption and election rigging. In late 2013 the Socialist Party won the elections and a
new Government was established. These political events caused disruptions and delays in
implementation.

2.16 Staff turnover significantly undermined the pace of implementation. There was on
average one new Minister of Health appointed per year during the life of the project.
Turnover of high-level staff within the Ministry was pervasive, prompted mostly by political
factors, causing a loss of experience and institutional memory with new appointees not
always having the requisite capacity. Informants were consistent in mentioning this
phenomenon noting that it transcended central-level health institutions and pervaded at the
hospital and health facility level (especially hospital directors). Other factors, which slowed
implementation, included: the illness of the Deputy Minister responsible for project
oversight; tensions between MoH and HII, largely centered around a lack of clarity of roles,
responsibilities and accountabilities; long delays in the establishment and functioning of the
three technical working groups; delays in appointing counterparts for technical assistants
hired under the project; and failure of HII to make critical decisions on health information
system design to permit the procurement of software. The preparation and implementation of
the health component of the Social Sector Development Policy Loan (DPL) brought more
synergies to the work under the project to move forward with health financing reforms.
                                                        15


2.17 M&E Implementation. There was reporting on the revised indicators, but the
implementation of M&E fell far short of what was envisaged in the design. Because of the
lack of clarity in the definition and statement of many indicators, it is difficult to understand
exactly what the data means, what was being measured, what were the numerators and
denominators being used. The LSMS 2012 was to be an important source of data for
assessing efficacy, but the results of this survey were not available during IEG’s mission
(November 2013) or during the data analysis phase of this evaluation (January-April 2014).
LSMS 2012 data have since been made available for the World Bank’s recent Public Finance
Review (World Bank 2014). The Bank’s secondary analysis of these newly available data
corroborates the findings of this evaluation and is appropriately cited in this report. The
preparation of annual sector performance reports was required under the project’s financial
agreement, but only two were submitted (in 2011 and 2012). While these reports were
prepared on the basis of the sector M&E indicators developed and adopted under the project,
their quality and utility are reported to be weak. The development of productivity and
performance indicators under the HII bonus payment scheme was a step forward in tracking
performance at the PHC level. However, there appears to be very little compilation and
analysis of data and trends at the central level (HII and MoH included), and even less so at
the regional and district levels of HII and MoH.

2.18     Safeguards Compliance. No safeguards were triggered under this project.

2.19 Fiduciary Compliance. Financial management was carried out in accordance with
Bank requirements. Internal controls, staffing, reporting and auditing arrangements were all
sound; and the financial specialist responsible for the project possessed the requisite skills
and abilities. Audits were completed on time and none were qualified. The quarterly
financial reports were mostly submitted on time. Internal controls included regular
reconciliation of bank accounts, adequate segregation of duties and monthly reconciliation of
the Bank’s disbursement summaries with project accounting records.

2.20 Procurement under the project followed the Bank’s guidelines. Lack of capacity to
prepare technical specifications for medical equipment caused delays in the preparation of
bidding documents. The project suffered implementation delays due to complaints received
at various stages of the procurement process for medical equipment: bidding period,
evaluation and contract award. The Bank declared mis-procurement on one lot of medical
equipment worth US$1.1 million. The evaluation committee disqualified the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder, based on an evaluation criterion not specified in the bidding
documents, and recommended award to another bidder, in violation of the Bank’s guidelines.
With the exception of this incident of mis-procurement, there were no other major issues.
The selection of consultants for the large portfolio of technical assistance was well executed.

C. Achievement of Objectives7


7
  For the record, Annex E, Table E-2 presents original and revised project indicators, their baselines, targets and
(as available) their end-line data. IEG’s assessment of efficacy draws on this information, only to a limited
extent because (1) indicators did not fully capture progress against the objectives; and (2) many of these
indicators were not monitored, or they had end-line data that were unclear and/or unreliable.
                                               16


2.21 This section assesses the achievement of project objectives and links between the
project’s support and outcomes. However, it is important to note that the Bank was one
among several development partners working in support of similar objectives. USAID
supports primary health care services, quality assurance, health financing reform, hospital
management and health information systems. WHO provides advice and assistance on health
systems strengthening and performance management. The SDC supports primary health care
delivery and quality assurance. Thus, outcomes assessed in this section cannot be solely
attributed to the Bank’s support.

PDO #1: Improve the physical and financial access to, and use of, high quality primary
health care services, with an emphasis on those in poor and under-serviced areas, as
well as to diminish the unnecessary use of secondary and tertiary care facilities. –
Modestly Achieved

2.22 This section assesses the various sub-objectives embedded in this statement of
objectives: physical access, financial access, use, quality of primary health care services, with
equity, and reduced unnecessary use of hospital services, all with an emphasis on the poor
and vulnerable. With few exceptions, reliable data to track efficacy on these various fronts
are not available. As a consequence, this assessment of efficacy is based on evidence drawn
from IEG’s interviews with a wide range of stakeholders, its direct observations during field
visits, and various studies available on the PHC sector. One study in particular provided
invaluable insight on the population’s own assessment of the health care system. Undertaken
in 2013, USAID’s formative research on consumers’ perspectives is summarized in Box 2.2.,
with additional specific elements woven into the relevant analyses of the various sub-
objectives. In short, the findings of this study document significant shortcomings, from
consumers’ perspectives, in PHC, access, quality, equity and effective use of the referral
system. This corroborates findings derived from field visits, interviews and other studies,
including a recently completed World Bank public finance review (World Bank 2014). But
it is important to note that there was no baseline study, which makes it impossible to
document trends.

2.23 Physical Access. The project invested in three key inputs to improve the
population’s physical access to primary health care services. First, it provided basic
furniture to 2,200 facilities, including ambulancias (very basic health posts) and PHC
centers. Second, the project provided essential medical equipment to all PHC centers, as well
as basic medical supplies for delivering the PHC package, encompassing diagnostic and
treatment services for patients, with a particular focus on the management of chronic
diseases. Some ambulances were also provided. Third, while the project financed the
retraining of primary health physicians in evidence-based treatment of common conditions, it
did not add to the quantity of physicians providing primary health care in Albania, nor did it
support a more equitable distribution of physicians across and within regions.
                                                               17




Box 2.2. Consumers’ Assessment of the Health Care System in Albania
Health Insurance and the Referral System:
 Despite widespread knowledge of the insured on how to access and use the system, family physicians are
    often bypassed in favor of hospital care, due to the perception of poor quality of care at the primary level.
 Public healthcare costs seem to be prohibitive for those without health insurance, resulting in limited access
    to services for the poorest and most vulnerable. Instead they refrain from contacting public facilities
    altogether, access the system through emergency services, or seek pharmacists’ advice.
 Potential beneficiaries of health insurance coverage (those not formally employed) are not aware of their
    eligibility to access coverage. Formally employed citizens consider health insurance to be a “tax” because
    it does not guarantee protection from out of pocket payments.
Informal Payments:
 Informal payments are considered by many to be absolutely essential to gaining access to health services
    and to receiving good quality services.
 The act of providing a bribe to health providers is accompanied by a strong feeling of powerlessness
    towards health providers, motivated by the desire to feel less afraid of, and more confident in, the quality of
    services they will receive.
 With a few exceptions, the majority of respondents think that health providers are not sufficiently devoted
    to providing good quality of care, lack professionalism and display poor communication ethics in their
    interactions with patients. The lack of providers’ accountability to health consumers is the main reason for
    their poor performance.
Information on Health and Health Care:
 The majority of respondents affirmed that their communities are not sufficiently informed about health,
    preventive health care and health insurance. Priorities seem to be focused more on treatment than
    prevention, with many seeing a doctor very late in an illness, when options are few.
 Very limited health information received from physicians seems to be supplemented by pharmacists, who
    are trusted and influential. Other trusted sources include: family elders, relatives, friends, the media.
 Focus group discussions reveal very limited information on the Patients’ Rights Card.
Health System Accountability:
 Respondents feel powerless to react to injustice in the health center. Some expressed that they are
    discouraged from demanding equal and quality treatment because they believe that there is no true
    accountability to the client and fear even worse treatment if they speak up.
 They feel that an effective consumer feedback mechanism should be impartial, professional, independent
    from health providers and sufficiently powerful to have an impact. Also important is the need to tailor such
    a mechanism to accommodate diverse patient groups, especially rural/urban and age differentials.
Civic Engagement:
 Citizens feel detached from the needs of their communities and focus only on their personal interests.
 Respondents expressed skepticism on the role and impact of civil society, many lacking awareness and
    understanding of the role and presence of NGOs and expressing concern about the political motives and
    lack of transparency of NGOs.
   Nevertheless, some acknowledge the good work of some civil actors in Albania.
Source: “Health Care System in Albania, A Formative Research with Consumers to Increase Non-State Actors’ Engagement in Health
System Governance,” USAID, May 8, 2013.


2.24 These investments notwithstanding, IEG was unable to find evidence of
improvements to physical access.8 MoH does not have data on trends in physical access to



8
 For the purposes of this report, physical access is defined by the population’s reasonable proximity to a well-
equipped primary health care facility with adequate staffing and supplies, capable of delivering the full package
of preventive, promotional, treatment and curative services.
                                                        18


primary health care.9 It is plausible to assume that improvements to infrastructure and
additional equipment and supplies supported under the project have translated into some
improvements in physical access. Indeed, respondents have noted their appreciation of
equipment received through the project. But there are still major issues undermining
physical access. The above-cited USAID study reveals that poor physical infrastructure and
lack of equipment and supplies remain major impediments. This includes the physical
conditions of health facilities and their ineffective operation and maintenance and lack of
basic furniture (bed/bed linens, chairs and other basic furniture) in all three regions covered
in this study. IEG’s visit to Elbasan and exchanges with local level-level officials corroborate
these findings. Over and above the low doctor to patient ratios, especially in the rural areas,
interviews and USAID’s consumer survey document limited availability of physicians in
PHC centers. Some curtail their time in the public facilities to work (as well) in the more
financially rewarding private facilities; and some keep very short hours in rural facilities
because they continue to live in cities, with long commute times. All sources did reveal
improved access to services resulting from recent substantial improvements in main roads in
Albania. But these improvements were noted specifically to have brought improved access
to health facilities in Tirana, and not to PHC. Korca consumers raised issues of limited
access to ambulance services and (especially in urban Korca) ineffective ambulance services.
Finally, multiple sources were consistent in documenting very limited access to health
promotion and outreach services, which are a critical component of the PHC package.

2.25 Financial Access. Planned project support to improve financial access to services
included: financing of the administrative costs of registration with the HII of those eligible
for health insurance and of their enrolment with a primary care physician; the establishment
of an information system to support and track this registration/enrolment; public information
campaigns to explain insurance coverage and the proper use of the referral system, requiring
visits to the primary care physician and limiting hospital visits only to those referred by a
primary care physician; and technical assistance in the design of the new health financing
law.

2.26 In the end, the Government decided to cover its own expenses with regard to the
registration of the eligible population with HII and their enrolment with a primary care
physician. According to HII’s Annual Report 2012 (HII, 2013), an estimated 1.7 million
people, or 53 percent of the entire population, are covered by health insurance and enrolled
with a primary care physician, as indicated by the total number of health booklets in
circulation. This represents an increase of 146,000 (or 9 percent) over the previous year, but
it falls short of the project target of 70 percent.10 Only the hardware was purchased for the
HII information system, the software delayed beyond the project’s capacity to purchase it,

9
  Attempts to register population with the HII are indicative of financial access, not physical access (see
following section). And enrolment of the population with a primary care physician (see section on efficacy of
PDO# 2) is a mechanism for introducing/facilitating health financing based on capitation, and not an indicator
of physical access.
10
   While the project set this as a target linked to improved access, enrolment with a physician is not an indicator
of improved access, as those enrolled would have had access to their local primary care physician even without
being enrolled. It is, rather, a measure to underpin the new way of financing primary health care, based on
capitation. This is discussed further under PDO#2.
                                                       19


due to indecision by HII on the type of system needed. Public information campaigns were
carried out with project support. Passed in 2011 and effective in March 2013, the health
financing law clarified that health insurance is compulsory for all economically active
people11 and covers (under State financing) specific categories of economically non-active
people.12 This law, whose technical preparation was supported with project-financed
technical assistance, extended free coverage to all beneficiaries of the NE/social assistance
program.

2.27 There appears to be no substantial improvement to financial access. While the
health financing law (whose passage was supported under the Social Sector DPL; see
Chapter 3) extends coverage to NE program beneficiaries, Government has held off
implementing this reform because of fiscal constraints (paras. 3.40-3.41). Other potential
(non-economically active) beneficiaries, particularly the unemployed, appear to be unaware
of their eligibility and/or of procedures and documentation to secure coverage (USAID,
2013). Insurance coverage of the poorest quintile has increased between 2008 and 2012,
from 27 percent to 52 percent, at a faster rate than for the richest quintile (from 54 percent to
67 percent) (World Bank 2014). Still the share of households that are pushed into poverty by
health spending has increased between 2008 and 2012 (World Bank 2014; see also para.
3.42). Whether insured or uninsured, informal payments are raised by virtually all
informants and numerous studies as a significant impediment to access. Consumers declare
(USAID, 2013) that almost all public health employees (security staff, hygiene and cleaning
staff, nurses, physicians, among others) require to be paid informally, independent of
patients’ health insurance status. Reasons consumers feel compelled to pay bribes include:
gaining access to health services; receiving better quality care; receiving sufficient
information/an accurate diagnosis; and curtailing excessive bureaucracy of the referral
system. A recent survey corroborates this phenomenon, with 39 percent of respondents
reporting that informal payments are usually needed to obtain health services.13 While these
sources indicate that informal payments are pervasive, the World Bank, based on LSMS data,
estimates that informal payments may represent only 5 percent of OOP spending. On the
other hand, an estimated 50 percent of OOP at PHC facilities is for prescription drugs, an
indication of ineffective coverage of health insurance for this expenditure. Almost 90
percent of OOP occurs at public facilities.

2.28 The uninsured (mostly poor populations) do not have full access. The Roma are not
aware of free access accorded to pregnant women, children, retired, invalids. And sometimes
they are required to pay for services that should be free. The Public Health Directorate is
currently reaching out to Roma people to inform them of their rights and to convey to them
the benefits of preventive and early visits. USAID’s study reveals that those lacking health
insurance refrain from contacting public health facilities because of the high (formal and


11
     The employed, self-employed, unpaid family workers, and other economically active people.
12
  Beneficiaries of the Social Insurance Institute, social assistance (NE Program) or disability payments, people
registered as unemployed jobseekers with the National Employment Service, foreign asylum seekers in the
country, children under 18, students under 25 with no incomes from business activities, among others.
13
     World Bank-EBRD Life in Transition Survey, cited in World Bank 2014.
                                                         20


informal) costs,14 while others access care through emergency rooms or pharmacists. The
study also revealed incidences of the poor borrowing money to cover their health care needs.

2.29 Even for the insured there are barriers. Some with insurance, who cannot afford
extra payments, indicate that they are subjected to unequal treatment, must wait in line for
hours (especially at hospitals) and settle for lower quality service. Corroborated by
interviews and field visits, the USAID study also reveals limited access to drugs for the
insured, as HII puts caps on drug expenditures, which (according to interviews) constrain
access to full treatment for more expensive protocols (e.g., cancer treatment). While
laboratory services are available through insurance in urban centers, patients of rural centers
with no such services who are referred to urban centers do not receive coverage. Overall,
State spending on health is estimated at about $360 million annually and OOP spending is
estimated at an additional $360 million.15

2.30 Use of Services. World Bank secondary analysis of LSMS data reveals that
between 2008 and 2012: (a) use of outpatient care was lower among the poor; (b) it has
decreased for all five quintiles of per capita consumption; and (c) gaps between the rich
and the poor’s use of outpatient care have increased (World Bank 2014). HII pays a 10
percent bonus to primary health facilities for achieving a certain threshold of primary health
care visits. Providers, HII officials and MoH officials, both central and regional level, have
noted their sense that the number of visits have increased. But IEG was unsuccessful in
accessing statistics and trends from HII, MoH/PHC Directorate or providers. The ICR
provides trends in the number of visits to PHC doctors between 2008 and 2011, showing
improvements both in first-time patient visits (from 696,147 to 1,077,681) and in total
number of visits (from 4,149,351 to 5,754,452). Using the WDI estimate for the 2011
population (3.15 million), this would translate into about 1.8 visits per capita in 2011, slightly
lower than the target of 2.0 (and the estimate of 2.04 provided in the ICR).16 Interviews
corroborated by USAID’s consumer study indicate that a number of visits do not involve an
examination by the PHC physician. Rather, they are just to seek the paperwork permitting
the insured to purchase drugs or see a specialist. A PHC center in Durres reported more first-
time visits from chronic patients and from women over 35 for breast cancer screening,
incited by HII bonuses for these visits. Several PHC centers noted difficulties in getting
pregnant women to visit centers, as some are not aware that these services are free and others
(who can afford it) prefer to visit private or referral services, equipped with a sonogram. The
ICR reports that immunization of children remained consistently high (94 percent in 2010, 95
percent in 2012).



14
  This phenomenon is corroborated by World Bank secondary analysis of LSMS data showing increasing OOP
for higher expenditure quintiles and decreasing OOP for lower quintiles and attributing this to self-rationing by
the poor.
15
  These estimates were provided by the Project Director and corroborated by the World Bank, which (a) reports
Government health spending of $332 million for 2012, $335 million for 2013 (plan) and $340 million for 2014
(draft); and (b) notes that about half of total health private and public spending is made up of out-of-pocket
expenditures (World Bank 2014).
16
     The ICR does not cite the source of the data presented.
                                                    21


2.31 Quality of Primary Health Care Services. The project’s support to quality
improvements included the training of 631 primary health physicians from three regions
(Tirana, Elbasan, Durres) versus the six region originally planned, scaling up the family
medicine training initiated by USAID in six regions and complemented with a quality
improvement training component. The project also financed the preparation of five new
evidence-based clinical practice guidelines (CPGs)17 against a target of six. Conflicting
information from key informants make it difficult to confirm whether or not these protocols
were ever distributed in hard copy to all PHC facilities/physicians, as planned, or whether
they were only disseminated electronically. Training provided under the project included
coverage of CPG implementation.


2.32 The bonus payment system developed in support of PDO#2 (see para. 2.39) is likely
to have incited providers to improve services linked to key performance indicators,
including: monitoring and ensuring a healthy range of blood pressure and glucose levels of,
respectively, hypertensive and diabetic patients. The project supported the establishment of a
licensing and accreditation function within the NCQSA, but only one PHC center (urban
Tirana) has been accredited to date, and this was on a pilot basis. The accreditation process
took four years (including a self-evaluation and an independent evaluation). The project’s
quality grant, designed to finance proposals from PHC providers to improve quality, was
dropped, because of Government’s lack of interest. The project’s support to a Continuing
Medical Education (CME) center was dropped as the Swiss provided the bulk of needed
support.

2.33 Improvements to PHC service quality were not systematically tracked, but appear to
be modest. IEG field visits found mixed evidence of the availability and use of CPGs in
PHC facilities. There is no information on who attended training, what was learned, no proof
of increased knowledge and capacity as a result of training, and no follow-up pedagogical
support or accountabilities linked to CPG use. Deficiencies in infrastructure, equipment,
furniture, drugs and other consumables, noted to have undermined physical access, also
depress service quality. While only one of the 421 PHC centers has been accredited to date,
the accreditation process for PHC Center #4 was instrumental in improving attention to
service quality. Other centers visited expressed their intention to seek accreditation.
Interviews with a range of MoH and HII officials and service providers were almost
unanimous in noting that poor quality remains a critical issue, as indicated by: inadequate
physician time with patients (due to excessive and duplicative reporting requirements, and
their involvement in the private sector), inadequate financing of essentials, especially drugs.
Consumers were also vocal in expressing their concerns about quality, highlighting:
corruption, poor service, lack of hygiene, lack of medicine and incompetence of some
providers, and even worse service in the absence of informal payments. A World Bank-

17
   National Clinical Best Practice Guidelines were produced for: (1) General Patient Management within PHC
(including adult asthma, upper respiratory infections, urticarial and angioedema, acute diarrhea, anemia,
sexually transmitted infections and adult pneumonia); (2) Anemia Management in Patients with Chronic Renal
Insufficiency; (3) Treatment of Persons with Type 2 Diabetes; (4) Management of Arterial Hypertension in
PHC; (5) Cerebral Vascular Accidents. Priority areas of child health and antenatal care, identified at the
project’s outset, were not covered by these five CPGs.
                                                      22


EBRD Life in Transition Survey II reveals that more than half (55 percent) of Albanians are
dissatisfied with the quality and efficiency of public health services.18

2.34 Unnecessary use of Secondary and Tertiary Care. HII’s policy of reimbursing the
costs of hospital services only if the insured patient has first been seen, and referred by, the
PHC physician was designed expressly to discourage the inefficient, unnecessary use of these
services. The project supported the design and implementation of this policy (under PDO 2)
and its dissemination to the public.

2.35 Available evidence indicates continued unnecessary use of hospitals. While MoH
and HII have not systematically tracked trends on this front, qualitative evidence is consistent
and compelling. Despite the population’s general knowledge of HII’s policy and procedures
to access services through the referral system (USAID, 2013), virtually all respondents and
IEG’s own observations indicate persistently inefficient use of hospitals and specialists.
Tirana University Hospital and Durres Regional Hospital are filled with patients who bypass
primary care providers, including: (a) the uninsured, who frequent emergency rooms;19 and
(b) the insured, who can afford to pay for these services, themselves, and choose to avoid the
excessive bureaucracy and waiting time involved in getting a referral, which would allow
them reimbursement of hospital fees. Both the USAID consumer study and direct
observations and exchanges with hospital officials in Tirana and Durres reveal that a third
group – those who are insured and follow the proper channels for referral services – are
largely those who cannot afford to pay for hospital services themselves. They face longer
lines, generally more difficult access and (in their perception) lower quality services than
those who bypass the referral system and pay for hospital care directly. The unnecessary use
of hospital facilities, also documented in World Bank 2014, is prompted largely by a lack of
confidence in the quality of care at the primary level, as well as improvements in roads,
which make more sophisticated care (in hospitals and private sector) increasingly accessible.
Consumers report that PHC facilities are frequently perceived and used as offices that
provide signatures for referrals, with some family doctors only contacted after a specialist
visit to fill in forms. OOP expenditures for outpatient services provided at hospitals amount
to around 28 percent of total OOP spending, suggesting that a considerable proportion of
outpatient care is being sought at the hospital level, instead of at PHC facilities (World Bank
2014).

2.36 Secondary and Tertiary-Level Hospital Equipment. The project, as restructured in
April 2010, procured equipment for regional hospitals providing secondary referral services,
as well as for tertiary-level Tirana University Hospital. The rationale for this additional
equipment was to strengthen the primary-secondary care interface. Mammography
equipment was purchased to support breast cancer diagnosis in four main hospitals (two
urban, two in the mountains) and autoclaves were purchased for seven main hospitals to
improve treatment of hospital waste, heretofore incinerated. Specialized equipment was also
provided to Tirana University Hospital’s pediatric surgery department and to its cardiology

18
     Cited in World Bank 2014.
19
   Some 70-80 percent of all emergency room visits to the Durres Regional Hospital are estimated to be for
primary care. (Interview with Director of Durres Hospital)
                                              23


department, bringing (according to some informants) this department to European standards.
Medical equipment provided to the 12 regional hospitals was intended to support
implementation of the hospital rationalization plan (paras. 2.53-2.54).

2.37 Even though the rationale for the purchase of this equipment was to improve the
link between primary and hospital level referral services, this equipment’s contribution to
the general objective of improving PHC access, quality and utilization is estimated to be
marginal. This equipment was installed and reported to be functional by the end of the
project. But there was no tracking to assess improvements to hospital capacity, linked to
these specific investments. Many informants expressed appreciation for this equipment,
while others expressed their misgivings. Even if mammography equipment is used at full
capacity, some have noted that the lack of a holistic approach to cancer control and treatment
raises the risk of inadequate treatment capacity for the expected increase in new cases. Yet
others note that improved diagnostic capacity is an important first step. Some training was
included in the procurement package, but there is concern about, and little tracking of, the
proper use of equipment. And maintenance systems for hospital equipment are severely
lacking. IEG’s visit to Tirana University Hospital revealed that, while warranties had not yet
run out and maintenance contracts beyond the warranty periods had been purchased, general
maintenance systems and practices at the Hospital give cause for concern. Contract awards
for equipment maintenance are neither fully transparent nor given to the most qualified
contractor (e.g., an information technology expert versus a mechanical engineer). Lack of
spare parts, budget and skills for maintenance of sophisticated equipment has caused some
equipment to be no longer in use. The mammograph and angiograph equipment purchased
by the project for Tirana University Hospital were reported to be the only ones in the entire
hospital that were said to be functioning, indicative of maintenance deficiencies. The new
Minister of Health impressed upon IEG the need to track the proper use and maintenance of
hospital equipment.

PDO #2: Improve the Recipient’s capacity to formulate and implement health policies
and reforms in the health sector. – Substantially Achieved

2.38 A package of World Bank support, composed of analytic work, development policy
lending and implementation support under this project, has contributed to strengthening
of MoH and HII capacity in the formulation of well-conceived health financing policy. In
keeping with the recommendations of the Bank’s 2006 Health Policy Note, a number of
policy decisions were made in the early years of the project: (1) in 2006 HII assumed
responsibility for financing all PHC offered through public facilities (but this financing was
limited to physicians’ salaries and reimbursement of pharmacists with HII contracts); (2) in
2007 the HII financed all costs of primary health care provided to those covered by insurance
through new performance contracts, calculated on a capitation basis and including
performance bonuses; and (3) in 2009 Government made the decision to unify resources for
health under one single purchasing agency, HII, which meant that HII would also be
responsible for purchasing hospital services through performance contracts. Another major
reform introduced during the life of the project was the new “Law on Compulsory Health
                                                    24


Care Insurance,” approved by Parliament in February 2011.20 The project supported this
effort by financing technical assistance to MoH and HII in the drafting, review and revision
of this law. This assistance helped strengthen the capacity of MoH and HII in the
formulation of health insurance policy and provided expert quality assurance and oversight to
ensure its internal coherence and coherence with other reforms. Nevertheless, it is difficult to
assess whether these policy decisions would have been made, or at least delayed, in the
absence of Bank support. Interviews indicate the value added of the Bank’s technical input
to these decisions. But Government’s internal policy-making process and other technical
support are also likely factors.

2.39     Overall, implementation of health financing reform at the primary care level was
successful. The project provided substantial technical assistance and support to HII and
MoH in the design and implementation of performance contracts for primary health care.
Technical assistance was provided under the PHRD grant (US$400,000) to help HII develop
appropriate payment and contracting methods and to build the capacity of HII (central,
regional and district levels) and PHC providers/facilities to implement this reform. 2014
marks the seventh year that performance-based contracting is being implemented in Albania
in all 421 public PHC facilities and in pharmacies serving PHC patients. The PHC provider
payment mechanism is characterized as a hybrid model (World Bank 2014). Eighty percent
of PHC facilities funding is based on the historical budget. Funding also includes a 10
percent bonus for level of activity (reaching a threshold of number of visits) and a 10 percent
bonus for focusing on critical services, among which are proper monitoring and management
of hypertensive and diabetic patients. Doctors’ salaries are based on capitation, skills,
experience, seniority of physicians and geographic posting. The productivity bonus is
awarded on a monthly basis, while the quality bonus is awarded on a quarterly basis. The
PHC physician decides on their distribution and use, which can be passed on to other staff
and/or used for supplementing the budget for drugs, consumables and other recurrent
expenditures. Limited autonomy of the PHC does not allow use of the recurrent expenditure
budget for other needs (e.g. minor repairs of infrastructure). PHC centers are allowed to
retain fees collected from the uninsured to invest in furniture, equipment and other needs.
But recent changes in policy now require approval by the Regional Director for Public
Health, responsible for infrastructure and investments, before such purchases can be made.
There are also issues with affordability of PHC services, with caps placed on the purchase of
medicines, which can exceed available financing for more complicated diseases, such as
cancer. The project also supported the establishment of systems and controls underpinning
contracts and HII oversight, which appear to be working well.

2.40 Implementation of health financing reform at the hospital level has fallen short of
expectations. With the 2009 decision to make HII sole purchaser, HII central and regional
offices created departments for hospital performance contracting. The project financed
technical assistance in 2009 to advise HII on the definitions and principles of performance
analysis and on specific actions it could take to develop hospital performance analysis
capacity to manage its health care purchasing. The work plan proposed through this

20
   Approval of this Law by Parliament was among the Government Prior Actions that were conditions for the
release of funds under the one-tranche Social Sector Development Policy Loan, which became effective on
August 25, 2011.
                                                       25


technical assistance was not pursued. The project financed additional technical assistance in
early 2012, which laid out recommendations and strategies for incremental reform of hospital
payment in Albania. Recommendations center around: hospital governance and
management; quality assurance (especially accreditation of hospitals); information
management (covering performance and cost data); and changes to the funding model.21
With USAID support, this same consultant prepared (with the HII/MoH Technical
Commission) another building block for the costing and financing of hospital care.
Published in September 2013 (9 months after HSMP closed), this work, building on the
hospital rationalization study (PDO# 3), defined the package of hospital services (tertiary,
secondary and small municipal/district hospitals) and provided cost data.

2.41 All of this support notwithstanding, to date full implementation of hospital financing
through performance contracts has been limited to the Durres Hospital (supported by USAID
and others), because of its pilot status. While HII does have the responsibility for financing
all hospitals and performance contracts have been signed as of 2011 (a prior action under the
Social Sector DPL, para. 3.35), in actual fact, the budgets of all hospitals except for Durres
are established by MoH and approved by the Council of Ministers based on historical
budgets. Because these hospitals do not have a Bank account, their budget funds are held by
Treasury and released to hospitals based on receipts for expenditures, not on performance. In
contrast with the PHC performance contracting system, HII has very few funds – and
leverage – to oversee and enforce performance contracting at the hospital level. The above-
listed recommendations for implementing hospital financing reform constitute a critical path
for moving forward.

2.42 The development of information systems for HII for prescription drug processing,
patient registration/enrolment and service monitoring was only partially achieved. In
short, only the hardware was ultimately purchased and put into place. Acquisition of the
software was delayed due to HII failure to take decisions affecting the design of the whole
health insurance information system. This is despite the fact that the project did finance
technical assistance to assess needs and propose the design of the system. Delays in
decision-making caused the project to drop the software procurement in its 2011
restructuring. The Austrian Government had initially agreed to support the acquisition of
this software, but then later withdrew. This is now programmed under a follow-on World
Bank project slated for late 2014 approval. The project purchased and distributed computers
and printers to 419 primary health centers and servers for regional health directorates to
consolidate information from primary health centers. HII central and regional levels and
providers report the use of these computers for registering people with the HII and enrolling
them with a primary physician. Interviews and direct observation indicate that there is still
work to do to fully consolidate information (ensure quality of information, remove
duplications, etc.) on patient registration and enrollment. The incentive is high to enroll
patients, given that this data provides the basis for physicians’ salaries (a function of
capitation). The Government had decided to allocate space on a national identity card for
health insurance registration, enrollment and key related numbers and patient data. But this

21
  This technical assistance and a hospital rationalization study and master plan (paras. 2.53 and 2.54) will be
key inputs to the development and implementation of a new World Bank-financed health project, currently
under preparation.
                                                      26


has not yet been implemented. Some informants questioned the wisdom of: procuring
hardware before the design and acquisition of software; the allocation of a computer to
almost every physician, especially in areas with no internet and no maintenance capacity; and
the use of an electronic card for health/health insurance, given lack of reliable electricity
supply in some centers.

2.43 The creation of a functional public health data warehouse in the Institute of Public
Health (IPH) was not achieved. In this case, too, the project financed only hardware, along
with servers and licenses. The software necessary to get the system running has yet to be
developed and remains a priority for the IPH.

2.44 The project’s investments in strengthening MoH capacity for strategic sector
management provided some important building blocks, but fell short of expectations,
largely due to staff turnover and slow uptake of technical assistance.

2.45 At the request of the MoH, the project financed a WHO-recruited expert to update its
health sector strategy. The work was undertaken through working groups for an inclusive,
consultative process and culminated in the production of “Health System Strategy 2007-
2013.” Informants provided conflicting information about whether or not this strategy was
ever approved by Government. By all accounts, and in IEG’s own assessment, the technical
assistance financed under the project to develop a viable M&E system was of high quality.
Undertaken jointly with the M&E Core Working Group and approved by the M&E
Reference Group,22 the document produced through this process: outlines the framework for
M&E, based on the above-cited health system strategy; lays out the organizational structure,
processes and outputs of the system; proposes a streamlined set of annual health system
performance indicators (both outcome and impact) for measuring health system performance;
outlines how these indicators should be used to underpin annual health sector reviews in
order to inform strategic planning and evidence-based policy; and summarizes the transition
plan, training needs and resource requirements to implement the M&E system. MoH
adopted the recommendation to establish a Monitoring and Evaluation Sector within its
structure, reporting to the Director of Policy and Planning. But staff turnover has
undermined its functioning.


2.46 Annual performance reviews were envisaged under the project, as specified in the
Financing Agreement, the first one expected to be undertaken by end-October 2006. In
actual fact, the first annual performance report was issued and discussed only in 2011,
followed by the second one in 2012. These reports included information on some of the
milestones and performance indicators (60 of some 140) proposed in the above-cited M&E
framework. But the quality of the reporting (data and analysis) is noted by a number of
informants to be lacking. USAID is supporting continued assistance to M&E capacity
building under its ongoing project, including the financing of the consultant who initiated this
work under HSMP. IEG’s attempt to exploit these reports for the purposes of this evaluation

22
   Both Groups were established to develop the M&E Reference Document and were intended to serve as the
institutional structure for maintaining the M&E process and a platform for coordinating the activities of the
international partners.
                                                     27


was unsuccessful. A quick look revealed that trends/data were not available to report on
project-specific indicators or other relevant ones to measure progress against HSMP
objectives. Moreover, the M&E Head had just vacated that post with the changes in
Government and could not be contacted for a meeting. No source of information
(documents, interviews, field visits) provided indication of the tracking of M&E indicators or
of the analysis and use of local-level data for performance assessment and decision-making.

2.47 The project supported a National Health Accounts exercise compiling accounts for
three consecutive years: 2007-09. This involved training, data analysis attempts to develop
and institutionalize NHA and support to the Department of Financial Planning. The work
was supervised by a Steering Committee lead by MoH and including representatives from
Ministry of Finance, HII and the Institute of National Statistics. The exercise applied a new
methodology, which collected comprehensive information and linked different components
of this information together for enhanced analysis. The exercise culminated in: a database as
a platform for discussion and analysis; a functional classification of health expenditures
adding new information for health policy and budget planning; regional health expenditure
estimates informing planning and making possible regional comparisons of productivity; and
updated information of the mix of public and private expenditures.23 While this proved to be
a useful and informative product, the support did not succeed in institutionalizing the NHA
function within MoH. Additional technical assistance is needed to improve capacity in order
for MoH to carry out this exercise on its own in the future.

2.48 Important progress was made in strengthening the capacity of the National Center
for Quality, Safety and Accreditation of Health Care Institutions (NCQSA) to strengthen
its quality assurance and oversight functions. But there is a large unfinished agenda for
quality assurance and oversight. The project provided technical assistance and support to
the fulfillment of each of three functions of the NCQSA. First, it supported the process of
developing clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) and related training. When NCQSA was first
established, one year before the project start, there were no CPGs, only a few papers from
pharmaceutical companies and projects, and no structure within MoH responsible for
developing them. With MoH approval and in collaboration with an inter-institutional team
(MoH, HII, NCQSA, and other relevant health professionals), the project supported
NCQSA’s new model for developing CPGs: involving HII and patients, as well as health
providers in the design; following an evidence-based approach; abandoning links to
pharmaceutical companies’ protocols to avoid conflict of interest; and limiting guidelines to
what is feasible to implement within the Albanian health system. This process was used for
developing the five CPGs supported under this project, as well as for numerous other
guidelines also developed by NCQSA. Adherence to these guidelines is reported to be weak
to date and with no follow-up oversight or accountabilities.

2.49 Second, the project supported the licensing and accreditation function. NCQSA
developed standards for accreditation of five categories of health services: hospitals, primary


23
  The Albanian share of GDP devoted to public health care expenditures is the lowest share in Europe, together
with Cypress. The public private mix of total expenditures is 50%/47%, with the remaining 3 percent financed
by foreign programs.
                                                       28


health care, dentistry, pharmacies and laboratories.24 This was done through working groups
including representatives from MoH, HII and patients organizations. Standards needed to be
measurable and achievable. The accreditation process involved instruments and processes
for self-evaluation and, subsequently, external evaluation. Project support also included
training of 160 people25 in 6 regions in quality indicators and accreditation processes.
Trainees became part of a network of quality coordinators. Under a pilot phase three
facilities have been accredited: Durres Regional Hospital, PHC Center #4 in Tirana, one
laboratory, one dental practice and one pharmacy. Both Durres Hospital and PHC Center #4
managers spontaneously mentioned to IEG the accreditation process and its positive effect on
quality awareness and quality improvements. Under the health care law accreditation of
health facilities will move from a voluntary to a mandatory process.

2.50 Third, the project financed technical assistance for health technology assessment.
Undertaken over the period 2009-2011, this work involved: (1) an evaluation of the current
situation of health technologies in Albania and proposals for enhancing health technology
and its proper use and maintenance; (2) an assessment of current capacity for health
technology assessment and proposals for its further development; (3) the development of a
strategy for the institutionalization of health technology assessment and evidence-based
medicine; and (4) training in evidence-based medicine. While a knowledge center was
established, as recommended, it is not clear what other recommendations have been
implemented and what permanent capacities and functions have been established.

2.51 While NCQSA is currently charged with these three functions, the appropriation and
institutionalization of a quality culture needs to happen throughout the health system,
including: MoH, HII, service providers, and the population. One mission of NCQSA not
supported under the project is the “democratization of the health sector,” meaning the
establishment of partnerships with civil society and consumers for managing their own
health, for collaborating with the health system in monitoring quality and performance and
for keeping the health system accountable to the people. This was included among the
priorities listed in the 2006 Health Policy Note (para 1.13).

PDO #3: Improve hospital governance and management. – Modestly Achieved

2.52 Project support appears to have had little impact on hospital management and
financial management. The project supported the training of 180 hospital managers and
financial staff (9 groups of 20 trainees each), exceeding the target of 150. Delivered by 12
Albanian trainers, this training aimed to improve management skills and awareness of
modern management concepts. The project did not develop and introduce accounting and
internal control structures for hospital care providers, as planned. Considerable turnover of
staff trained was one important factor in failure to substantially improve management. The
appointment of unqualified hospital directors for political reasons was another.

24
  According to the head of NCQSA, Albania is the first in Europe to have done this for all five categories of
services.
25
  Participants included: facility directors, economists, clinical nursing and quality managers from hospitals and
PHC centers and GPs and staff from regional public health institutes.
                                              29


2.53 The project financed technical assistance to support the development of a model
and regulatory framework, including by-laws and regulations, to support the move of MoH
hospitals to the status of autonomous public entities. The bylaws for hospital autonomy
were discussed within MoH. The project also financed evaluations of the Durres Hospital
and the TRHA pilots. A hospital rationalization study was also supported, which: assessed
some efficiency aspects of all hospitals in Albania individually and collectively (low bed
occupancy, services, costs); explored several options for rationalizing the hospital sector;
recommended the best option based on quality and cost-effectiveness criteria (strengthening
of 12 regional hospitals and reconfiguration of some 30 district hospitals); and proposed a
master plan for implementation and arrangements for its monitoring and evaluation. The
implementation plan included: building regional referral networks; defining in partnership
with HII the package of services to be delivered by each level of hospital care, based on
Albanian standards; reshaping the role of several district hospitals as ambulatory care
centers; and informing the public of these changes.

2.54 The hospital rationalization study was issued in final in 2008, but little action was
taken in favor of its implementation. Pilots in two regions to reconfigure existing facilities
(one regional hospital and two district/municipal hospitals transformed into ambulatory
centers) under one administrative structure were envisaged. Four years later, in June 2012,
the project financed another technical assistance by a different consulting firm, which
proposed a design, tools and action plan for implementing the hospital rationalization plan. It
identified two pilot hospitals: Lushnja District Hospital and Vlora Regional Hospital. There
is no evidence that any further action to implement the plan, including the pilots, has been
taken. With USAID technical assistance, in collaboration with a Technical Commission
assigned to establish a Package of Inpatient Services for Hospitals, a package of services has
been defined for district, regional and tertiary hospitals and is proposed for adoption
(USAID, September 26, 2013). Added during the 2010 project restructuring, the project
provided technical assistance to MoH on the privatization of all non-medical activities in
regional hospitals. The existing outsourced non-medical services were analyzed at Tirana U
Hospital and a framework for outsourcing services was developed based on these findings
which can be applied to support MoH in the tendering process. Outsourcing has been done
in 3-4 hospitals, using guidelines generated by this assistance.

2.55 The project envisaged foreign and local technical assistance to test the model
developed for hospital autonomy in selected hospitals. This was not implemented under
the project. Nevertheless, USAID is currently supporting the piloting of autonomous
hospital management, as laid out in the project-financed technical assistance, in three
hospitals: Mother Geraldine Obstetric/Gynecological Hospital in Tirana; Korca Regional
Hospital; and Leisha Regional Hospital. A key strategy articulated through the technical
assistance and carried through to USAID’s pilots is not to grant autonomy to all hospitals
regardless of their management capacity, but rather to grant autonomy incrementally to
hospitals with solid management capacity. WHO chairs a working group on hospital
management performance contracts (Leisha, Korca, Tirana) with eventual plans for
nationwide expansion.

2.56 A wide range of informants were consistent in noting persistent, important
deficiencies in the management and financial management of hospitals. A recent USAID
                                               30


study’s list of preliminary requirements for moving ahead with global budgeting for hospitals
is illustrative of persistent issues of weak hospital management, most notably: weak
governance of hospitals; lack of skilled hospital management; lack of continuity of hospital
management; and weak performance measures, accountability and transparency, which
undermines control of corruption.

D. Efficiency -- Modest

2.57 Initial and end-of-project cost-benefit analyses were undertaken, but their
assessment of benefits cannot be verified because of a lack of viable data. The likelihood
of even the lowest case scenario benefits stream being achieved is uncertain, in light of the
partial evidence and analysis of efficacy in Section C. of this Chapter. Due to difficulties in
assessing Components 1 and 3, both the design stage and end-of-project analyses focused on
Component 2 Improving Primary Health Care Delivery, covering about 50 percent of total
estimated project costs and 60 percent of actual costs. Improved PHC services were
expected to culminate in two direct benefits (reduction in unnecessary hospital admissions
and reduction in unnecessary referrals to specialist care) and in additional indirect benefits
(reduction in OOP travel costs to hospitals and specialist clinics, averted productivity losses,
and reduced mortality). The initial cost-benefit analysis was estimated on the basis of total
project costs, assuming benefits due to reduced mortality, reduced hospital bed-days, lower
travel costs, and savings in foregone earnings to the society. The scenario deemed at the
design stage most likely to materialize assumed that benefits would start materializing in
Year 4 and yielded a net present value of $973,013 and a 9 percent economic rate of return
over 20 years, using a 10 percent discount rate.

2.58 Using only the cost of Component B and exploring the same expected benefits, the
end-of-project cost-benefit analysis base case scenario yielded a net present value of US$6.2
million, a benefit/cost ratio of 1.45 and an 18 percent economic rate of return, using an 8
percent discount rate. Sensitivity analysis under alternative scenarios (at 8 percent discount
rate) showing lesser impacts of the intervention yielded economic rates of return ranging
from 7 percent to 14 percent, and benefit/cost ratios ranging from 0.96 to 1.25. However,
even the most modest end-of-project scenario (3 percent per annum decrease in hospital
admissions and in specialist referrals; and 2 percent per annum decrease in mortality) cannot
be verified for lack of data. Available evidence presented in the efficacy section reveals
continued unnecessary use of hospitals and specialist services; and the ICR corroborates
IEG’s findings that there is no strong evidence to suggest improved health outcomes for
defined health conditions (Annex E, Table E-2).

2.59 The project was not implemented efficiently. At US$19.0 million, the final project
cost was almost exactly what was estimated at appraisal, but the implementation period was
almost six years versus the four years originally anticipated, and the objectives were not fully
achieved. Furthermore, project restructuring caused the project resources to be used less
optimally. Turmoil around the political elections, especially in 2009, and substantial
turnover of Ministers, high-level officials and experienced staff in health institutions, and
hospital managers all caused important delays. Failure to establish thematic technical
working groups also delayed implementation. Technical assistance was not fully exploited
because counterparts were not appointed – in time or at all. The investment in the health
                                                        31


information system was inefficient, reduced only to hardware investments and neglecting
software because of failure on the part of HII to make critical decisions affecting system
design. The lack of clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities of health institutions – at
central, regional and district levels – also contributed to inefficiencies in implementation.

E. Other Ratings

2.60 The project’s Outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.26 The project’s
objectives are highly relevant to current country conditions, national strategy and priorities
for the sector and the Bank’s current CPS, as well as the Bank’s Health, Nutrition and
Population Strategy. The design relevance is modest, overall. The results chain in the
original design was largely supportive of the achievement of project objectives. However,
some critical activities were excluded (addressing informal payments, clarification of roles,
responsibilities, accountabilities of key health institutions and their inter-relations, among
others). The two project restructurings further weakened the project results chain, adding a
number of investments not directly supporting the project objectives (hospital equipment)
and deleting others that were critical to these objectives (quality grant facility, HIS software,
among others – para 2.7). The objective to improve access, quality and use of PHC services
and to decrease unnecessary use of hospitals was modestly achieved. The project was
successful overall in achieving the objective to improve capacity to formulate and implement
health policies and reforms, especially with regard to new provider payment methods for
PHC, based on capitation and bonuses. The objective of improving hospital governance and
management was modestly achieved. Project efficiency is modest because implementation
was inefficient, and not all objectives were achieved, even though the costs estimated at
appraisal were fully incurred.

2.61     Risk to Development Outcome is Rated Significant.

2.62 Political risk is moderate. The new Government has expressed that health is a
priority. Indeed, its election platform rested upon a strong commitment to universal health
coverage financed by the State. This vision for health is underpinned by the policies and
reforms supported under the health project, including: HII as the sole purchaser of services;
financing based, in part, on capitation and performance contracts; enhanced sector
stewardship; and hospital autonomy.

2.63 However, financial risk is significant. The health sector is severely underfinanced.
Government health spending has been quite stable over the past several years (2005-2011) at


26
   There is a marked difference between this PPAR’s rating of the project’s outcome and IEG’s satisfactory
rating of the project’s outcome based on its 2013 desk review of the Region’s Implementation Completion and
Results Report. This PPAR downgraded IEG’s initial ratings of: (i) design from substantial to modest based on
weaknesses detected in the results chain, which became more evident in this in-depth analysis; (ii) efficacy of
the first objective from substantial to modest based on the paucity and unreliability of relevant data and trends,
and on the availability of new evidence since the ICR was produced; and (iii) efficiency from substantial to
modest because the pre- and post-project economic analyses was based largely on expected benefits, whose
achievements could not be verified.
                                                         32


just below 3 percent of GDP, lower than any other Eastern European country;27 and OOP
expenditures remain high, relative to other countries in the sub-region, at slightly over 3
percent of GDP during this same period (World Bank 2013a). While the Prime Minister has
committed to raise the share to more than 3 percent over the next few years, this is still much
lower than other countries in the region, and expanded public allocations and spending may
not materialize in the absence of improvements in the country’s tight fiscal situation. Adding
to the financial risk is the substantial debt incurred by the health sector, estimated at $50-$60
million, of which 70 percent for hospitals (mostly Tirana University Hospital, and mostly for
debts owed to drug companies). This debt seriously undermines prospects for maintaining
and enhancing achievements.

2.64 Institutional risk is significant. The new Government has appointed health sector
leaders (Minister of Health, two Deputy Ministers of Health, and the head of the HII) who
are well qualified for the jobs and poised to make important contributions to continued
progress in health sector reforms and outcomes supported under the project. But there are
institutional risks. Excessive turnover of experienced staff and appointment of unqualified
staff has been the norm throughout the life of the project. The abandonment of this practice
and the appointment and retention of well-qualified staff will be critical. Institutional risk
will also remain high unless and until there is a clarification of roles, responsibilities and
accountabilities of all key health institutions, most especially, MoH, HII, NQAA,28 IPH, at
central, regional and district levels.

2.65 Technical risk is moderate. The project provided substantial, high quality technical
assistance to support a range of health sector reforms. But evidence indicates that
Government’s uptake of this assistance was modest. The new Government, with World
Bank’s encouragement, has read all of the technical assistance reports, acknowledged its
quality and relevance, and expressed its intention to use them in continuing health sector
reform. Development partners have also noted the quality and relevance of this work and its
application in their ongoing work. There is less certainty that the excellent work on quality,
especially the accreditation process and the preparation of CPGs, will be fully exploited and
continued. It is not clear whether there is sufficient budget and commitment to move
decisively towards mandatory accreditation of all health establishments (as articulated in the
Health Care law) or to undertake the supervisory and pedagogical work to inspect and ensure
adherence to service standards and protocols. A number of respondents also noted their
concern that faculty at Tirana University Hospital do not want to be held accountable for
applying CPGs and service standards.

2.66 Governance risk is significant. The likelihood of sustaining and improving project
outcomes rests in part on the will and ability to fight corruption in the sector. The new
Government is committed to addressing corruption in the pharmaceutical sector. The

27
     Romania allocates 6 percent of its GDP to health.
28
   NQSA is playing a fundamental role in quality assurance (accreditation of health establishments, preparation
of CPGs, Health Technology Assessment, partnerships with consumers). But a culture of quality does not seem
to be sufficiently institutionalized within MoH, responsible for sector stewardship. This is reflected in the
absence of an institutional home for quality within MoH and in the absence of an appropriation of a quality
culture.
                                               33


formidable task of reducing/eliminating informal payments (bribes) for services will also
require commitment, capacity and resources. This is critical to improving service access,
especially for the poor.

2.67 Social risk is also significant. The population’s strong distrust of the health system
reflects their perception of poor services and corruption. This is likely to remain the case
unless and until the health sector develops reciprocal partnerships with civil society, patient
organizations and individual patients for the purposes of designing and delivering health
sector reform and preserving and managing their good health.

2.68   Overall Bank Performance is Moderately Satisfactory.

2.69 Quality at Entry is Rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project design was
grounded in the Health Policy Note (World Bank, 2006), which has been noted by a wide
range of informants to be of high technical quality and relevant to the challenges and
issues the sector was facing. Many informants also noted their appreciation of the
participatory approach to this sector analysis and to project design, which involved a broad
range of Albanian experts and other stakeholders. Health journalists, however, did note that
they were not included. The original design laid out a results chain that was supportive of the
project objectives, albeit omitting a few facilitating elements. The preparation process was
conducted in full consultation with key development partners supporting the sector,
especially WHO, USAID and SDC, resulting in good synergies and complementarities in
their collective efforts. The sector analysis appears to have informed and influenced
Government’s national health strategy 2007-2013, which articulated Albania’s vision for
sector reform. And the project was poised to support the implementation of this reform.

2.70 The implementation arrangements appropriately supported the management of this
project by a line Department within MoH instead of setting up a parallel project
management structure. It provided the flexibility for moving towards a sector-wide
approach arrangement at the project’s mid-point, if sufficient capacity were built. During the
mid-term review it was decided that there was insufficient capacity to move ahead on that
front. The establishment of three technical working groups was a good approach for
encouraging active involvement of key staff in the design, implementation and uptake of
technical assistance envisaged under the project. Fiduciary arrangements and staffing were
adequate. A shortcoming, however, was the ambitious (four-year) timeframe of the project,
which, in retrospect far exceeded MoH capacity to undertake the substantial procurement
under the project, particularly with regard to bid evaluation.

2.71 The project gave due attention to poverty dimensions of health sector reform,
acknowledging inequities in financial access to services, and attempting to address these
through clear pricing policies and the extension of free health insurance benefits to eligible
non-economically active populations.

2.72 The risk assessment did anticipate limited implementation capacity and leadership
turnover, which came to pass. But, overall, the original design was too complex for
implementation in a context of limited capacity. Anticipated mitigation measures were
employed, although not all were effective. The technical working groups were very slow to
                                              34


be established and become functional. Annual reviews of sector performance did not happen
until five years into the project. The reform of moving to single source purchasing under HII
leadership was also an anticipated risk for its impact on MoH and its ability to adapt to its
new roles and responsibilities. A strategy to mitigate this risk was not fully developed and
MoH (and other health institutions) could indeed have benefited from more clarity and
guidance on this front. The move toward increased independence for hospitals and
managerial autonomy and accountability was also raised as a risk, although the nature of the
risk was not well identified. Indeed, there was very little progress in undertaking this reform,
despite the technical assistance which laid out the path and the very successful experience
with the Durres Regional hospital. Mitigation measures proposed (legislation in place,
advocacy on the need for reform, involvement of stakeholders in the initial stages) were not
fully realized.

2.73 Quality of Supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank’s supervision
missions were sufficiently frequent, averaging between two and three a year during the life
of the project. Aide-memoires were thorough, representing a broad-based, systematic
supervision exercise and dialogue, each one providing an overview of progress by
component, raising issues undermining smooth implementation, and recommending actions
to improve both implementation and results. The Aide-memoires also tried to focus on
development objectives, but their tracking was made difficult with the lack of data to track
key indicators. The team made a formidable effort, not always successful, to encourage
government to work through technical groups and appoint counterparts to technical assistants
to ensure the quality and relevance of the work and its appropriation and use for reform
implementation.

2.74 The mid-term review (MTR), held in late 2008, involved a workshop with key
stakeholders. It was candid in raising concern about slow implementation and low
disbursement and proactive in discussing and agreeing with Government an action plan to
accelerate disbursements and implementation. However, Bank management’s concern about
the low disbursement rate at the time of the MTR (8 percent) led to the addition of large
packages of hospital equipment. As noted in paras. 2.36 and 2.37, this equipment did not
contribute directly to PDO#1 (improved access, quality, use of PHC services and reduced
unnecessary use of hospital services). And it did not contribute to PDO#3 (improved
hospital governance and management). In retrospect, the purchase of hospital equipment
might have been used to leverage and support the piloting of the hospital rationalization plan,
as envisaged under the project, which remains unimplemented.

2.75 Supervision of fiduciary aspects was also thorough. Bank staff worked closely with
Government to explain the Bank guidelines and requirements for procurement of goods and
works, selection of consultants, and financial management and reporting under the project.
The one mis-procurement issue was well-handled. The Bank invested considerable staff time
(including the involvement of the Regional Vice President, Country Director and Country
management) to discuss this issue and, exceptionally, granted two extensions providing the
opportunity for MoH to reverse its decision. But in the end, the Minister of Health insisted
on maintaining their procurement decision in line with the Albanian Procurement Law, thus
precipitating the Bank’s declaration of mis-procurement.
                                               35


2.76 The quality of the Bank’s team has been widely acclaimed. There is great
appreciation of the technical competence of the Bank’s missions (from project identification
to project completion), their consultative and collegial mode of work, and the continuity of
dialogue and support. Special appreciation of the field-based Task Team Leader (TTL) was
expressed by many for her commitment and availability. Before she became TTL, she was a
member of the team from the outset, providing continuity over the full seven years, and she
continues in this capacity, leading the development of a follow-on health operation. Good
coordination and collaboration with key development partners continued during supervision.

2.77 Over and above work on the follow-on health operation, the Bank was very
supportive and proactive in ensuring adequate transition arrangements. In particular, very
soon after the new Government was established in September 2013, the Bank’s team
prepared and discussed a health sector policy brief to open up a productive and supportive
dialogue. Moreover, the team encouraged the incoming Minister and his new high-level
team to read the numerous relevant technical assistance reports produced under the project as
input and support to their vision for sector development. Interviews and other secondary
evidence revealed that these technical inputs are likely to be effectively used.

2.78   Overall Borrower Performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

2.79 Government Performance is Moderately Unsatisfactory. Government did honor
its commitment to pay the project counterpart funding, providing US$2.9 million or 140
percent of the original amount of US$2.1 million. It complied with all key covenants, albeit
late in fulfilling one of them (first submission of annual health sector performance report in
2011, five years after the project start).

2.80 Rapid turnover of Ministers (on average one new Minister per year during the
project life), consequent rapid turnover of senior and well qualified technical staff, and the
appointment of unqualified staff for political reasons, all reported by a range of informants
and documented in Aide-Memoires, seriously undermined health sector capacity to
implement reforms, institutional memory, and investments in training and capacity
building. This phenomenon is reported to have even pervaded appointments of hospital
directors. Some report that technical capacity in the MoH has declined as a consequence.

2.81 Project implementation was very slow. The first few years were wrought with delays
in setting up the three technical working groups and in appointing counterparts for key
technical assistants. Commitment to the reform of hospitals, especially with regard to their
autonomous management, including the establishment of Hospital Boards, was not very
apparent. Several informants noted that the autonomy and rationalization of hospitals has
been discussed for more than two decades, but no action has been taken. This is particularly
perplexing, given the well-known, unequivocal success of the Durres Regional Hospital,
which has been functioning autonomously – on a pilot basis – for ten years. It is the best
performing hospital in the country, fulfilling its functions as a regional hospital, the only one
being financed by HII through a performance contract, and the only hospital in the country
that is debt free. Likewise, the delays in implementing the hospital rationalization strategy,
well-laid out and agreed at the technical level under the project, are indicative of weak
                                                     36


political commitment and/or weak governance.29 MoH’s exhibited no interest or action to
implement the grant facility for quality innovations at the PHC level, yet another indicator of
a lack of commitment to the quality agenda.

2.82 Tensions between MoH and HII centered on their evolving roles and authority (HII
assuming purchasing responsibilities for all services, and MoH taking on sector stewardship
roles). This affected project performance. These tensions were also palpable at the regional
level.

2.83 HII was successful in using project assistance to establish, finance and oversee
performance contracts with the PHC facilities, based on capitation and bonuses. But delays
in critical decisions about the health information system resulted in the project’s inability to
finance the software.

2.84 Implementing Agency Performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The project
implementation unit within MoH carried out well most aspects of project management,
including financial management, procurement, reporting and disbursements. Financial
management performance was satisfactory, and good internal controls were in place, along
with arrangements for disbursement, staffing, reporting and auditing. Audits were completed
on time and did not highlight any major irregularities. Quarterly financial reports were
almost always on time. The financial specialist had the appropriate skills and abilities.
Procurement activities followed Bank Guidelines, with the exception of one mis-procurement
(para 2.14). Inadequate skills within MoH to prepare and evaluate bids (technical
specifications and English language) caused delays.

2.85 Quarterly and annual reports on the project performance were submitted on time. The
Bank’s team has noted that they were of good quality providing valuable information on
progress in implementation. Performance indicators were also reported in progress reports,
to the extent that data were available. But poor data availability and reliability and ill-
defined indicators not always linked to project objectives undermined the tracking of
progress against development objectives.

2.86    Monitoring and Evaluation was Modest.

2.87 M&E Design was thorough in the original design with baselines, annual targets, data
sources, frequency of collection and responsibilities all spelled out. However, attempts to
simplify indicators during the restructuring weakened the M&E design (para. 2.8).

2.88 M&E Implementation fell short of expectations because of the lack of timely,
reliable data and ill-defined indicators (para. 2.17).

2.89 M&E Utilization. Even though project M&E did not generate reliable data for
decision-making, the performance data developed under the HII scheme for performance
based bonuses had a positive effect on the use of data for decision-making. This being said,

29
  Nevertheless, as noted in para 2.62, Albania’s newly elected Government appears to be strongly committed to
implementing these reforms.
                                              37


the use was limited to the financing of bonuses. There was no apparent use of data at district,
regional or central levels to assess overall trends or to use them to enhance progress towards
the PDOs.
                                                      38


3. Social Sector Reform Development Policy Loan
A. Objectives, Design and Their Relevance

3.1     Objectives.30 The objective of the Social Sector Reform Development Policy
Loan (DPL) was to support policy changes to (i) improve the effectiveness of social
safety nets, and (ii) enhance the efficiency and equity of health spending, in a fiscally
sustainable environment.31 The DPL was also intended to enhance transparency and
accountability by supporting policies to improve the administration of social assistance
programs and promoting the use of systematic formulas to allocate resources in selected
social programs and services.

3.2     Relevance of Objectives is rated High, although the articulation of the
objectives is awkward, presenting challenges for their evaluation. Albania’s National
Strategy for Development and Integration 2014-202032 emphasizes the importance of
moving from greater wealth to enhanced wellbeing, noting that wellbeing and equality of
opportunity in Albania requires economic and social development that is cohesive,
inclusive and balanced. It expresses Government commitment to increasing the equity
and efficiency of the social assistance scheme (encompassing both NE and disability),
stressing the importance of improved targeting of the poor, and enhanced efficiency and
impact on the lives of the poor and disabled. Its health policies seek to ensure equitable
access to health services, better service delivery and improved financial efficiency of the
health system.

3.3     The objectives are also highly relevant to the Bank’s current strategy in Albania.
The CPS for Albania for the period FY11-FY14 emphasizes the importance of continuing
efforts to reduce poverty and vulnerability. It highlights significant opportunities to
improve targeting and administration of the NE for greater coverage of those most in
need and for more efficient and transparent administration. It also highlights the
ballooning disability fund expenditures, to the detriment of NE which shares the same
budget envelope, and opportunities to improve eligibility criteria and their application for
potential savings, enhanced transparency and efficiency of disability spending. On the
health front, the CPS notes that reform of health service delivery and financing has not
been fully implemented and serious problems remain to be confronted: (i) regional
imbalances and unequal access; (ii) payment systems that are unsuited to promoting cost
containment or efficient resource use; and (iii) weak sector management capacities. It

30
  Statement of objectives is taken from the World Bank’s Program Document of March 28, 2011. There is
no statement of objectives in the Loan Agreement, as is typical for DPLs.
31
     This latter objective was synergistic with the HSMP investment operation, evaluated in Chapter 2.
32
   This document, in draft (June 2013) was cited to IEG as the most recent statement of national strategies
and priorities. It was prepared just prior to the change in Government, but with the full participation of all
political parties. Interviews have confirmed that this strategy is largely reflective of the new Government’s
vision, and any updates are expected to be minor, given its socialist orientation. The new Minister of
Social Welfare and Youth expressed that he intends to do all he can to implement new social assistance
policy passed under the DPL to eliminate the inefficiencies this legislation is intended to address. The new
Minister of Health, as well, expressed his intention to address the pressing issues of health spending
inequities and inefficiencies, as priority.
                                                        39


also cites ongoing efforts to transform health financing from input-based to performance-
based.

3.4     The DPL objectives are also highly relevant to country conditions. Both the
analytic work undertaken as part of the DPL preparation (and the ensuing dialogue) and
IEG’s interviews with a wide range of actors and stakeholders33 make it clear that (a) the
challenges identified and addressed under this operation (Box 3.1.) continue to be of high
priority, especially for the new socialist Government, and (b) that the DPL objectives
were well poised to launch needed reform and make strategic headway in meeting those
challenges.

3.5     Design. The DPL was designed to support legislative reform in two policy areas
addressing the seven most pressing challenges identified through analytic work and
sector dialogue (Box 3.1.). From the outset, this design was grounded in synergies
expected to be achieved with two other investment operations: (a) the Social Assistance
Modernization Project (SAMP), designed to support the implementation of social
assistance policy reform achieved under the DPL (see Annex G for an overview of the
SAMP); and (b) the HSMP, evaluated in Chapter 2 of this report, which included
technical assistance for the design of the health financing law and support for reform
implementation.

3.6     Policy Area #1: Social Safety Net Effectiveness. Four areas of support were
envisaged. First, the DPL was to support measures to improve targeting of the NE Social
Assistance Program at the central and municipal levels, revising the legislation to (i)
include poverty as a criterion to determine allocations of grants for the NE program from
central to municipal levels; and (ii) specify that a means-testing formula would be
adopted to determine which households would be eligible to receive the benefits within
each municipality. This revised formula was envisaged to incorporate (a) easily observed
and verified (formal) incomes; and (b) other proxy variables (e.g., the imputed value of
assets and possession of consumer durable goods) that represent observable
characteristics with empirical correlation with poverty status and/or help predict “hard to
measure” incomes. Special circumstances identified by local councils or social
administrators could be considered, if incorporated into the single scoring formula, with
transparent weights relative to other eligibility criteria.

3.7      Second, the DPL was to support changes to limit the rapidly increasing share of
the disability component of social assistance spending. As a first step, the DPL would
support a change in the indexation rules, moving from the current indexation (at least
minimum wage increase) to an indexation linked to inflation. This would control
spending, while maintaining the living standards of the disability beneficiaries.

3.8     Third, in order to make the social assistance system more proactive, the DPL was
to support the introduction of a bonus for NE beneficiaries with school-age children as an
incentive for daily school enrollment/attendance. Linking NE benefits to education-


33
  Including the new Minister of Social Welfare and Youth, the new Minister of Health, a range of Government actors
and implementers, development partners and others.
                                                   40


related incentives of NE families with school aged children was expected to improve the
effectiveness of the program for long-run poverty reduction.

Box 3.1. Priority Social Assistance and Health Sector Challenges Targeted under the
DPL
Policy Area #1: Challenges impeding the effectiveness of social safety nets
 Existing mechanisms for targeting the Ndihma Ekonomike Social Assistance Program benefits lack
    transparency and exclude a large share of the poor.
 Spending on social assistance has been shifting away from poverty reduction programs.
 The NE Social Assistance Program is currently “passive” – lacking proactive links to human capital or
    employment services that could potentially enhance its effectiveness for reducing poverty in the long-
    run.
 The administration of the NE Social Assistance Program needs to be strengthened.
Policy Area #2: Challenges impeding the efficiency and equity of health spending:
 Access to health care services by poor households is not universal and financial constraints limit
    utilization among the poor.
 Funding for Health Insurance is not based on systematic criteria
 The Health Insurance Institute needs to increase its efficiency as purchaser of health care services
Source: World Bank, March 2011.


3.9     Fourth, The DPL was intended to support the first steps to improving the
administration of NE benefits. To this end, the automation of the NE benefits system was
one of the main priorities of Government, but was understood to require time and
significant funding, especially for creating electronic databases and intercommunication
systems of various programs. Government had already completed an assessment of the
operational aspects of the NE program, including information flows, financial flows,
functional responsibilities and institutional capacity. The DPL was to support
amendment of NE legislation to institutionalize the automation of the beneficiary
registry, mandating the creation of a national registry of all applicants and beneficiaries.

3.10 Policy Area #2: Health Spending Efficiency and Equity. First, in support of
increased transparency and access to basic care for all, the DPL was to leverage the
passage of health insurance legislation, which would provide for the extension of health
insurance coverage to all beneficiaries of the NE social assistance program and establish
the principle of an explicit package of benefits for beneficiaries, providing the basis for
assessing the cost of benefits. It was assumed that an explicit package of benefits would
improve awareness of patients of what services they are entitled to receive; and the
(eventual) pricing of these services was expected to reduce the scope for informal
payments. The establishment of the principle under the legislation was expected to be
followed by secondary legislation specifying the package and its costs.

3.11 Second, the DPL was to support a more systematic approach to health financing,
including provisions under the legislation to maintain the payroll contribution for health
insurance at 3.4 percent and to establish that transfers from the Treasury to HII on behalf
of the uninsured would be based on the cost of providing a basic package of services.
Above-cited secondary legislation was to determine the exact package and the provisions
to cost it. Third, in 2009 the Government unified the resources for health under one
single agency, the HII. This means, in principle, that the HII purchases most health
                                                      41


services, both at primary and hospital level.34 The DPL was to support the development
and co-signature (by HII and hospitals) of hospital performance contracts to support HII
in its newly assigned role as sole purchaser of health services. In this early stage of
hospital performance contracting, the HII was creating a performance analysis and
contracting department.

3.12 An important feature of the DPL was its design as an integral element of a
package of Bank support, composed of: (1) sound analytic work and dialogue, which
provided the evidence base and commitment for reform; (2) the DPL, itself, providing
technical support and political leverage for the design and passage of the legislation;35
and (3) complementary investment operations: (a) for the social assistance policy area,
medium-term support for the design and passage of secondary legislation and for reform
implementation under a follow-on Social Assistance Modernization Project (SAMP)
(approved by the Board of Directors on April 3, 2012, one year after approval of this
DPL); and (b) for the health policy area, the HSMP (approved by the Board of Directors
on June 14, 2006, and closed on June 30, 2012).

3.13 Relevance of Design is rated Substantial, overall, but with some shortcomings
on the health front. For the most part, the project’s design is consistent with its stated
objectives and its causal chain clear. In support of the first objective to support policy
changes to improve the effectiveness of social safety nets, under Policy Area #1, the DPL
aimed to provide technical support to the design of legislation that would address the four
priority issues (or “challenges”) that most undermined the effectiveness of social safety
nets: ineffective targeting and lack of transparency in the NE social assistance program;
the rapid growth in the disability component of the social assistance envelope, squeezing
out the NE component; the lack of proactive links or synergies between the NE program
and other human capital services; and the inefficient administration of the NE program.
These technical inputs were directly linked to the outputs (which were the Government’s
prior actions under the DPL) – the passage of legislation setting the stage for
improvements on each of these four fronts, with the leverage of the DPL. In turn, these
outputs enabled the outcome: needed policy changes in place and being implemented to
improve social safety net effectiveness.

3.14 Likewise, in support of the second objective to support policy changes to enhance
the efficiency and equity of health spending in a fiscally sustainable environment, under
Policy Area #2, the DPL, taking advantage of the technical support and dialogue under
the ongoing HSMP, aimed to leverage the passage of legislation that would address
priority issues that most threatened health spending efficiency (inadequate basis for
efficient health insurance funding and inefficiency of the HII as sole purchaser of health
care services) and equity (limited access and utilization of health services by the poor).
The technical inputs provided under the HSMP, along with the leverage of the DPL, were

34
  The Ministry of Health is still responsible for financing: public health activities, two mental health
hospitals, the Licensing and Accreditation Center, blood banks and other minor activities.
35
  This was particularly the case for the social assistance policy area. The preparation of the health policy
area, specifically, the preparation, vetting and refinement of the health insurance legislation (Law No.
10383 of February 24, 2011 “On Compulsory Health Care Insurance in the Republic of Albania”), was
funded and technically supported under the ongoing HSMP.
                                                 42


designed to culminate in the achievement of Government’s prior actions (or outputs) –
the passage of health insurance legislation and the development and signature of
performance-based contracts with hospitals. These outputs fed directly into the outcome:
needed policy changes in place and being implemented to improve the efficiency and
equity of health spending. Nevertheless the health design had shortcomings, relative to
the social assistance design. First, the passage of the health insurance law was less
strategic for DPL leverage than the social assistance legislation because it had already
been designed and developed under the HSMP, as well as refined and vetted both within
MoH and with Ministry of Finance, and strongly supported by them. In retrospect, the
preparation/approval of the secondary legislation (defining and costing the health
insurance benefits package, para. 3.10) may have been more appropriate for strategic
leveraging under the DPL. Indeed, this secondary legislation still has not been prepared.
Second, the HSMP closed in June 2012, two months after the DPL closed, and there has
been no follow-on health investment operation since, a period approaching two years.36
In short, there was no health investment operation in place to support implementation of
these policy reforms. Both sets of legislation (under Policy Areas #1 and #2) were also
directly supportive of the objective of improved accountability and transparency, as they
contained provisions for improving the administration of social assistance and health
programs and the use of systematic formulas to allocate resources more equitably and
efficiently.

3.15 The choice of the DPL instrument was appropriate, especially for the social
assistance policy area. The single-tranche disbursement to the Ministry of Finance was
needed during the time of the economic crisis, thus providing leverage for the passage of
this legislation. It properly embedded the dialogue, technical and strategic discussions,
and adoption of social sector reform in the upper echelons of Government structures, all
the while working with the two technical Ministries. The good timing and utility of this
instrument were confirmed by the Deputy Minister of Finance and other high-level
Government officials in the relevant sectors. The design recognized the comparative
advantage of the DPL and linked it well with a follow-on social assistance investment
operations poised to support the technical Ministry in the piloting and eventual
nationwide implementation of the new social assistance laws and policies, including the
design of secondary legislation and its implementation. The timing and links with the
health sector operation were less fortuitous, as detailed in para. 3.13. The assessment of
risks and risk mitigation provisions were sound, covering macroeconomic, technical,
social and political aspects. Only the macroeconomic risk came to pass. This is detailed
in the “Implementation” section of this Chapter.

3.16 However, the M&E design of the DPL was weak. Two sets of outcome
indicators directly related to the DPL were articulated in the Policy Matrix (Annex 2 of
the Program Document): (a) “short-term outcome indicators” (whose timeframe was not
specifically defined); and (b) “outcome indicators” (expected to be achieved by the
closing date of the DPL, April 30, 2012 -- a year after approval). A third set of
(“medium-term outcome”) indicators was also included in the Policy Matrix, with the
caveat that, although enabled by the DPL, these would be achieved under the investment
36
  A Health System Improvement Project is currently under preparation and scheduled for Board approval
around end-CY2014.
                                                  43


operations, beyond the timeframe of the DPL. The two sets of indicators established for
the DPL were for the most part too ambitious for the short timeframe and (some) difficult
to measure due to the infrequency of LSMS exercises.

3.17 Implementation Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance was responsible for
overseeing the implementation of Government’s prior actions included in the DPL, while
the overall design and technical work was the responsibility of the two technical
Ministries (Labor, Social Assistance and Equal Opportunities; and Health) and the Health
Insurance Institute (HII). These technical agencies were also responsible ultimately for
the implementation of new policy, under separate investment operations.

B. Implementation

3.18 Key Dates. The project was identified in late 2009. Following preparation work
throughout 2010, it was appraised in February 2011 and approved on April 28, 2011.
Upon satisfactory evidence that the two conditions of effectiveness had been met (all
prior actions taken; and the adequacy of the macroeconomic policy framework), the loan
was declared effective on August 25, 2011, at which time the US$25 million tranche was
disbursed. Two supervision missions were conducted, respectively, in September 2011
and April 2012.

3.19 Over and above the series of DPL missions (from 2009 to 2012), technical
discussions and support took place, as well, in the context of the two complementary
investment operations. The Social Assistance Modernization Project (SAMP), designed
to support the implementation of the social assistance policy area of the DPL, was
identified in mid-2011, appraised in January 2012, and approved on April 3, 2012, at the
time of the closing date of the DPL. The series of missions to this end, helped sustain the
momentum of the DPL and prepare for its sound and timely implementation. Aide-
memoires on the supervision of the ongoing health operation (HSMP) indicate discussion
of refinements to health financing legislation and possible inclusion in a DPL as early as
2006. But later health Aide-memoires37 reveal concrete discussions and ongoing
refinements of this legislation, with revised drafts and Bank extensive comments on the
drafts, as well as references to relevant technical assistance, in annex.

3.20 Macroeconomic Performance.38 At the time of the DPL preparation, Albania
had been successful in sustaining the macroeconomic stability of the country amidst the
pressures of the international financial crisis. In the aftermath of the global crisis in
2009, Albania had achieved a growth rate of 3.3 percent, one of the few positive growth
rates recorded in Europe. Factored into this success were the positive performance of
agriculture and services and the expansionary fiscal policy initiated before the crisis,

37
     Five Aide-memoires between 2008 and 2010.
38
   For this analysis, baseline information on economic performance and Government commitment to
maintaining macroeconomic stability are drawn from Government’s Letter of Development Policy, March
18, 2011, annexed to the PAD of March 7, 2012. Information on actual economic performance is drawn
from the Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report, April 18, 2013, cited by the Deputy Minister of
Finance and the outgoing World Bank Country Director to the IEG mission as the most recent update of
economic performance.
                                                    44


which offset the decline in the extracting industry and construction. Strong export
recovery and good energy sector performance in 2010 caused growth projections to be
optimistic. With the signs of global and domestic economic recovery, the fiscal deficit
had been reduced to 3 percent of GDP in 2010 from 7.1 percent in 2009, precipitating a
decline in the public debt from 59.7 percent in 2009 to 59.4 percent in 2010. Projections
were optimistic based on the positive trends of key indicators, including the increase of
credit to the economy, the increase of exports and private investment, a decline in the
interest rate and the stabilization of the Lek exchange rate.

3.21 Against this backdrop, in its Letter of Development Policy for the DPL, the
Government committed itself to sustaining the country’s macroeconomic stability amidst
the pressures of the international financial crisis. Specifically, the Government
committed to:

    Achieving an annual GDP growth rate of 6.0 percent by 2012, up from a baseline of
     3.5 percent in 2010;39
    Achieving a fiscal deficit ratio of 3.0 percent by 2012 and thereafter, from an
     estimated baseline of 3.1 percent in 2010 and a projected increase to 3.5 percent in
     2011, before its anticipated return to 3.0 percent; and
    Reducing the public debt ratio from a baseline of 59.4 percent in 2010 to 56 percent
     by 2013. (This is in keeping with the legal limit set by Government in 2008 to
     maintain the public debt level below 60 percent of GDP.)

3.22 There were also uncertainties about the economy in 2010, especially with regard
to the shaky financial and economic situation of Western Europe, the main destination for
Albanian exports and the main source of remittances. In response to these, Government’s
Letter of Development Policy included provisions for making needed adjustments to
ensure that fiscal consolidation commitments and targets would be preserved, in the event
of lower than planned revenues. These provisions included: reserves (unallocated
expenditures) in the 2011 budget of about 0.4 percent of GDP; buffers (budgets higher
than expected needs) for several expenditure items equivalent to an additional 0.4 percent
of GDP; and a mechanism to postpone part of capital spending until the mid-year budget
review, at which time such expenditure could be initiated or further postponed, depending
on revenue performance. Such provisions had already proven themselves, having been
included and successfully utilized in the 2010 budget.

3.23 Achievement of economic and fiscal targets has fallen short of expectations.
Albania’s growth outlook has weakened substantially due mainly to the continued
deterioration of the external environment. Actual growth rates were 3.5 percent in
2010, 3.0 percent in 2011 and 0.8 percent (estimated) in 2012; and they are projected to
average 2.0 percent per annum during the period 2012-2015. This is in sharp contrast
with the level of 3.6 percent achieved during the first three quarters of 2010 and the
projections made in the DPL documentation of growth rates of 4.1 percent for 2010 (all

39
  IEG questions the realism of a 6 percent growth target, in light of considerably more modest forecasts (of
3.2 percent for 2011 and 3.6 percent for 2012) made by the International Monetary Fund’s Article IV
Mission of 2010. (IMF 2010) The consequences of the financial crisis appear to have been apparent by
mid-2011 when the loan was approved.
                                            45


four quarters), 5.5 percent for 2011, and 6.0 percent for 2012. In short, the economic
crisis led to lower remittances and exports, which in turn contributed to lower growth and
fiscal revenues. An IEG evaluation of the Bank’s response to the global crisis notes that
Albania was a severe crisis country with a credit crunch the Bank aimed to help address.
(IEG 2012)

3.24 While an expansionary fiscal policy helped to mitigate the negative effects of
the global financial crisis in 2009, fiscal space became exhausted and public debt is
projected to exceed 60 percent of GDP in 2012 and 2013. In 2010, with fiscal space
tight and revenue growth slowing, the Government cut expenditures by 9.5 percent at
mid-year, reducing the fiscal deficit to 3.1 percent of GDP (down from 7 percent in
2009). Another mid-term fiscal adjustment (1.4 percent of GDP) was made in 2011 to
keep public debt within 60 percent. However, Government did not make a mid-year
fiscal adjustment in 2012, even though revenues were again lower than projected. This is
because Government anticipated revenues from privatization. Ultimately, delays with
completing privatization transactions, combined with a looming energy shortage, caused
an increase in the fiscal deficit to 3.5 percent of GDP in 2012, pushing the debt level to
60.8 percent. Moreover, there are sizable outstanding bills and accumulated arrears for
public works and full VAT reimbursements (about 200 million euros, according to IMF
estimates). In December 2012, Parliament approved the removal of the 60 percent
ceiling from the organic budget law, without proposing any other limit or goal. Albania’s
2013 budget targets a general government fiscal deficit of 3.4 percent and predicts a
further increase in public debt. Both the public debt level (60.8 percent in 2012) and the
fiscal deficit (3.5 percent in 2012) failed to achieve targets set under the
DPL/Government’s Letter of Development policy, respectively, a public debt level of 56
percent by 2013, and a fiscal deficit of 3.0 percent by 2012 and thereafter. Indeed,
Parliament’s removal of the 60 percent legal limit for the debt level and a revised fiscal
deficit target of 3.4 percent under the 2013 budget give cause for concern.

3.25 The CPS 2011-2014 highlights the importance of critical steps for improved
economic management, especially: clearing arrears to private companies, together with
establishing an effective mechanism for commitment control; lowering public debt over
the medium-term. External imbalances improved in 2012, but remain high. The
financial sector has remained largely stable vis-à-vis the ongoing Eurozone crisis, but
faces escalating risks derived from the prolonged unfavorable external environment and
the continued deterioration of banks’ loan quality. The Bank of Albania has been
proactive in adopting prudent measures to safeguard financial stability but continued
efforts are needed.

3.26 The recent sluggish economic performance has likely been insufficient to reduce
poverty. Although Albania experienced rapid poverty reduction up to 2008, the effects of
slower growth appear to be placing a large part of the population under increasing strain.
Preliminary results from the 2012 LSMS indicate a slight increase in poverty, a reversal
of the positive trend of poverty reduction since the new millennium.

3.27 M&E Implementation is modest. Because the outcome indicators set for the
DPL were more dependent upon the follow-on implementation assistance envisaged
under the SAMP and because of the inadequate frequency of LSMS exercises (and the
                                                   46


continued unavailability of the LSMS 2012 results), there was very limited M&E work
undertaken during the short implementation period of the DPL.

C. Achievement of the Objectives40

PDO#1: To support policy changes to improve the effectiveness of social safety nets:
Substantially Achieved

3.28 Prior Actions established a sound legislative framework for improving the
effectiveness of social safety nets. Through its prior actions under the DPL, Government
has passed legislation to: (i) strengthen the mechanisms of the NE program to allocate
funds and target the poorest of the poor; (ii) change the indexation formula of the
disability benefits package program to control the share of resources allocated to this
program, which is growing disproportionately; (iii) introduce incentives for investing in
human capital by providing an additional benefit under the NE program linked to school
enrollment and attendance for families with school-age children; and (iv) mandate the
creation of an automated national registry for applicants and beneficiaries of the social
assistance program. This legislation creates an enabling environment for the
implementation of these reforms, which address the most pressing challenges to social
safety nets effectiveness.

3.29 Implementation of social assistance reform is well underway with strong
Government commitment, after some initial delays caused by a change in Government.
Once the new Government was in place (fall 2013), the Bank acted expeditiously with
policy briefs and policy dialogue with the new Government, which fully embraced this
new legislation and expressed its commitment to move forward with its implementation.

3.30 Indeed progress in implementation is now well underway. Training of social
assistance administrative staff at all levels of the system (central level and in the three
pilot regions, covering 50 percent of the entire population) had already taken place. IEG
interviews with many of these staff indicated their full knowledge of the law, their strong
commitment to its implementation and their solid experience and capacity. The
secondary legislation on the implementation of the proxy means test for improved
poverty targeting (referred to as the Unified Scoring Formula in Albania) in three pilot
areas was approved in December 2012. The management information system for the
poverty targeted program is established and fully operational and applications are now
being accepted using this system (and the proxy means test) as part of a test phase.
Social Assistance program managers and staff interviewed by IEG were emphatic in their
assertion that this registry (already developed and being piloted) will facilitate their work.
It is also revealing its utility in reducing the exorbitant time commitments and costs of the
poor to access social assistance (associated with acquisition/purchase of documentation to
demonstrate their eligibility for NE support). Full implementation of the new targeting
methodology and the MIS started in May in the three pilot areas.



40
  For more detail, Annex H presents a matrix on each of the two project objectives assessing outcomes
against objectives and performance indicators.
                                             47


3.31 Over and above the indexation of disability benefits to inflation, reform of
disability is also intended to address the increase in the number of beneficiaries through
the redesign of eligibility criteria, reduction of fraud, and the building of a MIS for
disability. Interventions for implementing disability reform, which is more politically
complex, are planned to be undertaken by Government once the NE pilot is well
underway.

3.32 Additionally, in principle the Bank and the former Government had agreed that
NE bonuses linked to school attendance (provided for under the new law) would be
tackled after first generation reforms on targeting methodology and modernization of
systems are implemented. However, the current Government was keen to prepare the
legal ground for this eventual reform. It has already drafted the secondary legislation on
both education (linked to secondary school attendance) and health (linked to full
vaccination of children) bonuses; and it is now preparing for approval of this secondary
legislation with plans for its implementation after pilot implementation of new targeting
methodology and MIS.

3.33 While ambitious outcome indicators established under the DPL have not yet
been achieved, Government commitment and its notable progress in social assistance
reform implementation provide strong indication that improved effectiveness of social
safety nets is being achieved and related targets are likely to be achieved, albeit later
than initially expected. Changing the targeting methodology is expected to address the
currently high exclusion errors and also improve the governance of the transfers as under
the new targeting system the discretionary aspect of eligibility decisions are taken away.
Eligibility is based solely on objective, transparent criteria. With implementation now
underway: (a) an authorizing environment has been established for a more transparent
and predictable block grant allocation on the basis of poverty indicators; (b) increased
percentage of poor receiving means-based social assistance (from 22 percent in 2008 to
30 percent in 2012) is delayed, but very likely to be achieved; (c) increased share of
benefits accruing to the poor (from 42 percent in 2008 to 60 percent in 2013) is also
delayed, but likely. But this is estimated to take another year or two.

3.34 Disability reform implementation under the project is expected to culminate in the
achievement of outcome targets: (a) five percent savings under disability spending due to
indexation reform (a target initially set for 2012) is likely to be achieved (quite possibly
exceeded), but later than planned; and (b) stabilization in the number of disability
beneficiaries as a (unspecified) percent of the population is also likely and an explicit
focus of the SAMP. Once bonuses for school attendance and vaccinations are activated
(relevant secondary legislation has already been prepared by Government), they are
expected to increase school attendance and vaccination rates of children from NE
beneficiary families.

PDO#2: To support policy changes to enhance the efficiency and equity of health
spending: Modestly Achieved

3.35 Improved health spending efficiency has not yet been achieved, and
implementation support to this end has ceased with the closing of HSMP two years
ago. Additional support will be needed.
                                                  48


3.36 Prior actions established a sound legislative framework for improving the
efficiency of health spending. Through its prior actions the Government has (i) passed
legislation to introduce more predictable fiscal rules to finance health (maintaining health
insurance payroll contributions at the current 3.4 percent level,4142 and mandating that
health transfers be based on the costs of services, among other criteria);43 (ii) transferred
the responsibility of financing hospitals to HII (already responsible for PHC financing) in
order to unify the publicly funded purchasing of health services under one agency; and
(iii) prompted the signature of performance contracts between HII and the 42 hospitals in
Albania.

3.37 However, implementation of this new framework supported under the Health
Sector Modernization Project (HSMP) has been mixed, and outcomes have not been
achieved. The health financing law protects employers and employees from any
increases in their 3.4 percent payroll contribution to health insurance, of which 1.7
percent is paid by the employer and 1.7 percent paid by the employee. But the cost of
services is not yet used as a basis for the public transfers for health financing, because the
definition and costing of the package of services offered at the PHC and hospital levels
are still ongoing. USAID and MoH published a document in December 2008, which
defines the characteristics of a typical health center as well as the basic package of
services in the health center. But these have not been costed. USAID has also published
a document, undertaken in conjunction with MoH and HII, which proposes definitions of
hospital services packages for district, regional and tertiary hospitals, along the lines of
the hospital rationalization plan. But the cost implications of these have not been fully
assessed.

3.38 HII is officially assigned responsibility for the purchase of all health services
(PHC and hospitals) since 2009, but its ability to fulfill this role has been constrained.
Even though performance contracts were signed with 42 hospitals, (i) the hospital
budgets are still prepared and approved by the Council of Ministers on the basis of
historical budgets (number of beds) and not on the basis of services provided and
performance; and (ii) 95 percent of hospital financing is still channeled through the
Treasury, and paid on the basis of expenditure receipts, not performance. HII is
responsible for distributing only 5 percent of the hospital budgets. The only exception to
this current practice is the Durres Regional Hospital, whose budget is channeled through
HII, due to its special status as a pilot hospital.

3.39 The Health Financing Law mandate (that the transfer of resources for the
purchase of health services be based on the definition and costing of the package of
services to be offered at each level of the referral system) has the potential to enhance
transparency especially for hospitals, whose current budgets (based on the number of

41
   Article 8 of Law No. 10383 of February 4, 2011 on “Compulsory Health Care Insurance in the Republic
of Albania.”
42
  This measure precedes by several years the election of the new Government in 2013, which is now
contemplating a tax-based system for financing universal health care.
43
  Articles 10 and 30 of Law No. 10383 of February 4, 2011 on “Compulsory Health Care Insurance in the
Republic of Albania.”
                                                    49


beds) culminate in highly inefficient allocation of scare resources. But it has yet to be
implemented.

3.40 Improved equity of health spending has not yet been achieved, and
implementation support to this end has ceased with the closing of HSMP. Additional
support will be needed.

3.41 An additional prior action established a sound legislative framework for
improving the equity of health spending. Article 5 of Law No. 10383 of February 4,
2011 on “Compulsory Health Care Insurance in the Republic of Albania” extends health
insurance coverage to 100 percent of social assistance beneficiaries.44

3.42 However, this measure has not been implemented under HSMP – or the target
achieved. The Government has not implemented extension of free health insurance
coverage to 100 percent of NE recipients, as articulated under the law. Fiscal concerns
have prevented the extension of this coverage for the moment; and the fiscal impact of
this policy (based on the definition and costing of the package of services) has not yet
been fully assessed. Currently, public health insurance is estimated to cover about 60
percent of the population, but only half of the poor (World Bank 2014).45 The new
Government has a vision of universal health coverage to be financed by the State.
Implementation of this policy still requires the definition of the package of services to be
offered and the costing of this policy. While this policy would in principle provide free
health services for all the population, including NE beneficiaries, the likelihood of this
outcome is difficult to predict at this point in time.

3.43 The outcome associated with reductions in health spending by the poor is
difficult to document, and, in any case, could not be attributed to this legislation, as it
has not been implemented. Data is limited to assess any trend of reductions in spending
on health by the poor,46 but available evidence suggests that the poor’s financial access to
services remains very limited and unchanged (paras. 2.25-2.29). In any case, data and
trends should be interpreted with caution, since low spending by the poor for health care
may be reflective of their avoidance of health care services, as revealed in the 2013
USAID study, rather than of their improved affordability. World Bank secondary
analysis of LSMS data estimates that in 2012 the poverty headcount increased from 14.3
percent to 20.3 percent when OOP spending on health is subtracted from household
consumption. This means that the poverty rate increased by as much as 42 percent, as a


44
   While not specified among the DPL prior actions, it is significant to note that Article 5 of this Law
specifies additional categories of economically non-active people who would be covered under the health
insurance: beneficiaries of Social Insurance Institute; disability beneficiaries; people registered as
unemployed jobseekers through the National Employment Service; foreign asylum seekers in the country;
children under the age of 18 years; pupils and students under the age of 25 years, provided they do not have
incomes from business activities; and categories of persons defined by special laws.
45
   While coverage is inequitable, with 52 percent coverage of the lowest quintile of per capita consumption
and 67 percent coverage of the highest quintile, this represents an improvement over 2008, when 27 percent
of the lowest quintile was covered versus 54 percent of the highest quintile.
46
     A soon-to-be-issued PER may shed more light on this.
                                                      50


consequence of health-related spending, higher than the increase of about one third,
calculated for 2008 (from 12.5 percent to 16.9 percent) (World Bank 2014).

3.44 Counterfactual and Attribution. Systematic interviews with a wide range of
informants and IEG’s own assessment on the ground explored the counterfactual of no
DPL. Evidence is overwhelming that without the DPL, the social assistance legislation
may not have been passed at all. At the very least, it would have experienced long delays
and its quality – both technical and strategic – would have suffered. Respondents were
unanimous in noting that, had there been no DPL, there would be no SAMP. This would
mean continued lack of transparency, abuse of funds, inefficient targeting and resource
allocation and ineffective administration. No other development agency was providing
support to this end. The Ministry of Social Welfare would not have been able to achieve
the passage of these reforms on its own, from technical, political and strategic
perspectives. Thus, an attempt to achieve this legislative reform under an investment
operation is not likely to have been successful. This assessment reflects the views of the
Ministry of Finance as well as leadership and staff of the Ministry of Social Welfare and
Youth (among others), encompassing: those from the previous Government, when the
DPL was designed and implemented, those who have been recently appointed/recruited
under the new Government, and those who worked under both Governments.

3.45 On the health side, respondents were mixed in assessing the counterfactual of the
DPL, even within the Bank’s team. This is in large part because the HSMP, with its
considerable and highly appreciated technical assistance on health financing and hospital
reform, was ongoing, in parallel with the DPL preparation and implementation. Many
expressed the view that the health financing legislation would have been passed even
without the DPL, given the quality of the technical work, involvement of key
stakeholders in its vetting and strong Government commitment (Ministries of Health and
Finance, both) to its passage, all supported and nurtured under HSMP. The DPL
probably did provide political and financial leverage that may have further strengthened
high-level, Government-wide commitment to the passage of the legislation. Technical
exchanges and reviews of the legislation under the HSMP, documented in the series of
HSMP and DPL Aide-memoires, finally did culminate in its passage. A comparison of
the March 2010 draft of the health insurance law and the final version of the law as
approved by Parliament (February 2011) reveals that they are virtually identical
substantively, an indication that the technical work had been supported and refined by the
HSMP before the DPL picked it up as a policy area.

D. Other Ratings

3.46 The project’s Outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.47 The project’s
objectives are highly relevant to Albania’s National Strategy for Development and

47
   There is a marked difference between this PPAR’s rating of the project’s outcome and IEG’s
unsatisfactory rating of the project’s outcome based on its 2013 desk review of the Region’s
Implementation Completion and Results Report. This PPAR upgraded IEG’s initial ratings of: (i) design
from modest to substantial because the underlying logic and the good choice of instrument became more
evident during the course of the field work, especially for social assistance, and the choice of outcome
indicators and targets, while overly ambitious, was more of an M&E design issue, not reason enough for a
modest rating; and (ii) efficacy of the first (social assistance) objective from modest to substantial because
                                                    51


Integration 2014-2020, which expresses Government’s commitment to increasing the
equity and efficiency of the social assistance scheme and to ensuring equitable access to
health services and improved financial efficiency. These commitments are also
emphasized in the Bank’s CPS for Albania (FY11-FY14). The objectives are also highly
relevant to current country conditions, as expressed by a range of actors and stakeholders
interviewed by IEG, and directly observed by IEG. Project design is substantially
relevant with a clear causal chain containing technical and strategic support to the
objectives, and an appropriate choice of the DPL instrument, complementing (i) the
technical support of the Bank’s analytic work, technical assistance, and policy dialogue;
and (ii) the health and social assistance investment operations designed to support reform
implementation.

3.47 The objective to support policy changes to improve the effectiveness of social
safety nets was substantially achieved with the passage and ongoing implementation of
well-designed, relevant legislation. Full achievement of the outcome indicators is likely,
but delayed, since the start-up of the social assistance investment operation was delayed
with the transition in Government. The objective to support policy changes to enhance
the efficiency and equity of health spending was modestly achieved. While all prior
actions were undertaken, the outcomes expected from these prior actions, supported in
parallel by the now closed HSMP operation, were not achieved. Health insurance
coverage has not been extended to social assistance beneficiaries, the cost of a defined
package of services is not used as a criterion for financial transfers; hospital budgets are
compiled on the basis of historical budgets and not on the basis of services delivered or
performance; and the majority of hospital financing is channeled through the Treasury,
not HII. The objective of enhancing transparency and accountability of selected social
programs and services was substantially achieved with the passage of social assistance
and health financing legislation mandating the use of systematic formulas to allocate
resources and improvements to program administration.

3.48 Risk to Development Outcome is Moderate overall. Financial risk is
significant. The financial impact of the social assistance reforms has not yet been fully
assessed. It is expected that reforms to NE eligibility criteria, resource allocation, and
their more rigorous application will result in better targeting of the benefits to those most
deserving (the poor). It is also anticipated that this rigor will eliminate the ineligible
(richer) families from the program. The net effect of this program is likely to result in
more efficiency, but it may end up being more costly, if more people enter than are
eliminated. The new legislation also expands benefits to different categories of orphans
and to victims of domestic violence. Respondents were emphatic that support to these
previously neglected categories of eligible people is well justified and long overdue. But
the addition of these people will incur additional costs to the program. The indexation of
disability benefits to inflation is expected to contribute to controlling the rapid growth in
these benefits (slower than the previous indexation to minimum wage increases). But the

of continued, notable progress in social assistance reform implementation and the increased likelihood of
achieving related outcome targets, albeit with delays. Both the 2013 desk review and this PPAR rate
efficacy of the second (health) objective modest, but the 2013 exercise rates two sub-objectives, whereas
the PPAR provides one rating for the health objective.
                                            52


more substantial savings should occur through a second phase of disability reform, aimed
at the review and more rigorous application of disability eligibility criteria and the
elimination of current beneficiaries who do not meet these criteria. Clearly, this is a more
challenging, politically complex endeavor. The decision not to implement the school
bonus immediately under the SAMP was linked to concerns about its affordability, as
well as to concerns about Government’s implementation capacity. If it is undertaken in a
second-phase reform, the fiscal implications of this decision will need to be revisited.
Even though it was provided for under the health financing legislation, the extension of
health insurance benefits has not yet been extended to NE beneficiaries because of fiscal
concerns.

3.49 Institutional risk is moderate. The SAMP is well designed and well placed to
strengthen institutional capacity to implement social assistance reforms. The leadership
of the MoSW&Y and the management and staffing of the social assistance program, at
the central and regional levels, appears for the most part to be well-qualified and
committed. This includes the continuity of experienced, key managers and staff who are
capable and have a good knowledge and institutional memory of program efforts and
technical work, as well as newly recruited managers and staff with strong qualifications.
There are still problems of staff quality, in some cases, brought to IEG’s attention in the
field. Under the SAMP, implementation support will include: secondary legislation,
systems building, training, monitoring and evaluation and learning. All of these should
ensure institutional capacity for social assistance. The decision to postpone the
implementation of the school bonus reform due to capacity constraints was a sound one.

3.50 There are more concerns about the institutional risk on the health front. The HII
is establishing a department and capacity to finance hospitals based on services delivered
and performance, which will take considerable time and effort and require technical
support. Efficiently-run, performance-based hospitals will depend on the implementation
of hospital reforms (autonomy, rationalization), which has thus far been lagging. Better
coordination and collaboration between MoH and HII will be critical to this end. A
follow-on Bank operation and other development partner support are expected to address
these challenges.

3.51 Political risk is moderate. The new socialist Government is very supportive of all
of the reforms supported under the DPL, which mesh well with its electoral platform and
medium-term strategy. A number of informants expected there would be some pushback
from local government officials, whose decision-making authority on the award of social
assistance has been reassigned to the local social assistance offices. The Government’s
new vision of universal health coverage financed by the state budget (taxes) vs. health
insurance does not undermine the (still unattained) objective of extending health
insurance (free health coverage) to the poor. But it may well change how it is
approached. The main reason policy-makers are hesitant to embrace this fully is linked
to issues of affordability.

3.52 Bank Performance is Moderately Satisfactory overall. Quality at entry is
Moderately Satisfactory. The quality of the DPL preparation and design is grounded in
the high quality of the analytic work and sector dialogue of the Bank. A trust-funded
technical assistance program supported robust technical work to ensure the technical
                                                 53


quality of the social assistance policies and reforms. And rigorous, respectful dialogue
(through a series of consultations, workshops, and technical discussions) enhanced the
understanding of Government of the key issues undermining their social assistance
efficacy and efficiency and engaged them in the reform process. Respondents
consistently expressed their appreciation of the inclusion in this technical work of both
the relevant experience in other countries in Europe and the rest of the world and the
advice that was specific and responsive to Albania’s particular context. The Bank’s work
on the structural, financial and macro-economic aspects was also sound. Its assessment
of the macroeconomic situation and fiscal stability was grounded in the knowledge
available at the time of an unfolding fiscal crisis, although some note that targets and
projections were optimistic in light of IMF projections made in 2010 (para. 3.20). Its
advice to Government on maintaining fiscal stabilization during the crisis was sound.

3.53 The Bank’s inputs and processes were intensive and supportive, provided over a
series of five to six DPL-specific missions during a two-year period between 2009 and
2011, over and above a series of HSMP missions reviewing and discussing revisions to
the health legislation and HSMP technical assistance. The risk assessment was sound,
raising relevant macroeconomic, political, technical and social risks, all with reasonable
mitigation measures. The only risk that came to pass was the macroeconomic one (paras.
3.19-3.25). The health sector’s delay in implementing financing reforms and the
affordability of reforms were not raised as risks, nor was the absence of a follow-on
health investment raised as a risk to successful reform implementation. Both the quality
and the continuity of the team and dialogue were consistently raised as strong features of
the Bank’s performance.48 An important shortcoming of the Bank’s quality at entry was
the choice of DPL outcome indicators, which were too ambitious and inappropriate for
measuring achievement of the DPL objectives and more closely related to the SAMP.

3.54 Quality of Supervision is Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank was well focused
on the relevance and development impact of the reforms. It carried out two supervision
missions during the one-year implementation period of the operation, providing sufficient
resources for tracking performance. Its role in ensuring adequate transition arrangements
was pivotal tightly linking the passage of reforms under the DPL to implementation of
those reforms, respectfully, under the HSMP and the SAMP. One shortcoming was a
moderate lack of candor and quality in reporting on the achievements of the project. This
was likely linked to the above-cited problem of the inappropriate, overly ambitious
outcome indicators established for this DPL.

3.55 Borrower Performance is Moderately Satisfactory overall. Government
performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The Ministry of Finance and the Prime
Minister were committed to the project and oversaw the design of the reforms and their
passage in Parliament. And they were strongly supportive of the transition arrangements
assured through the SAMP and HSMP. The Government has appointed capable people

48
   The first TTL became the Sector Manager in that Unit and was succeeded by a qualified member of the
team who had been involved in the technical work and dialogue. The Tirana-based team member, who was
also the health TTL, provided continuity from the outset and later assumed responsibility as TTL. Yet
another team member on the DPL became the TTL for the SAMP, ensuring seamless support in the
implementation of social assistance reforms.
                                            54


to lead and implement social assistance reform. Frequent changes in the health Minister
position and related changes to MoH staffing that were more responsive to politics than
to needed skills and capacity undermined the ability of the Ministry to implement reforms
expeditiously. Two moderate shortcomings were: (a) failure to take recommended
measures to maintain fiscal stability under the DPL; and (b) failure to release the LSMS
2012 data in a timely fashion, which would have facilitated the tracking of some of the
outcome indicators.

3.56 Performance of the Implementing Agencies is Moderately Satisfactory. The
Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth was involved, informed and motivated to prepare
the legislation and, under the follow-on SAMP, poised for its successful implementation.
The MoH collaborated with the HSMP-financed technical assistance in the preparation of
the health finance legislation. But follow-through in its implementation has been lacking.

3.57 Monitoring and Evaluation was Modest. Two sets of outcome indicators
established for the DPL were, for the most part, too ambitious for the short timeframe and
(some) difficult to measure due to the infrequency of LSMS exercises (para 3.15).
Because the outcome indicators set for the DPL were more dependent upon the follow-on
implementation assistance under the SAMP, and because of the inadequate frequency of
LSMS exercises (and continued unavailability of the LSMS 2012 results), there was very
limited M&E work undertaken during the short implementation period of the DPL (para
3.26).

4. Lessons
4.1    This combined evaluation of the Health Systems Modernization Project and the
Social Sector Development Policy Loan has revealed a number of cross-cutting lessons.
Both projects: were grounded in analytic work and technical assistance; supported far-
reaching reforms; sought to exploit synergies across various forms of Bank support and
lending instruments; and faced a range of challenges inherent in reform implementation.

4.2      A number of common lessons emanating from these two projects are presented
below. These lessons become even more interesting when juxtaposed against the lessons
distilled from two relevant IEG thematic reviews of, respectively: (a) the effectiveness of
the World Bank’s analytic work and technical assistance (Box 4.1.); and (b) the
effectiveness of the World Bank’s support to health, nutrition and population sectors,
with a focus on health reform (Box 4.2.). Each of these reviews was world-wide in scope
and provides insight and perspective to experience gleaned from the two Albania projects
that are the subject of this review.
                                                    55


Box 4.1. Cross-Regional Factors Contributing to the Effectiveness of the World Bank’s
Analytic Work and Technical Assistance
   When Government capacity was lower, analytic work and technical assistance were less
    effective.
   Government receptivity also influenced effectiveness of analytic work.
   Analytic work and technical assistance products of lower technical quality were less
    effective.
   Analytic work of higher quality costs more.
   Close collaboration with clients, from the initiation of the task through the formulation of
    recommendations, was important for analytic work and technical assistance to be influential.
   Where partnership with clients made a difference, a variety of approaches was equally
    effective, depending on country conditions. Where Government capacity was limited,
    partnering in the production of narrowly focused tasks was more effective than partnering on
    more broadly scoped tasks.
   Whether the client specifically requested the analytic work and technical assistance did not
    matter for effectiveness, although client buy-in was still important.
   Sustained follow-up beyond one-off discussion was important for analytic work and technical
    assistance effectiveness.
   The scope of discussion for effective analytic work and technical assistance varied,
    depending on the country context and the topic of the analysis.
   Translation is important to client countries.
Source: “Using Knowledge to Improve Development Effectiveness: An Evaluation of World Bank Economic and
Sector Work and Technical Assistance 2000-2006,” World Bank, Independent Evaluation Group, 2008.


4.3     The high quality of the Bank’s analytic work and technical assistance is
necessary but not sufficient for their effectiveness. Also important are the involvement
and buy-in of the Government and other key stakeholders and the strategic packaging
of this support with other Bank products and services. Both the Health Sector Policy
Note (2006) and the Social Assistance Policy Note (2010) were carried out with the
involvement of key Government policymakers and implementers, in consultation with
other partners, from the design to dissemination. Their purpose was to generate an
evidence base, which would: enhance understanding of Government and other
stakeholders of sector performance and issues; inform options for policymaking, reform
and prioritization of interventions; and generate widespread commitment to policy reform
and implementation. They involved rigorous, respectful dialogue, through a series of
consultations, workshops and technical discussions. These two pieces of analytic work
were highly successful in informing and influencing reform. They were spontaneously
cited by a wide range of informants (within and beyond Government) as having
contributed greatly to the evidence base and to the agenda for reform; and they continue
to be the point of reference for documenting and shaping the reform agenda.
                                                       56


Box 4.2. Cross-Regional Lessons on Health Reform
   Reform based on careful prior analytic work holds a greater chance of success, but analytic work does
    not ensure success.
   The failure to assess fully the political economy of reform and to prepare a proactive plan to address it
    can considerably diminish prospects for success. Political risks, the interest of key stakeholders, and
    the risk of complexity – issues the evaluation studies found to be critical – are often neglected in risk
    analysis in design documents for health reform projects.
   The sequencing of reforms can improve political feasibility, reduce complexity, ensure that adequate
    capacity is in place, and facilitate learning. When implementation is flagging, the Bank can help
    preserve reform momentum with complementary programmatic lending through the Ministry of
    Finance, as it did in Peru and the Kyrgyz Republic.
   M&E are critical in health reform projects – to demonstrate the impact of pilot reforms, to garner
    political support, but also because many reforms cannot work without a well-functioning MIS.
Source: “Improving Effectiveness and Outcomes for the Poor in Health, Nutrition and Population: An Evaluation of
World Bank Group Support since 1997,” World Bank, Independent Evaluation Group, 2009.


4.4      The large package of technical assistance provided under the health project was of
high quality (as noted by a broad range of respondents, and verified by IEG’s own review
of the technical assistance reports). The Bank’s team was relentless in its effort to ensure
the uptake of this assistance. Aide-memoires are full of reminders insisting that
Government assign counterparts to work with technical assistants and that the Technical
Working Groups become fully staffed and functional in order to contribute to, as well as
vet, this work.

4.5     One-tranche DPLs can be transformative and support reform momentum if (i)
they build on solid analytic work; (ii) they can effectively leverage critical policy
change (e.g. legislation) that may not gain sufficient traction through sector dialogue
alone; and (iii) they are supported by continuity in the sector policy dialogue and
lending after the DPL closes. The health sector and social assistance supports provided
by the Bank were each made up of three complementary areas of support. First, as noted
above, the undertaking of sound analytic work generated an enhanced evidence base for
the country, provided relevant perspective on other countries’ experiences, engaged
Government in meaningful dialogue, enhanced their understanding of social sector
challenges, and helped inform the establishment of policies priorities. Second, the one-
tranche DPL provided the leverage for the passage of essential legislation, based on the
analytic work that was critical in the design and launch of policy reform. Third, health
and social assistance investment operations provided financial and technical support for
reform implementation. All three were complementary and at the same time supportive
of common objectives. A shortcoming on the health front was the absence of an
investment operation after the DPL’s closing to provide reform implementation support.

4.6     When the new Socialist Government took power in 2013, the Bank’s health and
social assistance teams prepared policy briefs drawing on the analytic work and technical
assistance provided under the projects to brief the new leaders and implementers on the
evidence and reform agenda. The health team was especially devoted to making
available to the new Government the full range of technical assistants’ reports, whose
uptake by the previous Government was somewhat modest. Both new Ministers reported
to IEG that the Bank’s proactivity and availability in this regard helped them to become
                                             57


well briefed on critical aspects of their newly acquired portfolios; and both commented
on the quality and rigor of the analytic work and technical assistance and its relevance to
the achievement of their goals. This technical assistance is thus well poised to inform
and support the new Government in its reform process.

4.7     Political economy is critical to factor into reform design and risk management.
Neglect of some aspects of political economy is likely to have undermined prospects for
the full and successful implementation of health reforms under the HSMP. Looking
back, there were certain groups that might have been more effectively considered and
involved for certain reforms. Efforts to improve the access, quality and affordability of
primary health care services and a more efficient use of hospital services would have
been better undertaken with the full involvement of civil society, including journalists,
and consumers, whose perspectives and behaviors are critical to the success of these
reforms. The results of the study of consumers’ perspectives on health services, cited in
this report (Box 2.2.), provide great insight on impediments to service quality and
affordability that were not sufficiently incorporated into the reform. Uncertainties and
tensions about the relative roles, responsibilities and mutual accountabilities of MoH and
HII are also likely to have undermined the reform process. Vetting the implications of
the reform process within and between these institutions may have eased tensions and
clarified their partnership and complementarities, at all levels of the system, and set an
agenda for resolving issues of overlap in mandate.

4.8     Greater involvement of two categories of health professionals may also have been
warranted. Several respondents pointed out that the faculty of medicine, practicing at
Tirana Tertiary Hospital, also had important influence on the success of reforms,
especially with regard to service quality and hospital and service provider accountability.
Key respondents noted that the faculty of medicine was neither adequately involved nor
was it held accountable for reform implementation; and some have noted that the
faculty’s indifference to key reforms was a factor in their failure. Given their strong
presence and key potential role in quality assurance, the fuller involvement of nurses –
both in sector dialogue and in reform design and implementation – is also likely to have
enhanced prospects for reform success.

4.9      The sequencing of reforms under the Social Assistance DPL and its follow-on
implementation support is likely to have mitigated potential implementation setbacks
associated with political feasibility, capacity and fiscal constraints. The reforms to the
NE social welfare program were put in a first phase, as there was strong political support
for improving the effectiveness of this program, targeted to the poor. Efforts to contain
the growth in disability benefits were deemed to be more politically contentious and thus
were programmed in a second phase of support under SAMP. For reasons of limited
capacity and fiscal constraints, both the Bank and the Government agreed to postpone
into a later phase the linking of welfare benefits to bonuses for school attendance and
child immunizations.

4.10 The design and implementation of pilots to test and fine-tune reforms and the
establishment of well-functioning MIS and M&E systems are critical to health and
social assistance reform, as they can accommodate learning, provide evidence of the
feasibility and benefits of such reform and garner political support. HSMP failed to
                                                      58


design, launch, implement and evaluate the pilots envisaged to test: (i) hospital autonomy
models;49 and (ii) the hospital rationalization plan recommendation to consolidate one
regional hospital and one or more district hospitals under one administrative unit.50 Such
pilots would have demonstrated the feasibility and benefits of these approaches and
informed their refinement and possible scale-up through an evidence-based learning
process. Well-documented evidence is likely to have been instrumental in alleviating
political pressures to maintain the status quo. Indeed, the failure to fully evaluate and
actively showcase the successes of the Durres Hospital pilot (under implementation, with
USAID and other assistance, for a decade) was a missed opportunity to make a
compelling case – both technically and politically – to scale up this model of hospital
autonomy. The failure to implement these pilots undermined the achievement of the
objective to improve hospital governance and management. Likewise, the failure to
establish a well-functioning MIS for tracking overall sector performance also likely
undermined the implementation and tracking of sector reform.

4.11 Thanks to the follow-on support of the SAMP, the implementation of the social
assistance law is well on track, with a well-designed pilot in the three most populous
regions currently underway, along with the establishment and launch of a MIS – a
registry of all social assistance beneficiaries and a viable M&E system. This bodes well
for successful reform.




49
  The piloting of reforms of hospital management and governance structures was included in the original
project design (Box 2.1, Component C (iii)), but it was not implemented (para. 2.55).
50
  The testing of the hospital rationalization strategy on a pilot basis in two selected districts was added to
Component C. as a part of the second (September 2011) restructuring (Annex E, Table E-1), but it was not
implemented (para. 2.54).
                                                   59


References
Chee, Grace and Joanne Jeffers. 2011. “The Albania Health Sector Governance Study, Technical Brief.”
        Bethesda, MD. Enabling Equitable Health Reform Project in Albania. Abt Associates Inc. for
        USAID.
Conseil Sante. 2011. “Technical Assistance for Health Technology Assessment in Albania, Project ID No
         P082814, Grant No TF55804.” Final Report.
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania. 2013. “National Strategy for Development and Integration
        (2014-2020).” Draft. Tirana.
Euro Health Group. 2012. “Tools to Implement Hospital Rationalization Plan.” Final Report. Health
        System Modernization Project, Project No. 4154.
European Commission. 2013. “Albania 2013 Progress Report, Accompanying the Document
        Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council: Enlargement
        Strategy and Main Challenges (2013-2014).” Brussels.
German Technical Cooperation (GTZ). 2010. “Social Health Protection in Albania: Challenges and
       Opportunities, Reader based on the contributions to the joint ISKSH-GTZ Conference on Social
       Health Protection in Albania Challenges and Opportunities September 28th and 29th, 2009, in
       Tirana.”
Haazen S., Dominic. No date. “Albania Healthcare Financing Options (Powerpoint Presentation).”
Health Insurance Institute. 2013. “Health Insurance Fund: Annual Report 2012.” Tirana.
_____. No date. “Health Insurance in Albania.” Tirana.
_____. No date. “Chapter 2: GP and Family Physician Workload and Remuneration (Capitation Formula).”
        Tirana.
Health Insurance Institute, German Technical Cooperation. 2010. “Social Health Protection in Albania:
         Challenges and Opportunities.”51 Tirana/ Eschborn.
IDRA Research and Consulting. 2013. “Health Care System in Albania: A Formative Research with
       Consumers to Increase Non-State Actors Engagement in Health System Governance.” Bethesda,
       MD. Enabling Equitable Health Reform Project in Albania, Abt. Associates Inc.
IEG (Independent Evaluation Group). 2008. “Using Knowledge to Improve Development Effectiveness:
        An Evaluation of World Bank Economic and Sector Work and Technical Assistance, 2000-2006.”
_____. 2009. “Improving Effectiveness and Outcomes for the Poor in Health, Nutrition, and Population:
        An Evaluation of World Bank Group Support since 1997.” IEG, World Bank, Washington, DC.
_____. 2012. “The World Bank Group’s Response to the Global Economic Crisis, Phase II.” IEG, World
        Bank, Washington, DC.
IMF (International Monetary Fund). 2010. “ Albania: 2010 Article IV Consultation – Staff Report; Staff
        Statement; Public Information on the Executive Board Discussion; and Statement by the
        Executive Director for Albania.” Report No. 10/205. July.
Kenny, Steve. 2008. “Health Facility Rationalization Plan for Albania.”
_____. 2012. “Republic of Albania, Ministry of Health and Health Insurance Institute, Reforming Hospital
        Payment in Albania, Report 3, Recommendations and Strategies.”
_____. 2013a. “Package of Hospital Services in Albania - Technical Report.” Bethesda, MD. Enabling
        Equitable Health Reforms Project in Albania. Abt Associates Inc. for USAID.


51
  Reader based on the contributions to the joint ISKSH-GTZ Conference on Social Health Protection in
Albania Challenges and Opportunities September 28th and 29th, 2009 in Tirana
                                                     60

_____. 2013b. “Hospital Funding in Albania – Technical Report.” Bethesda, MD. Enabling Equitable
        Health Reforms Project in Albania. Abt Associates Inc. for USAID. .
Korjenek, Patrice. 2009. “Developing Hospital Performance Analysis Capacity: Inception Report for the
        HII in Albania.”
Ministry of Health with the support of Cheryl Cashin and the M&E Core Working Group. 2010. “Vision,
         Framework and Health System Performance Outcome Indicators for Monitoring Health Sector
         Policies, Programs, and Institutions in Albania.” Draft.
Ministry of Health. 2008. “National Plan on Implementation of the Stabilization Association Agreement52
         (2008-2014): Health Sector Commitments.”53 Tirana.54
Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. 2013a. “Software Design and User Training on
         the Establishment of a State Database for Economic Aid: Preliminary Report (Version 1).”55
         Tirana.
_____. 2013b. “Software Design and User Training on the Establishment of a State Database for Economic
        Aid: Annex 1: Planned Solution (Version 1).”56 Tirana.
Mrazek, Monique, and Andreas Seiter. 2005. “Review of the Pharmaceutical Sector in Albania.”
Pande, A, Leive A., Smitz M, Eozenou P., and E. Ozcelik. 2013. “Macro Fiscal Context and Health
        Financing Fact Sheet.” World Bank, Washington, DC.
Republic of Albania. Law No. 10107 “On Health Care in the Republic of Albania.” dated 30.03.2009.
Republic of Albania. Law No. 10383 “On Compulsory Health Care Insurance in the Republic of Albania.”
        dated 24.02.2011.
Schneider, Markus, Gunter Bruckner, and Flora Hobdari. 2010. “Support to the Albanian National Health
        Account.” Final Report. Tirana, Augsburg.
Shestani Shala, Irena. 2013. “Performance Assessment of Primary Health Care in the City of Shkodra
         (PowerPoint Presentation).” Tirana.
UNICEF, Albania, Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Urban Research Institute and
      National Center for Social Studies. 2012. “Effective Use of Economic Aid to Improve Health and
      Nutrition Status of Children in Poor Families: Report on Findings and Recommendations from
      Focus Group Discussions.” Tirana.
USAID and Ministry of Health. 2008. “Basic Package of Services in Primary Health Care.”
World Bank. No date. “Detailed Information on Development of Scoring Formula and the Simulated
       Impacts on Poverty and Inequality.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2006a. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 10.7 Million
        (US$15.4 Million Equivalent) to Albania for a Health System Modernization Project.” Report No
        33415-AL. Washington, DC.
_____. 2006b. “Albania Health Sector Note.” Report No. 32612-AL, Washington, DC.
_____. 2010a. “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development International Development
        Association and International Finance Corporation Country Partnership Strategy for Albania for
        the Period FY11-FY14.” Washington, DC.



52
     http://ec.europa.eu/enlargement/policy/glossary/terms/saa_en.htm
53
     Available only in Albanian
54
     The latest available draft
55
     Available only in Albanian
56
     Available only Albanian
                                                  61


_____. 2010b. “Albania Social Assistance Policy Note: Key Challenges and Opportunities.” Human
        Development Sector Unit, South East Europe Country Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region.
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2010c. “Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of the Health System
        Modernization Project Credit No. 4154-AL March 14, 2006 to the Republic of Albania.”
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2011a. “Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Health System Modernization
        Project Credit Number 4154 ALB March 14, 2006 to the Republic of Albania.” Report No 65113
        v1. Washington, D.C.
_____. 2011b. “Program Document for a Proposed Loan in the Amount of EURO 18.1 Million (USD 25
        Million Equivalent) to Albania for a Social Sector Reform DPL.” Report No 60340-AL,
        Washington, DC.
_____. 2012a. “Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA-41540 TF-55804) on a Credit in the
        Amount of SDR 10.7 Million (US$15.4 Million Equivalent) to Albania for a Health System
        Modernization Project.” Report No ICR2479. Washington, DC.
_____. 2012b. “Implementation Completion and Results Report (IBRD-80600) on a Loan in the Amount of
        EUR 18.1 Million (US$25 Million Equivalent) to Albania for a Social Sector Reform
        Development Policy Loan.” Report No ICR00002293. Washington, DC.
_____. 2012c. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of EURO 38 Million (US$
        50 Million Equivalent) to Albania for the Social Assistance Modernization Project.” Report No
        66666-AL. Washington, DC.
_____. 2012d. “Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Health System Modernization
        Project Loan March 14, 2006 to the Republic of Albania.” Report No 67009 v1. Washington,
        D.C.
_____. 2013a. “Policy Note: Albania Health.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2013b. “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
        Corporation Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for Albania for the Period FY11-
        FY14.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2013c. “Unified Scoring Formula- Background and Calculation Example for Illustration Purposes
        For the MIS development firm.” Washington, DC.
_____. 2013d. “Policy Brief: Albania Improving Poverty Monitoring and Social Assistance.” Washington,
        DC.
_____.2014. “Albania Public Finance Review, Part II: Improving the Efficiency and Quality of Public
        Spending.” Report No. 820-AL. Washington, DC.
World Health Organization and World Bank. 2006. “Pharmaceutical Expenditure Management in Albania,
       Report of a Joint WHO/WB Mission.”
                                              63


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet for Social Sector Reform DPL
Project (P116937)
SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM DPL (P116937) PROJECT
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                           Appraisal              Actual or              Actual as % of
                           estimate            current estimate         appraisal estimate
Loan amount                 24.48                   25.01                    102.16

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements

                                                                            FY12
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                                   24.48
Actual (US$M)                                                               25.01
Actual as % of appraisal                                                    102.16
Date of final disbursement: 09/15/2011

Project Dates

                                                    Original                   Actual
Initiating memorandum                              08/13/2009                07/07/2010
Negotiations                                       03/15/2011                03/21/2011
Board approval                                     01/07/2010                04/28/2011
Signing                                            06/17/2011                06/21/2011
Effectiveness                                      08/24/2011                08/25/2011
Closing date                                       04/30/2012                04/30/2012

Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                   US$ Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
Lending                                                           travel and consultants costs)
                FY09                                                        7,357.05
                FY10                           27.27                      188,217.71
                FY11                           42.47                      197,458.36
                           Total:                                         393,033.12
Supervision/ICR
                FY12                           7.28                        35,557.86
                FY13                           1.26                         4,617.65
                           Total:                                          40,175.51
ANNEX A                                    64


Task Team Members
                                                                           Responsibility/
Names                     Title                                  Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Melis U. Guven            Senior Social Protection Economist AFTSE       Task Team Leader
Daniel Dulitzky           Sector Manager                        ECSH1    Task Team Leader
                                                                         Sector Manager
Lorena Kostallari         Senior Operation Officer              ECSH1    Task Team Leader
Erjon Luci                Economist                             ECSP2    Economist
Elda Hafizi               Program Assistant                     ECCAL    Program Assistant
Armin Fidler              Senior Advisor                        HDNHE Technical Specialist
Enkelejda Karaj           Program Assistant                     ECCAL    Program Assistant
Emil Tesliuc Economist    Senior Economist                      ECSH3
Borko Handjinski          Country Economist                     ECSP2    Economist
Manuel Salazar            Senior Social Protection Specialist   AFTSP    Technical Specialist
Jesko Hentschel           Sector Director, SASHD                SASHD    Sector Manager
Margaret Png              Lead Counsel                          LEGEM    Legal Specialist
Katerina Timina           Program Assistant                     ECSH4    Program Assistant
Caterina Ruggeri Laderchi Senior Economist                      ECSP3    Economist
Lewis Hawke               Sr. Financial Management              ECSO3    Financial Specialist
                          Specialist
Zurab Sajaia              Economist                             DECCT    Economist
Ramya Sundaram            Senior Economist                      ECSH4    Economist
Gordon Betcherman         Consultant                            DECWD Consultant
Reink Prins               Consultant                                     Consultant
Ilene Zeitzer             Consultant                                     Consultant
Dan Finn                  Consultant                            MNSHD Consultant
Sarojini Hirshleifer      Consultant                                     Consultant
Gordon Betcherman         Consultant                            DECWD Consultant
Natsuko Kiso Nozaki       Consultant                                     Consultant
Alexandru Cojocaru        Consultant                            ECSP3    Consultant
Ida Muhoho                Consultant                            ECSO3    Consultant
Florian Tomini            Consultant                                     Consultant
Supervision/ICR
Melis U. Guven            Senior Social Protection Economist AFTSE       Task Team Leader
                                        65                      ANNEX A


                                                         Responsibility/
Names               Title                       Unit
                                                            Specialty
Daniel Dulitzky     Sector Manager             ECSH1   Task Team Leader
                                                       Sector Manager
Lorena Kostallari   Senior Operation Officer   ECSH1   Task Team Leader
Irina A. Nikolic    Health Specialist          HDNHE ICR Author/ ICR
                                                     Task Team Leader
                                                 66


Annex B. Basic Data Sheet for Health System
Modernization Project (P082814)
HEALTH SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT (P082814)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
                                                estimate        current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              19.11               19.00                  99.40
Loan amount                                       15.40              14.50                  97.70
Cofinancing                                       1.61               1.61                  100.00
Cancellation                                      0.00               1.10                   0.00


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                     FY07        FY08       FY09     FY10     FY11      FY12        FY13
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                1.61     6.27      10.86    13.89    15.40     15.40       15.40
Actual (US$M)                            0.50     1.04      3.31     6.36     10.32     12.22       14.50
Actual as % of appraisal             31.05        16.58     30.47    45.78    67.01     79.35       94.15
Date of final disbursement: 10/15/2012


Project Dates
                                                       Original                         Actual
Initiating memorandum                                 04/05/2004                      02/24/2005
Negotiations                                          02/06/2006                      02/06/2006
Board approval                                        04/04/2005                      03/14/2006
Signing                                               03/20/2005                      04/22/2006
Effectiveness                                         09/07/2006                      09/07/2006
Closing date                                          09/30/2010                      06/30/2012


Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                          US$ Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
Lending                                                                  travel and consultants costs)
                FY04                              73.78                            318,004.15
                FY05                              30.32                            122,962.21
                FY06                              3.87                             131,864.33
                           Total:                137.97                            572,870.69
                                        67                                 ANNEX B


Supervision/ICR
              FY06                  1.35                           10,370.62
              FY07                  25.39                          77,512.16
              FY08                  30.69                          118,497.31
              FY09                  35.09                          125,930.46
              FY10                  26.68                          58,067.94
              FY11                  30.94                          106,702.50
              FY12                  21.74                          62,552.52
              FY13                  13.26                          36,209.68
                       Total:      185.14                          598,843.19


Mission Data
Names                           Title                                            Unit
Lending
Jan Bultman                     Lead Health Specialist                         ECSHD
Olav Rex Christensen            Senior Public Finance Specialist               HDNED
Dominic S. Haazen               Lead Health Policy Specialist                  AFTHW
Monika Huppi                    Manager                                        IEGPS
Lorena Kostallari               Senior Operations Officer                      ECSH1
Carmen F. Laurente              Senior Program Assistant                       ECSHD
Florian Tomini                  Consultant                                     ECSHD
Anna L Wielogorska              Senior Procurement Specialist                  EASRP
Supervision/ICR
Dominic S. Haazen               Lead Health Policy Specialist                  AFTHW
Caryn Bredenkamp                Economist (Health)                             HDNHE
Jan Bultman                     Lead Health Specialist                         ECSHD
Nicholay Chistyakov             Senior Finance Officer                         CTRLN
Olav Rex Christensen            Senior Public Finance Specialist               HDNED
Elona Gjika                     Financial Management Specialist                ECSOQ
Elda Hafizi                     Program Assistant                              ECCAL
Lorena Kostallari               Senior Operations Officer                      ECSH1
Carmen F. Laurente              Senior Program Assistant                       ECSHD
Belita Manka                    Counsel                                        LEGOP
Jasna Mestnik                   Finance Analyst                                CTRLA
ANNEX B                            68


Names                           Title                             Unit
Karina Mostipan                 Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSO2
Wezi Marianne Msisha            Health Specialist               ECSH1
Imelda Mueller                  Operations Analyst              ECSH2
Benedicta T. Oliveros-Miranda   Procurement Analyst             ECSO2
Kirsten Burghardt Propst        Senior Counsel                  LEGLE
Pia Helene Schneider            Lead Evaluation Officer         IEGPS
Katerina Timina                 Program Assistant               ECSHD
                                           69


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Government of Albania

Ministry of Finance
 Erion Luci, Deputy Minister of Finance (since September 2013)

Health Sector

Ministry of Health
       Central Level
 HE Ilir Beqaj, Minister of Health (since September 2013)
   Milva Ekonomi, Deputy Minister of Health (since September 2013)
   Saimir Kadiu, Director of Economic and Financial Planning Department and HSMP
    Project Director
   Petro Mersini, Head of Hospital Care Department
   Gazmend Betja, Director of Public Health Department
   Erol Como, Head of Primary Health Care Sector
       Region of Durres
   Kristo Huta, Director, Directorate of Primary Health Care
       Region of Elbasan
   Ilda Mano, Technical Deputy Director, Directorate of Primary Health Care
       District of Shkodra
   Delegation from Shkodra Health District, presenting their analysis of services
    performance at the November 20, 2013 Conference on Quality, held in Tirana and
    sponsored by the National Center of Quality, Safety, and Accreditation of Health
    Institutions

Health Insurance Institute
       Central Level
 Astrit Beci, General Director (since September 2013)
   Albana Adhami, Medical Adviser, National Health Insurance Fund
   Laureta Mano, Director of Legal Department, National Health Insurance Fund
   Rudina Mazniku, Director of Hospital Care, National Health Insurance Fund
   Aleksander Haxhi, Head of Policy Development Sector, Hospital Department, National
    Health Insurance Fund
ANNEX C                                    70


   Naun Sinani, Head of Sector, Hospital Service Department, National Health Insurance
    Fund
   Miranda Bleta, Head of IT Infrastructure and Network Administration, National Health
    Insurance Fund
        Region of Durres
   Ilda Ramadani, Deputy Director, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance
       Region of Elbasan
   Kastriot Belshi, Director, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance
   Merita Brica, Deputy Director, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance
   Eduart Kepaci, Head of IT/Statistics Sector, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance
   Dallendyshe Hoda, PHC Sector Economist, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance
   Altin Kernuti, Head of Hospital Sector, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance
   Lavdie Shqarri, Specialist Doctor, Regional Directorate of Health Insurance

National Center of Quality, Safety and Accreditation of Health Institutions
 Isuf Kalo, Director, National Centre of Quality, Safety and Accreditation of Health
   Institutions (fonder and incumbent since 2005)


Public Health Facilities
       Tirana
   Arben Ura, Chief of Investment Department, Tirana University Hospital Center
   Artenca Collaku, Director, Primary Health Care Center no. 4 (Tirana)
   Alfred Lulo, Director, Primary Health Care Center no. 8 (Tirana)
       Durres Region
   Tauland Baku, Director, Durres Regional Hospital
   Attending Physician, Primary Health Care Center attached to Regional Office of Ministry
    of Health

Institute of Public Health
 Genc Burazeri, Deputy Director

Social Assistance Sector

Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth
       Central Level
 HE Erion Veliaj, Minister of Social Welfare and Youth (since September 2013)
                                              71                                 ANNEX C


   Bardhylka Kospiri, Deputy Minister of Social Welfare and Youth (since September 2013)
   Kastriot Sulka, former Deputy Minister of Labor, Social Welfare and Equal
    Opportunities (official Social Sector DPL counterpart)
   Alfred Nurja, Chief of Cabinet, Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth (since September
    2013)
   Enkelejd Musabelliu, Adviser to the Minister, Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth
    (since September 2013)
   Denada Seferi, Director of Social Services and Social Assistance Department, Ministry of
    Social Welfare and Youth
   Etleva Zeqja, Head of Sector, Social Services and Social Assistance Department,
    Ministry of Social Welfare and Youth
   Ilda Bozo, Head of Monitoring and Evaluation Sector, Ministry of Social Welfare and
    Youth
       Region of Durres
   Dorian Hatibi, Director, Regional Directorate of State Social Service
   Edlira Ndreu, Physician, Regional Directorate of State Social Service
   Gezim Pajo, Inspector, Regional Directorate of State Social Service
   Denis Risto, Inspector, Regional Directorate of State Social Service


       Region of Elbasan
   Marsida Haxhiu, Director, Regional Directorate of State Social Service
   Financial Management Specialist, Regional Directorate of State Social Service


Professional Organizations and Civil Society
   Shaqir Krasta, Secretary General, National Council, Order of Physicians of Albania
   Sabri Skenderi, Nurse, Head, Albanian Order of Nurses
   Albert Gjoka, Head, Health Journalists Club
   Lorina Mixha, Journalist at Top Media, covering health and social welfare issues
   Eglantina Bardhi, Health Journalist and Civil Society Activist

World Bank
   Kseniya Lvovsky, Former Country Manager, Albania, 2010-2013
   Daniel Dulitzky, Sector Manager, ECA, Health and Nutrition, March 2011–Present,
    (Task Team Leader of Social Sector DPL during Preparation)
ANNEX C                                   72


   Lorena Kostallari, Task Team Leader (Health System Modernization Project and Social
    Sector DPL)
   Dominic Haazen, former Task Team Leader (Health System Modernization Project)
   Pia Schneider, former Task Team Leader (Health System Modernization Project)
   Monika Huppi, former Health Sector Leader and author of Health Policy Note (2006).
   Melis Guven, Senior Social Protection Specialist, ECA, 2008-2012 (Team member, then
    Task Team Leader of Social Sector DPL until 2012)
   Aylin Isik-Dikmelik, Senior Economist, ECSH3 (Task Team Leader of Social Assistance
    Modernization Project)


Other Development Partners and Independent Experts

   Vasil Miho, Acting Head of Office, Albania Country Office, World Health Organization,
    Albania Office
   Zamira Sinoimeri, Senior Health Policy Adviser, USAID ‘Enabling Equitable Health
    Reforms’ Project (former Deputy Minister of Health, and formerly with WHO)
   Altin Azisllari, Independent HIS Expert (former USAID ‘Pro Shendetit’ Project HMIS
    component head)
   Anne Savary, Deputy Director of Cooperation, Swiss Agency for Development and
    Cooperation (SDC), Albania Office
   Sokol Haxhiu, National Program Officer, Swiss Agency for Development and
    Cooperation (SDC), Albania Office
                                                      73


Annex D. Previous Bank Support to Health and Social
Protection in Albania
Sector/Projects     Approved     Closed     Credit      Objectives
                                            (Total      (taken from abstract in Bank’s system)
                                            Cost)
                                            (US$m)
                                                      Health
Health Services     11/08/94     03/31/01     12.4     To help prevent deterioration in health status during the
Rehabilitation                               (16.0)    economic transition by improving the quality of basic preventive
Project                                                and curative health care through upgrading primary and
P008253                                                secondary facilities, improving skills of providers and building
                                                       central and district capacity to manage resources and implement
                                                       reforms. Outcome: Satisfactory
Health System       05/12/98     01/31/05     17.0     To establish/strengthen institutional and human resource
Recovery and                                 (28.0)    capacities for an effective and sustainable health sector; and
Development                                            improve the accessibility, quality and efficiency of essential
Project                                                health services, in fulfillment of a precondition for sustained
P045312                                                improvements in health status. Outcome: Moderately
                                                       Unsatisfactory
Health System       06/14/06     06/30/12     15.4     To improve (i) the capacity of the Ministry of Health and Health
Modernization                                (19.1)    Insurance Institute to effectively formulate and implement
Project                                                health policies and reforms in provider payments, monitoring
P082814                                                and quality assurance; (ii) the access to and quality of primary
                                                       health care services, with an emphasis on those in poor and
                                                       under-serviced areas; and (iii) governance and management in
                                                       the hospital sector. Outcome: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Avian Influenza     06/27/06     12/31/10      5.0     To strengthen the country’s capacity to prevent the spread of
Control & Human                               (6.0)    avian influenza among poultry, to prevent the transmission of
Pandemic                                               avian influenza from birds to other animals and humans, and to
Preparedness and                                       prepare for a potential pandemic of Avian Flu transmissible
Response                                               between humans. Outcome: Moderately Satisfactory
P100273

                                                  Social Protection
Social Safety Net   09/14/93   08/31/99       5.5      To develop policy to consolidate basic social insurance and social
P008265                                      (6.2)     assistance programs reform; strengthen institutions responsible
                                                       for planning and management of cash benefits; and strengthen
                                                       training, research and statistical institutions to support social
                                                       policy formation and implementation. To support Albania in
                                                       restructuring the social safety net and bringing social policies in
                                                       line with a decentralized democratic society and a transitional
                                                       economy. Includes social insurance reform and social assistance
                                                       development. Outcome: Satisfactory
Social Services     06/07/01   03/30/13      10.0      To improve standards of living for the poor and vulnerable
Delivery Project                            (15.0)     population groups by increasing their access to well-targeted and
P055383                                                effective social care services; assisting the Government to
                                                       develop, monitor and evaluate more effective social policy; and
                                                       improving capacity for planning, managing and delivering social
                                                       care services with increased involvement of local governments,
                                                       communities, and civil society. Outcome: Moderately
                                                       Satisfactory
Social Service      03/17/09   N/A            5.0      To improve the standards of living of poor and vulnerable
Delivery Project                                       population groups in Albania by: (a) increasing their access to
Additional                                             effective social care services; (b) assisting the Government to
Financing                                              develop effective social care policy and improve its capacity for
P107382                                                delivery and monitoring of social care services; and (c)
                                                       improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the pension system
                                                       in Albania. Outcome: Moderately Satisfactory
ANNEX D                                                   74

Social Sector         04/28/11    04/30/20       25.0      To support policy changes to improve the effectiveness of social
Reform                            12                       safety nets, and enhance efficiency and equity of health spending,
Development                                                in a fiscally sustainable environment. The DPL will also enhance
Policy Loan                                                the transparency and accountability by supporting policies to
P116937                                                    improve the administration of social assistance programs and
                                                           promoting the use of systematic formulas to allocate resources in
                                                           selected social programs and services. This DPL supports the
                                                           adoption of broad policy changes in social programs through
                                                           revised legislation or other Government decisions. It is part of a
                                                           package that combines policy and institutional reforms with
                                                           support for enhanced implementation capacity through
                                                           investment lending. Outcome: Moderately Satisfactory
Social Assistance     04/03/12    06/30/20       50.0      To support country’s implementation of reforms to improve the
Modernization                     17           (244.5)     equity and efficiency of its social assistance programs.
Project                                                    Under Implementation
P122233

                                                      Poverty Reduction
PRSC1      06/20/02    6/30/03      20.0     To develop and implement fiscally sustainable policies within the framework of
P069935                            (20.0)    Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy that supports a higher quality of life,
                                             especially for the poor, consistent with the country’s overall growth strategy.
                                             This operation supports: more effective and efficient policy formulation and
                                             implementation, improved access to social services and better targeting of
                                             scarce fiscal resources to those most in need, and policies conducive to
                                             sustained growth. Outcome: Satisfactory
PRSC2      07/10/03    12/31/04     18.0     To develop and implement fiscally sustainable policies within the framework of
P077739                            (18.0)    the Government’s strategy (NSSED) supporting a higher quality of life
                                             (especially for the poor), and consistent with and supportive the overall growth
                                             strategy. This operation will support more effective and efficient policy
                                             formulation and implementation, improved access to social services and better
                                             targeting of scarce fiscal resources to those most in need. Outcome:
                                             Moderately Satisfactory
PRSC3      12/07/04    12/31/05     10.0     To consolidate reforms in public administration, public expenditure
P083337                            (10.0)    management and accountability, and social service delivery, supporting the
                                             country’s efforts to increase accountability, responsibility, effectiveness.
                                             Reforms would help increase professionalism and the performance of social
                                             sector line agencies and the social insurance institute thus improving capacity to
                                             regulate, monitor and delivery services. Outcome: Satisfactory
                                                    75


Annex E. HSMP Performance Indicators
Table E.1. Relevance of Design -- Analysis of Restructurings – Indicators and Activities
Indicators (4/22/10 restructuring)             Activities
PDO #1 Improve the physical and financial access to, and use of high quality primary health care
services, with an emphasis on those in poor and under-served areas, as well as to diminish the unnecessary use
of secondary and tertiary care facilities
                                                     Added:
Health facilities (PHC centers) renovated      Purchasing of specialized medical equipment (mammographs
and equipped: target 2200 PHC centers          and autoclaves, e.g.) for Albania’s main hospitals to support
furnished w/ med eq                            increasing capacity in (a) diagnosis of breast cancer through
                                               purchasing of mammography equipment for four main
                                               hospitals; and (b) treatment of hospital waste by the provision of
                                               autoclaves for seven main hospitals. ICR noted that this
                                               supported strengthening of the primary-secondary care
                                               interface. The purchase of sophisticated equipment for Tirana
                                               hospital was also included: cardiology, pediatric surgery.
                                               4/2010
Children immunized                             Purchasing of medical equipment for the regional hospitals
                                               based on the rationalization plan for hospitals in support of
                                               strengthening regional hospital capacity. 4/2010
Pregnant women receiving antenatal care        National Communication Strategy: the design and roll-out of a
during visit to a health provider              communication strategy for the health sector. 4/2010
Improved capacity of all regional hospitals
through supply of essential medical
equipment (target: functional in all regional
hospitals)
Strengthened hospital capacity to diagnose
breast cancer and dispose of hospital waste
(through purchasing of autoclaves and
mammography equipment)
                                                   Dropped:
Primary care physician practice patterns are   Grant facility to fund proposals from primary care providers in
consistent with quality training, confirmed    support of quality of care and a continuum of care improvement
by the 70 percent compliance with              initiatives. Government has not shown due interest in
disseminated clinical practice guidelines and implementing this activity (no step has been undertaken for
by referrals to secondary and tertiary care    establishing the required unit responsible for grant fiduciary
consistent with these guidelines               responsibilities, no grant procedures were defined (eligibility
                                               and selection criteria), no public information campaign,
                                               promotion sensitization activities were carried out, etc.).
                                               Decision thus made to reallocate proceeds to other priorities.
                                               4/2010
Increase of 30 percent in the proportion of
identified medical conditions that are cared
for w/in a PHC setting
PDO #2 Improve the Recipient’s capacity (to increase the effectiveness of the MoH and the HII) to
formulate and implement health policies and reforms (in provider payments and health system performance)
in the health sector
                                                     Added:
Health Sector Strategy developed and           Finance the production of health cards for ages 0-16 (not
approved                                       covered by general ID card) based on GoA decision to finance
                                               from its own budget the health cards and general identification
                                               cards for the population over 16 years). 4/2010
Licensing and Accreditation established
ANNEX E                                             76

(2010) and functioning (2012)
                                                   Dropped:
HII is able to live within its budget w/out    Procurement of software dropped, but procurement of hardware
additional Ministry of Finance funding         will still continue to be financed under the project, as planned.
                                               This is due to significant delays in procurement of software
                                               (main reason being lack of decision from HII on key directions
                                               for developing the information system for HII). 9/2011
Over 90 percent of total publicly financed     Facilitation of registration of the population with the HII and
health expenditures flow through active        enrollment with a primary care physician. Dropped because
purchasing methods                             design of health info system suffered from continuous delays.
                                               9/2011
Revised payment methods in primary,
specialist and hospital care increase
efficiency and effectiveness, measured by:
      10 percent reduction in admission
          rate
      10 percent lower average length of
          stay
MoH and HIF policy units provide timely
support for policy development
Effective continuing medical education
(CME) catering to all GPs and FPs and
delivering 40 hours of training per year per
physician
All physicians are licensed and a first cohort
of 20 percent of all physicians has gone
through the re-validation (relicensing)
procedure.
All hospitals have been surveyed according
to the accreditation standards and have
written quality improvement plans to
achieve the standards.
PDO #3 Improve hospital governance and management
                                                    Added:
Privatization plan for non-medical activities  Privatization of all non-medical activities in the regional
in all regional hospitals developed and        hospitals: technical assistance to MoH in preparing and
presented to Govt for further decision         implementing this in all regional hospitals in the country, as a
                                               part of the PPP framework. 4/2010
Rationalization plan for hospitals developed Testing of the hospitalization rationalization strategy on a pilot
and approved by the Government                 basis in two selected districts through the provision of
                                               consultancy services. 9/2011
Number of hospitals’ key administration
staff trained: 180
                                                   Dropped:
Based on agreed key performance
indicators, hospitals using new governance
approaches perform better than those who
do not.
Hospital performance using an agreed set of
key indicators, and comparisons between
hospitals being done
Number of hospitals where board
governance structures are successfully
piloted
                                                       77                                        ANNEX E


Table E.2. Health System Modernization Project: Objectives and Indicators Worksheet
Original57                                 Restructuring Paper               Actuals
                                           (April 22, 2010)
                                           (baselines updated in this
                                           Paper; targets set for new
                                           closing date established in the
                                           Paper: 3/31/2012)
                                           Note: These indicators were
                                           recorded in the March 2009
                                           Aid-memoire and were
                                           monitored from that point on.
 PDO #1: To improve the physical and financial access to, and use of, high quality primary health care
services, with an emphasis on those in poor and under-served areas, as well as to diminish the unnecessary use
                                    of secondary and tertiary care facilities
                           Project Outcome Indicators/Key Performance Indicators
 At least 70 percent of the               Original KPI                Data not clear: The ICR reports 70
    population is enrolled with a          Maintained:                 percent, based on HII administrative data
    primary health care provider…          At least 70 percent of the and preliminary results of the Population
 …and use him/her as their first          population is enrolled      and Housing Census 2011 (for
    source of health care                  with a PHC provider…        population data). Preliminary data from
                                           …and use him/her as         LSMS 2012 show 62 percent. However,
                                           their first source of       INSTAT notes that the question on
                                           health care                 coverage and registration is not clear and
                                           Baseline: 0                 they believe the level to be higher. It is
                                           Target: 70 percent          still unclear to IEG (unable to obtain the
                                                                       LSMS) what are: the numerator and
                                                                       denominator, methodology for
                                                                       calculating, regional/district breakdown,
                                                                       among others. It is difficult to reconcile
                                                                       this with HII Annual Report 2012 data
                                                                       that note 53 percent of the population to
                                                                       be covered by insurance and enrolled
                                                                       with a primary health physician.
 Reduced percentage of households Original KPI                        Data not clear. The ICR reports that the
    who do not seek necessary health       Maintained: Reduced         percentage of the population avoiding
    care because they cannot afford        percentage of               care-seeking behavior due to financial
    it….                                   households who do not       factors decreased from 27 percent in
                                           seek necessary health       2005 (LSMS) to 19 percent in 2012 (i.e.,
Baseline: not specified                    care because    they cannot a 30 percent reduction). The TTL has
Target: 50 percent                         afford it…                  promised to send IEG the two surveys
                                           …and reduced share of       from which the 2005 and 2012 data were
 …and reduced share of household          household expenditure       drawn so that IEG can assess the
    expenditure for primary care           for primary care services comparability of the two sets of data and
    services                               Baseline: 28.9 percent      the methods for calculations. But those
                                           Target: 20 percent          have not been received. This is
Baseline: not specified                    (not clear which sub-       inconsistent with USAID’s survey of
Target: 50 percent                         indicator   the baseline    consumers (2013).
                                           and target data are
                                           addressing
 Increased patient satisfaction with      Maintained: Increased       Inconsistent data: The ICR reports 98
    PHC treatment…                         patient satisfaction with   percent. Data is derived from sector
Baseline: not specified                    PHC treatment               surveys and the MoH. IEG has not been


57
  PDOs taken from PAD statement (p. 6) and DCA statement Annex 1; KPIs taken from PAD p. 6;
intermediate outcome indicators taken from PAD Results Framework, Annex 3, p. 24.
ANNEX E                                            78

Target: an increase of 30 percent over    Baseline: 88.4 percent       successful in accessing the sources of
baseline, as measured by two              Target: 100 percent          this data to gain a better appreciation of
subsequent population surveys with                                     the survey question(s), sample,
identical questionnaires (Component 2                                  methodology, etc. This data is highly
indicator)                                                             inconsistent with a USAID survey of
                                                                       consumers’ perspectives on the health
                                                                       care system (USAID, 2013) and with
                                                                       IEG’s mission findings.

                                                                       Achievement unknown: The ICR
                                                                       reports that there is no strong evidence to
                                                                       suggest improved outcomes for defined
                                                                       health conditions; and IEG corroborates
   …and improved outcomes for                                         this finding.
    defined health conditions
                                          Maintained: …and
                                          improved outcomes for
                                          defined health conditions
                                          Added: Number of          Target almost achieved: The ICR
                                          visits per capita per yearreports the achievement of 2.0 visits,
                                          to the primary health     estimated using HII data, refreshed with
                                          care centers              the 2011 census data on population.
                                          Baseline: 1.6             HII/MoH data (also reported in the ICR)
                                          Target: 2.0               of 5.754,452 visits in 2011 translates to
                                                                    1.8 visits per capita using the World
                                                                    Bank World Development Indicator
                                                                    estimate for Albania’s population size
                                                                    for 2011.
                                Intermediate Outcome Indicators (Component 2)
Population is registered with primary health care providers
 70 percent of the population per         Duplicate of KPI
    district/region is enrolled with a
    specific physician (or PHC center)
Population has better access to PHC
services
 Average out-of-pocket payment for Dropped                         Not monitored.
    PHC services is reduced by 50
    percent
 Avoiding care-seeking behavior           Duplicate of KPI
    due to financial factors has reduced
    by 50 percent
Quality is improved
 Training has been completed…             Reworded: Quality        Target partially achieved. Training
                                           training for primary     expanded to three additional regions
                                           health care (provided by (Tirana, Durres, and Elbasan) or 60
                                           USAID in six of twelve   percent of the population in the six
                                           regions) scaled up to    targeted regions.
 …and primary care physician              remaining six regions
    practice patterns are consistent       Baseline: 0              Not monitored.
    with this training, confirmed by the Target: 6
    70 percent compliance with
    disseminated clinical practice         Dropped
    guidelines and by referrals to
    secondary and tertiary care,
    consistent with these guidelines
                                                    79                                            ANNEX E

                                          Added: Health                Target achieved. 560 health personnel
                                          personnel receiving          received training.
                                          training
                                          Baseline: 0
                                          Target: 560
  Patient/physician satisfaction with    Duplicate of KPI
   PHC has increased by 30 percent
   according to two subsequent
   population surveys with identical
   questionnaires
PHC is used for a majority of health services needs
 Increase of 30 percent in the            Dropped                     Not monitored
   proportion of identified medical
   conditions that are cared for within
   a PHC setting
                                           Added: Health facilities    Data unclear. The ICR reports that
                                           (PHC centers) renovated     2200 PHC facilities were “constructed,
                                           and equipped                renovated, and/or equipped,” but there
                                           Baseline: 0                 are only 421 PHC centers in the country
                                           Target: 2200 PHC            and there was no construction envisaged
                                           centers furnished with      under the project. The TTL and Project
                                           medical equipment           Director later clarified that, in addition to
                                                                       the 421 health centers, the other facilities
                                                                       equipped were “ambulances” (small
                                                                       rural health outposts). There is no
                                                                       information on geographic breakdown of
                                                                       this support to monitor intended attention
                                                                       to underserviced areas and/or improve
                                                                       physical coverage.
                                          Added: Children              Indicator statement unclear. The ICR
                                          immunized                    reports that the share of children
                                          Baseline: 220,000            immunized remained high at 94 percent
                                          Target: 240,000              in 2010 and 95 percent in 2012.
                                                                       Baseline and target values are expressed
                                                                       as proportions. This was added as a
                                                                       Bank “core indicator” but it is not clear
                                                                       whether “children immunized” means
                                                                       fully immunized, any immunization, any
                                                                       age… The TTL has asked the Project
                                                                       Director to confirm that this indicator
                                                                       means children under five, who are fully
                                                                       immunized.
                                          Added: Pregnant              Indicator statement unclear. The ICR
                                          women receiving              reports that the percent of pregnant
                                          antenatal care during a      women receiving antenatal care during a
                                          visit to a health provider   visit to a health provider increased from
                                          Baseline: 33,000             95 to 97 percent. Initial baseline and
                                          Target: 36,000               target were based on data from the last
                                                                       census. Due to a significant reduction in
                                                                       fertility, the total annual number of births
                                                                       is currently estimated to be between
                                                                       33,000 and 34,000.
                                                                       The indicator as it is stated in the
                                                                       restructuring and reported on in the ICR
                                                                       is poorly stated, conveying that the
ANNEX E                                            80

                                                                     denominator is pregnant women visiting
                                                                     the health center. But the TTL says that
                                                                     the numerator is pregnant women
                                                                     visiting the health center and the
                                                                     denominator is all pregnant women. The
                                                                     project director has been asked to clarify
                                                                     and provide any data updates.
(Implicit intermediate outcome added during April 2010 restructuring: Improved capacity of hospitals to
provide quality referral services from PHC level
                                           Add: Improved             Target partially achieved. Some of the
                                           capacity of all regional  equipment was not supplied due to mis-
                                           hospitals through supply procurement.
                                           of essential medical
                                           equipment
                                           Target: Medical
                                           equipment functional in
                                           all regional hospitals
                                           Added: Strengthened       Target partially achieved. Autoclave
                                           hospital capacity to      equipment functioning in 7 hospitals;
                                           diagnose breast cancer    and 4 hospitals equipped with
                                           and dispose of hospital   mammography equipment.
                                           waste (through
                                           purchasing of autoclaves
                                           and mammography
                                           equipment)
                                           Baseline: 0
                                           Target: autoclaves
                                           functioning in 7 main
                                           hospitals; and 4 key
                                           hospitals equipped with
                                           mammography
**No indicators/measurement of effect on poor/vulnerable populations and areas, despite its emphasis in the
PAD
   PDO #2: To improve the Recipient’s capacity (to increase the effectiveness of the MoH and the HII) to
formulate and implement health policies and reforms (in provider payments and health system performance)
                                               in the health sector
                            Project Outcome Indicators/Key Performance Indicators
 HII is able to live within its budget Dropped                      Not accurately or consistently monitored.
    without additional Ministry of
    Finance funding
                                Intermediate Outcome Indicators (Component 1)
MoH and HIF are capable of developing and modifying health policies, effectively monitoring health system
performance and effectively purchasing and monitoring health services on behalf of the population of Albania
 Over 90 percent of total publicly        Dropped                   Not monitored.
    financed health expenditures flow
    through active purchasing methods
 Revised payment methods in
    primary, specialist and hospital
    care increase efficiency and
    effectiveness, measured by:
          o 10 percent reduction in        Dropped                   Unreliable data. The ICR reported that
               admission rate                                        the hospital admission rate was reduced
                                                                     by 1 percent. It was clarified by the TTL
                                                                     that since this is a dropped indicator,
                                                                     reporting was based only on some
                                                     81                                         ANNEX E

                                                                       administrative data, which are not that
                                                                       reliable.
        o    10 percent lower average      Dropped                     Unreliable data. The ICR reported that
             length of stay (ALOS)                                     ALOS was reduced by 9 percent. The
                                                                       TTL indicates that, as above, this
                                                                       indicator was dropped and reporting is
                                                                       based on unreliable data.
   An agreed set of monitoring data is    Reworded: An agreed         Target partially achieved. A set of
    available on an ongoing basis with     set of monitoring data is   monitoring data including 145 indicators
    monthly/quarterly performance          used for M&E and            was agreed and approved by the MoH.
    reports produced                       reported (based on the      Reporting has started based on 60
                                           agreed 145 indicators)      defined indicators. MoH has obtained
                                           Baseline: No data           support from USAID to further develop
                                           agreed                      the established system.
                                           Target: Indicators
                                           produced monthly
   MoH and HIF policy units provide       Dropped                     Not monitored.
    timely support for policy
    development
   New Clinical Practice Guidelines       Reworded: New               Target partially achieved. Five CPGs
    developed and implemented for          Clinical Practice           were prepared, but their application in
    (unspecified) priority diseases        Guidelines developed for    the health facilities has not been
    (quality)                              6 priority diseases and     systematically monitored.
                                           implemented in 12
                                           regions
                                           Baseline: No CPGs in
                                           place; 5 prepared by
                                           2010
                                           Target: 6 CPGs
                                           developed and
                                           implemented in 12
                                           regions
   Effective continuing medical           Dropped                     Not monitored.
    education (CME) catering to all
    GPs and FPs and delivering 40
    hours of training per year per
    physician (quality)
   All physicians are licensed and a      Dropped                     Not monitored.
    first cohort of 20 percent of all
    physicians has gone through the re-
    validation (re-licensing) procedure
    (quality)
   All hospitals have been surveyed       Dropped                     Not monitored.
    according to the accreditation
    standards and have written quality
    improvement plans to achieve the
    standards (quality)
   Health technology assessment           Reworded: Health            Target achieved. Assessment completed
    function established and used in       technology assessment       and being used.
    decision-making on the positive list   function established and
    of drugs and investments in            used in decision-making
    hospitals                              for benefit package
                                           Baseline: No assessment
                                           in place
                                           Target: Assessment
ANNEX E                                            82

                                           completed (2010), and
                                           used in decision-making
                                           for the benefit package
                                           (2012)
                                           Added: Health Sector       Target achieved. Health Sector Strategy
                                           Strategy developed and     was developed and approved by MoH
                                           approved
                                           Baseline: No strategy in
                                           place
                                           Target: Strategy
                                           developed and approved
                                           Added: Licensing and       Target achieved. Licensing and
                                           Accreditation              accreditation unit established and fully
                                           established and            functioning.
                                           functioning
                                           Baseline: No system of
                                           licensing in place
                                           Target: Licensing and
                                           Accreditation unit
                                           established (2010) and
                                           fully functional (2012)
                         PDO #3: To improve hospital governance and management
                            Project Outcome Indicators/Key Performance Indicators
 Based on agreed key performance          Dropped                    Not accurately or consistently monitored.
    indicators, hospitals using new
    governance approaches perform
    better than those who do not
                                Intermediate Outcome Indicators (Component 3)
Improved management of hospitals and piloting efforts for increased involvement by stakeholders in the
governance of these facilities
 Hospital performance using an            Dropped                    Not monitored.
    agreed set of key indicators, and
    comparisons between hospitals
    being done
 Number of hospitals where board          Dropped                    Not monitored.
    governance structures are
    successfully piloted
                                           Added: Privatization       Target achieved: Privatization plan for
                                           plan for non-medical       non-medical activities in regional
                                           activities in all regional hospitals developed and presented to the
                                           hospitals developed and    Government.
                                           presented to the
                                           Government for further
                                           decision
                                           Baseline: No plan exists
                                           Target: Privatization
                                           plan developed and
                                           presented to the
                                           Government for further
                                           decision
                                           Added: Rationalization     Target achieved. Rationalization plan
                                           plan for hospitals         was developed and approved by the
                                           developed and approved Government.
                                           by the Government
                                           Baseline: No plan
        83                                      ANNEX E

Target: Plan developed
and approved by MoH
Added: Number of         Target achieved: 180
hospitals’ key
administration staff
trained
Baseline: 0
Target: 180
                                               84


Annex F. HSMP Financing and Use of IDA Credit
Table F.1. Planned versus Actual Financing (US$ million)                   Planned       Actual
IDA Credit                                                                     15.4         14.5
Government of Japan (PHRD)                                                      1.6          1.6
Government of Albania                                                           2.1          2.9
Total                                                                          19.1         19.0


Table F.2. Planned versus Actual Disbursements by Disbursement Category (millions
of SDRs)
Disbursement Category                          Original   April 2010    September       Actuals
                                               Allocation Restructuring 2011
                                                                        Restructuring
(1) Goods other than goods under Parts A.3           1.12          0.69            0.32    0.26
and B.6 of the Project
(2) Goods under Part A.3 of the Project              1.95         2.05            1.52      1.33
(3) Goods under Part B.6 of the Project              2.19         4.80            5.50      5.29
(4) Consultants’ services                            1.70         2.50            2.50      2.41
(5) Training                                         0.67         0.08            0.08      0.06
(6) Unit Costs under Part B.1 of the Project         1.69         0.50               0         0
(7) Small Grants under Part B.7 of the               0.34            0               0         0
Project
(8) Incremental Operating Costs                      0.44         0.08            0.08      0.06
(9) Unallocated                                      0.60            0               0         0
                                                        -            -
Total Disbursements                                 10.70        10.70           10.00      9.41
Amount of Credit Cancelled                              -            -            0.70      1.29
                                                                                 10.70     10.70
                                                             85


Annex G. Social Assistance Modernization Project
(SAMP): An Overview
Social Assistance Modernization Project, Basic Data
Objective:
To support Albania’s implementation of reforms to improve equity and efficiency of its
social assistance

Components:
  1. Strengthening the Implementation and Performance of Social Assistance
     Programs (NE and disability, included) (with focus on the main reform areas:
     (a) program parameters (eligibility criteria and intake processes); (b) benefits
     administration (business processes, information management, payments
     mechanisms, and reporting and monitoring); and (c) oversight and controls.
  2. Technical Assistance to Strengthen Implementation Capacity for Social
     Assistance Programs, including: (a) revising program parameters for improved
     equity; (b) strengthening benefits administration for improved efficiency; and
     (c) promoting transparency with communications, monitoring and evaluation; and
     (d) project implementation support.

Project Development Indicators:
   Improved Equity:
     Coverage of the extreme poor by the NE program increases by 50 percent from
       the baseline (from 25 percent to at least 38 percent);
     Targeting accuracy improves, as measured by an increase in the percentage of NE
       benefits going to the extreme poor (targeting accuracy increasing from 15 percent
       to at least 25 percent);
     Share of disability assistance beneficiaries that report “no functional disability” is
       reduced (from current share of 14 percent as reported in 2011 PSIA Survey on
       Disability;
   Increased Efficiency:
     MOLSA uses three-monthly performance management reports for policy-making
       purposes; such reports would be generated by automated MISs covering core
       monitoring indicators for NE and disability benefits;
     Detection of error and fraud strengthened through the use of risk-based profiling
       tools; and (iii) remedy of error and fraud strengthened through enforcement of
       improved sanctions policy.
Total Estimated Project Cost: EUR 185.82 million, of which EUR 147.82 million
financed by Government and EUR 38 million financed by IBRD.
Source: Project Appraisal Document, Social Assistance Modernization Project (World Bank, March 7, 2012).
                                                      86


Annex H. Social Sector Reform DPL Performance
Indicators
Table H.1. Achievement of PDO#1: Policy Changes to Improve Social Safety Effectiveness
Challenge #1: Strengthen mechanisms to allocate funds and select beneficiaries in the NE program
Government        Passage of relevant legislation with the amendment to Law No. 9355 on Social Assistance
Prior Action      and Services, approved by the Council of Ministers on January 19, 2011
Result            Adoption of this Law established the legal basis for revising eligibility criteria for NE by
Achieved          supporting changes to its resource allocation system to include poverty criterion in
                  determining allocations of grants from central to local levels of the NE program and by
                  defining household eligibility criteria based on a unified scoring formula.
DPL Outcome  Authorizing environment established for a more transparent and predictable block grant
Measurement            allocation on the basis of poverty indicators: Achieved
                   Increased percentage of poor receiving means-based social assistance from 22 percent in
                       2008 to 30 percent in 2012: Expected to be achieved (current data show increase from
                       22 to 24.3 percent [preliminary LSMS data cited by TTL], but reform implementation
                       under SAMP has not yet started. SAMP’s support of pilot reforms, while somewhat
                       delayed, is expected to culminate in the achievement of this target.
                   Increased share of benefits accruing to the poor from 42 percent in 2008 to 60 percent in
                       2013: Expected to be achieved. SAMP is supporting these activities, albeit with delays
                       in implementation, linked in part to transition in Government. The target is expected to
                       be achieved in another 1-2 years, following implementation of the pilot phase and
                       subsequent nationwide reform implementation.
SAMP Support Development of institutional capacity to implement changes in targeting, including: revision
                  of poverty estimates using 2011 Census Data; (ii) design of an allocation formula from
                  MoLSAE to municipalities using poverty indicators; (iii) development of new means testing
                  formula at the household level; and (iv) pilot testing of the revised formula.
Challenge #2: Change the indexation formula of the disability benefits package program to control the share
of resources allocated to this program, which is growing disproportionately
Government        Enactment of legislation to this end through the Council of Ministers’ Decision 602, 603 and
Prior Action      604 on July 23, 2010
Result            This legislation provides for the change in the indexation formula for disability benefits by
Achieved          linking the increases to inflation (vs. more rapidly rising minimum) thus containing the costs
                  of disability benefits.
DPL Outcome  Savings realized in disability benefit spending of at least 5 percent of its budget by 2012.
Measurement            Expected to be achieved in time and more precisely measured. The ICR reports a 7
                       percent savings, but the baseline year and basis for calculation are not clear. The TTL
                       notes that the 7 percent figure may have come from simulations prepared by the team
                       some time ago. Expected reduction in the growth/number of beneficiaries will also
                       contribute.
                   Number of disability beneficiaries as a percent of the population stabilized by 2014.
                       Expected to be achieved with ongoing support from SAMP, but not directly related to
                       the DPL’s support to changes in indexation of benefits.
SAMP Support Under SAMP disbursements will be suspended if disability increases more than inflation,
                  demonstrating emphasis on cost containment. Reform of disability under SAMP will address
                  the increase in the number of beneficiaries through redesign of eligibility criteria, reduction of
                  fraud, building MIS for disability. Disability reform more politically complex.
Challenge #3: Introduce incentives for investing in human capital by providing an additional benefit linked
to school enrollment and attendance for families with school age children
Government        The Council of Ministers approved the amendment of Law No. 9355 on January 19, 2011,
Prior Action      which provides for this bonus.
Result            While this provision has been legislatively enabled, the World Bank and the Government
Achieved          decided to postpone implementation of this reform until after the first phase of reforms has
                                                     87                                           ANNEX H

                been implemented, due to capacity constraints and fiscal concerns. It is uncertain whether the
                new government will prioritize this measure in the current fiscal environment.
DPL Outcome  Increased attendance of students from NE beneficiary families from 52 percent in 2010
Measurement           to 70 percent in 2013. Not likely to be achieved under the SAMP.
SAMP Support Implementation of the bonus for attendance through technical assistance to: (i) define the
                optimal level at which to apply bonus (primary, lower or upper secondary); and (ii) develop a
                mechanism to monitor compliance.
Challenge #4: Initiate the process to create a unified registry of beneficiaries of social assistance programs
Government      Amendment of Law 9355, approved by the Council of Ministers on January 19, 2011 to this
Prior Action    end.
Result          This legislation mandates the creation of an automated national registry for applicants and
Achieved        beneficiaries of the social assistance program.
SAMP Support Establishment of an automated information system for NE beneficiaries with a unique
                identification number linking social assistance beneficiaries with other programs is underway.
                Initial applications and cross-checks w/ other systems are currently being tested. Its pilot
                application will start in April.

Table H.2. Achievement of PDO#2: Policy Changes to Enhance the Efficiency and Equity of
Health Spending
Challenge #5: Extend health insurance coverage to social assistance beneficiaries
Government       Passage of the Law on Mandatory Insurance for Health Care, approved by the Council of
Prior Action     Ministers on January 6, 2011, passed by Parliament on February 24, 2011.
Result           Adoption of this Law authorizes HII to extend coverage of health insurance to NE program
Achieved         beneficiaries and has established the principle of a defining a package of benefits, facilitating
                 the estimation of the costs of this provision.
DPL Outcome  100 percent of NE recipients receive health insurance. Not likely to be achieved. The
Measurement           Government has not yet fully implemented this reform, due to fiscal concerns. The
                      newly elected Government has highlighted universal health coverage in its election
                      campaign, which is expected to be approached through a tax-based financing scheme.
                  Health spending as a share of household spending for the poor decreased by at least 5
                      percent. Insufficient data available. An ongoing Public Expenditure Review is
                      expected to provide trends. In the meantime, IEG field visits and interviews revealed
                      consistently high out of pocket expenditures and continued constraints to health services
                      access by the poor. Any positive trend (if identified) could not be attributed to further
                      scale-up of health insurance for the poor, since it is not fully implemented.
HSMP             Not achieved. This law has not yet been implemented because (1) the costs of this provision
Outcome          (based on the definition of the package of services and their costs) have not yet been
                 assessed; (2) concern that implementation is not affordable, given fiscal constraints; and (3) a
                 new vision of health financing under the new Government oriented around universal health
                 coverage financed by taxes vs. health insurance.
Challenge #6: Introduce more predictable fiscal rules to finance health
Government       This is addressed under the Law on Mandatory Insurance for Health Care, approved by the
Prior Action     Council of Ministers on January 6, 2011, and passed by Parliament on February 24, 2011.
Result           Under this law, the Government has defined a rule for the systematic transfer of resources to
Achieved         the HII, maintaining the payroll contribution at its current level (3.4 percent, of which 50
                 percent financed by the employer, 50 percent by the employee) and using the cost of services
                 as a criterion for financial transfers.
DPL Outcome  Transfer of funds to HII in the National Budget maintained at same level as the previous
Measurement           year or increased: Achieved, as reported in the ICR. An ongoing PER should provide
                      updates.
HSMP              Not yet, but likely to be achieved. Cost of services not yet strictly used as the basis for
Outcome          financial transfers because the definition and costing of the package of services at the PHC
                 and at the hospital level are still ongoing.
Challenge #7: Improve the methods for contracting with providers and the capacity to monitor their
ANNEX H                                          88

performance.
Government     The Government has (in 2009) unified the publicly funded purchasing of health services
Prior Action   under one agency by transferring financing of hospitals to HII in 2009. Additionally, the HII
               signed performance contracts with 42 existing hospitals, January 2011.
Result         HII is officially assigned responsibility for the purchase of all health services (PHC and
Achieved       hospitals) since 2009, but its ability to fulfill this role has been constrained. Even though
               performance contracts were signed with 42 hospitals, 95 percent of hospital financing is still
               channeled through the Treasury, and paid on the basis of expenditure receipts, not
               performance.
DPL Outcome     Percentage of payments to hospitals channeled through HII remained constant or
Measurement         increased in 2012. Not yet achieved. Only the payments to Durres Regional Hospital
                    are channeled through HII. The other 41 hospitals have 95 percent of their budgets held
                    in the Treasury and access them through submission of receipts. HII distributes the
                    remaining 5 percent.
HSMP           Not Achieved. Even though HII was officially assigned the responsibility for financing of
Support        hospitals in 2009 and performance contracts were signed with hospitals in 2011, HII only
               distributes 5 percent of the hospital budgets. Hospital budgets are prepared by Ministry of
               Health and approved by the Council of Ministers, based on historical budgets (number of
               beds) and not on the basis of services delivered and performance. Hospitals do not have a
               Bank account to receive budget funds. Rather, all the hospital financing goes to Treasury and
               hospitals must submit receipts against which they are reimbursed. While performance
               contracts have been signed, financing is largely not based on performance, except for the 5
               percent distributed by HII. The only exception out of the 42 hospitals is the Durres Regional
               Hospital, whose payments are channeled through HII, due to its special status as a pilot
               hospital.
                                             89


Annex I. Borrower Comments
ALBANIA HEALTH INSURANCE INSTITUTE’ COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT (PPAR) FOR THE HSMP IN
ALBANIA

COMMENTS FOR ANNEX 1 of the draft-report
        The IEG’s report on Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Health
System Modernization Project, gives us a clear understanding of the development of this
project through the years 2006-2012.
        The HCIF of Albania agrees on the finding of this report. They give us a great insight
of the system’s development through years of the project and also tell us about the obstacles
that have prevented the project to fully achieve its objectives, especially when it comes to the
role of the HCIF. We are determined to continue our work in line with the new Government
vision of continuing and deepening health financing and health system reforms, by polling all
public resources under HCIF and using them effectively and by clearly defining the health
care benefit which will be made for the whole population of Albania.
        In the report, you mention that our system should move towards performance based
or more advanced provider’s payment system and we are determined to go this way. Drafting
out, approving and having the backing of the Government for financing some of the most
expensive and needed package of services for all our type of patients and groups of
population, is our first step on the long road towards performance–based contract with the
hospitals.
        We agree with your finding of your report that there have been delays which have
resulted in not developing a proper and needed Health Information System for the HCIF. We
are determined to continue building our capacities towards an HCIF that will help our system
to work properly and in need of health providers and our patients.
        One of the reasons that you mention for not achieving the project’s goals is the
tensions between the MoH and HII at that time. Today there is a different political landscape
and HCIF is working in full cooperation with the MoH and other partners in the health
sector. This new reality gives us the confidence of working closely and succeeding in future
cooperation with the WB for achieving our goals on the health sector.
       After you publish the final report, we are willing to use all the finding and lessons
learned from this report as a guideline for our future cooperation in playing our role on
improving the health system and using the health financing resources in the best way
possible.



Yours sincerely,
Astrit BECI
Drejtor i Përgjithshëm
Fondi i Sigurimeve të Detyrueshme të Kujdesit Shëndetësor
ANNEX I                       90



ALBANIA MINISTRY OF HEALTH’ COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT PROJECT
PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT (PPAR) FOR THE HSMP IN ALBANIA
91   ANNEX I
