Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqept NO, 11226-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
ROADS PROJECT
FEBRUARY 11, 1993
Infrastructure Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Zlotys (ZL) (average rates)
1988  1989  1990  l90l  1992
US$1 = ZL 503 6500 9500 11458 13500 (July)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                         US System
1 meter (m)                           3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmn)                     0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kiM2)             0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                  0.9842 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                       2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT         =     Annual Average Daily Traffic
BPRSD        =     Road Network Planning Bureau
COCOM        =     Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
CTC          =     Centralized Traffic Control
DODP         =     Regional Administration of GDDP
ERR          =     Economic Rate of Return
FYR          =     First Year Rate of Return
GDDP         =     General Directorate of Public Roads
GNP          =     Gross National Product
GOP          =     Government of Poland
IBDM         =     Institute of Road and Bridge Research
LOT          =     Polish Airlines
MIS          =     Management Information System
MTME         =     Ministry of Transport, and Maritime Economy
NBP          =     National Bank of Poland
PEKAES       =     International Road Freight Company
PKP          =     Polish State Railways
PKS          =     National Road Transport Enterprise
PMS          =     Pavement Management System
PMU          =     Project Monitoring Unit (MTME)
POL          =     Polish Ocean Lines
PSK          =     Polish Domestic Freight Fowarders
SHRP         =     Strategic Highway Research Program
TA           =     Technical Assistance
TM           =     Traffic Management
TMIS         =    Transport Management Information System
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                               Pagze No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ......                    ................ (i-ii)
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                          . .   1
A. Background ............................ 1
B. Sectoral Issues and Policies ................... 2
C. Transport Sector Administration .....         ........... 4
D. Investments and Subsidies .....         ............... 5
E. Bank Experience in the Sector .....         ............ 6
II. THE ROADS SUBSECTOR . .                                          7
A. Administrative Framework.                                  7
B. Traffic.                                                   9
C. Road Nework.                                              10
D. Traffic Safety.                                           11
E. Road Planning.                                            11
F. Road Expenditures and Budgets .12
G. Road User Charges and Taxation .14
III. THE PROJECT   .                       .15
A. Objectives .15
B. Project Description ....................... 15
C. Design and Engineering .19
D. Cost Estimates .19
E. Financing .20
F. Implementation and Monitoring  ............... 21
G. Procurement .22
H. Disbursements .25
I. Reporting and Auditing .26
J. Environmental Impact .27
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                           . .   28
A. Benefits .............................. 28
B. Rates of Return ......................... 28
C. Project Risks .......................... 28
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...                      ..... 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Traffic Development
2. Transport Sector Administrative Structure
3. GDDP Organization
4. GDDP's 1993-1997 Program
5. Proposed 1993 Works Program
6. GDDP Geometric Standards
7. Project Cost Estimate
8. Implementation Schedule
9. Schedule of Disbursements
10. Environmental Control and Monitoring
MAPS
IBRD 23783-POLAND
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission to Poland in
June/July 1992. The mission was led by Enn Vasur (EC2IN). Mission members
were Messrs. Jeremy Lane (EMTIN) and Adrian Toet (Consultant). The Peer
Reviewers are Mr. Enrique Pinilla and Mr. Jacques Yenny. The Division Chief is
Mr. Hans J. Apitz (EC2IN) and the Department Director Mr. Kemal Dervis
(EC2DR).



POLAND
ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Poland
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy and
General Directorate of Public Roads
Amount:            US$150 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years maturity with 5 years grace at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Project Objectives:  The main objective of the project is to support and speed up the
modernization and transformation of the transport sector with special
emphasis on the national road network and its administration, GDDP.
In particular the project would: help improve the road network;
continue the Bank's support started in the first Transport Project for
the development of modern management tools in GDDP; introduce
competitive bidding for road works; improve the road safety situation;
and initiate the development of modern combined transport systems.
Description:       (a) Policy and Institutions. The Government will develop and
implement policies covering: adequate maintenance and strengthening
of high-priority roads, including bridges; planning and project
evaluation techniques and competitive bidding procedures for carrying
out of works; and road safety.
(b) Investments. A portion of GDDP's 1993-95 investment program
in the following areas would be financed from the loan: rehabilitation,
upgrading, realignment and/or resurfacing of priority road sections;
emergency bridge reconstruction and repair; road safety measures, TA,
studies and training of highway staff, and a pilot project for the
development of combined transports.



- ii -
Benefits:           The project will: (i) reduce vehicle operating costs; (ii) reduce future
costly reconstruction by timely and adequate maintenance; (iii) reduce
road accidents; (iv) contribute to reduced road construction costs by
exposing the local construction industry to competitive bidding
procedures; and (v) begin the development of combined transports in
Poland. Based on experience from similar projects elsewhere, an ERR
of about 20% can be expected for the type of works included in the
project.
Risks:              The main risks are: (i) the availability of adequate local funds which
are presently insufficient; and (ii) the ability of the institutions to
implement the project on time. The fiscal pressures in Poland are
likely to remain such that careful evaluation of priorities and ongoing
discussions on inter and intrasectoral budgetary trade-offs will continue
to be an essential element of Poland's cooperation with the World
Bank. More specifically in the transport sector it is recommended that
GDDP's budget be annually reviewed and agreed on with the Bank.
This same agreement would also cover another potential risk, viz. the
sometimes expressed opinion that Poland should initiate a crash
program of motorway construction, even at the expense of maintaining
the existing network. Continued disbursements would be subject to
agreement on a satisfactory budget and work program for GDDP.
Estimated Costs:
----------------------- (US$ million) -------------------------
Component                  Foreign           Local            Total
Road & Bridge Works                       140.9            143.9             284.8
Project Management                          0.6              0.2               0.8
Institutional Development                   1.5              0.1               1.6
Road Safety Program                         5.0              2.6               7.6
Combined Transports                         2.0              0.0               2.0
Grand Total                               150.0            146.8             296.8
(of which contingencies)                 (13.9)            (13.5)           (27.4)



-iii-
Financing Plan:
--------------------------------- (US$Million)----------------------------------
Foreign             Local               Total
Government                       0.0               146.8              146.8
IBRD                           150.0                 0.0               150.0
TOTAL                          150.0               146.8              296.8
Estimated Disbursement:
IBRD FY                        1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Annual (US$ Million)            15   30    36    30    24    15
Cumulative (US$ Million)        15   45    81   l1l   135   150
Economic Rate of Return:      About 20%






Chapter I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.1   Poland possesses extensive transport networks and facilities. Related to country area,
313,000 kM2, and population, 38 million, transport densities are at an average European
level. The system includes about 360,000 km of roads of which more than 60% are paved,
some 24,000 km of railway lines, of which 43% are electrified, four major ports with
international traffic, close to 4,000 km of inland waterways, and four airports with scheduled
international connections as well as a large number of domestic airports (see IBRD Map
23783).
1.2   The present situation in the sector is shaped by two main factors - the legacy of the
past and the ongoing restructuring of the economy. In Poland, as elsewhere in Eastern
Europe under the former system, there was a general lack of competition, pricing was
unimportant, and enterprises were vertically integrated, providing their own technical and
social services. There was a high degree of centralization in decision making. In the
transport sector this led to a small number of very big organizations, some with hundreds of
thousands of employees. In particular, it led to a preeminence of railways, lost long ago in
Western Europe to road transport, which in Poland was developed mainly as own account
activities by industrial and agricultural enterprises to provide for their own needs. A deep
transformation of objectives, policies, structures and operations is now underway to enable
the sector to break away from state owned, centrally controlled monopolies geared to meet
mainly physical targets with scant regard for quality, financial and other efficiency criteria.
At the same time, modernization of certain parts of the sector and a geographic redirection of
emphasis for closer integration with the economies of Western Europe are of high priority.
Also, some existing facilities should be closed since they no longer have any meaningful
role.
1.3   This transformation has started and notable results have been achieved. Partly as a
consequence of the transformation but also because of the severe drop in industrial output,
especially for heavy industries such as steel and coal which were major customers, there has
been a marked drop in traffic, especially for the railways. These changes have been much
more extensive than was foreseen a few years ago. During the past three years, 1988-1991,
freight traffic on the railways has been almost halved and passenger traffic reduced by about
one third. For road transport the situation is less clear, with the statistics showing a
decrease, both for passengers and freight, although much less than for railways. This does
not show the full picture however, since the effects of the emergence of a number of private
road transport companies are not fully reflected in the statistics. Parallel to these
developments, road traffic, measured in number of vehicles on the roads, has continued its
strong growth which started in the early 70's, showing a 4% annual growth over the past
five years. This trend is likely to continue, gradually making the distribution between rail
and road traffic in Poland more similar to that in Western Europe where it is about 25/75 for



freight. In Poland, despite the growing importance of road transport, this ratio is still
roughly the reverse, i.e. 75/25. Annex I shows the traffic development since 1970.
B. Sectoral Issues and Policies
1.4   The issues confronting the transport sector are as varied as those confronting the
economy as a whole. The following themes cover many of the important questions and
problems of the sector.
Restructuring of State Owned Transport Organizations
1.5   The first formal steps of this restructuring have been taken through the splitting of the
former monolithic enterprises into smaller parts. The former National Road Transport
Enterprise (PKS) has been separated into some 230 enterprises now owned by the Ministry of
Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME), and the voivodships (local government
authorities) or private investors. A similar change has been made in the road construction
sector where 238 units formerly part of and within the structure of the General Directorate of
Public Roads (GDDP) have been transformed into enterprises which are supposed to develop
full independence from GDDP. In the railways sector, 70 subsidiaries of the Polish State
Railways (PKP) have been transformed into enterprises that are now formally independent.
Separation of ancillary services has also been used in the civil aviation and maritime sectors.
In some cases, these new enterprises have been privatized and/or they have formed joint-
ventures with foreign partners, but in most cases these newly formed state enterprises,
although formally independent, operate in transitional and not very well defined
circumstances with many of the old linkages remaining and new relationships only beginning
to emerge. These enterprises have a severe shortage of staff knowledgeable in marketing,
finances, accounting, etc. which is necessary in a market economy. Also the underlying
viability of many of them is doubtful and it will take time before it is clear which ones will
survive and which will not. In the meantime, they all operate in a very transitory
environment characterized by elements of both a market economy and remnants of the
command system, and with the economic and financial rules being only gradually defined. It
has been agreed that assistance to the former PKS road transport and GDDP road and bridge
construction enterprises will be provided for within the framework of the Bank's
Privatization and Restructuring Project (Loan PO-3342) (paras. 2.2 and 5. l.i).
Competition and Modernization
1.6   The Government's expressed aim is to increase competition in the whole transport
sector. The restructuring of the enterprises as outlined above is one element in this strategy.
Another one has been to remove restrictions on access to the market for private companies.
This has yielded good results in the road transport business, where the access to both freight



-3-
and passenger markets is free, requiring only registration with MTME. This policy has had
a strong impact, with more than half of all trucks now being privately owned and operated.
It has also introduced a degree of real competition with PKP which previously had held a
virtual monopoly on many segments of the market. The marked decline of rail traffic is
partly a result of this increased competition. Both GDDP and PKP previously procured
goods and services available from their subsidiary units without competition but are now
inviting bids from these and from outside enterprises.
1.7   Combined transport is developing rapidly in Western Europe. Poland has for a long
time made efforts to promote this kind of transport but with limited success. The necessary
physical facilities, although less than optimal, are in place in a number of container
terminals, but the previous organizational arrangements among the monopolistic entities did
not foster the cooperation necessary for the functioning of combined transport. The
Combined Transport Study that was conducted in 1991 identified a number of organizational
and institutional issues as being more important than hardware. This project supports these
measures through a Pilot Program.
Tariffs and User Charges
1.8   Tariff controls have been abolished for freight transport, both by rail and by road
with a few exceptions of maximum tariffs in areas with no or little competition. For
passenger transport there are not only government controlled tariffs on many services but
there are also a variety of special rebates. About two thirds of all PKP passengers pay
reduced or no tariffs. This led to a situation where PKP passengers, on the average, paid
only about 20% of costs.  This is being changed with gradual real tariff increases having
been implemented (para. 1. 15). While some continued control over commuter and municipal
transport tariffs is envisaged, it is the Government's policy to abolish tariff controls on other
passenger services and to radically reduce the categories benefitting from reduced tariffs.
1.9   In accordance with the Bank's advice, vehicle fuel taxes have been increased
substantially. These taxes now constitute about 60% and 50% of the Polish retail prices of
gasoline and diesel respectively, which brings them close to or above (for diesel) the West
European levels in percentage terms. Unleaded gasoline is priced below leaded.
Adaptation of the Road Network and its Administration to Growing Traffic
1.10  Road traffic has shown a spectacular increase during the past 20 years. Since 1970,
the number of cars has increased by more than 10 times, although car ownership, now at a
level of 124 cars/1000 inhabitants, is still only one third of Western Europan levels. During
the past 5 years, the annual growth rate has been around 7-8% and the average growth in
traffic on the national road network was 4% per year, with an increase of close to 7% per
year on the main network. Due to the difficult budget situation, funding for roads has



decreased very steeply over the last few years with the total GDDP budget in 1991 being a
third of what it was in 1987. This has created a serious backlog in maintenance and
rehabilitation. Combined with the continuing increases in traffic, this backlog has increased
the number of road accidents and Poland is now among the worst countries in this respect.
There is also a need to plan for the future construction of urban by-passes and motorways.
The present project addresses the national road network and its administration.
Restructuring of Railways
1.11  Of all the transport sector entities, PKP faces the most fundamental restructuring
needs. From having been an organization engaged in a variety of ancillary services besides
railway transport, such as manufacturing of a wide spectrum of products, construction, and
provision of housing, recreational, social and educational facilities for its close to half a
million employees in the mid 80's, it is presently in the midst of a massive restructuring
effort to transform it into a smaller and market oriented enterprise. Substantial progress has
already been achieved and the Bank's ongoing First Transport Project has contributed to this.
The separation of the manufacturing and other enterprises outlined above was an important
step in defining PKP's functions. Uneconomic lines and services have been closed faster
than anticipated and maintenance and other services are being consolidated. Staff has been
reduced from 450,000 in 1989 to 285,000 in 1991 and operations and services have been
reduced to reflect the decreasing demand. Operating subsidies have come down from more
than US$750 million in 1988 to less than US$200 million in 1992. However, much remains
to be done if PKP is to emerge as a viable entity in the future, with further important
reductions in staff and network, rationalization of operations, better marketing, shedding of
uneconomic activities, etc. The Bank's next transport sector project will continue to address
these issues.
C. Transport Sector Administration
1.12   The Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME) has overall
responsibility for the transport sector within the government structure. The Ministry's
responsibility covers rail, road, air and maritime transport and infrastructure, plus some
related activities such as a few minor shipyards located within the port areas. The legal
arrangements and actual operating arrangements between the Ministry and its dependent
entities vary, covering the full range from purely administrative units such as the General
Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP) to enterprises in which the government retains control.
Annex 2 shows the administrative structure of the Polish transport sector.
1.13  MTME's main functions are: (i) policy formulation; (ii) elaboration of sectoral
budgets; (iii) allocation of budgetary funds and subsidies between subsectors and enterprises;
(iv) overall supervision of entities such as PKP and GDDP; and (v)passenger tariff



-5-
approvals, as well as a variety of regulatory activities. In addition, an increasingly important
and growing activity for which the Ministry is not well equipped is the supervision and
control of the transport enterprises, including the recently created state owned enterprises.
The type of problems as well as the sheer number of these enterprises make effective
supervision by the Ministry difficult.
D. Investments and Subsidies
1.14  The transport sector investments allocated through MTME for the period 1989-1992
have been as follows:
Table 1.1: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENTS
ZL Billion 1992 (Million US$)
1989            1990            1991            1992
Railways           5,306   (393)    5,373  (398)  3,956    (293)  1,701   (126)
Ports & Shipping                    1,701   (126)  1,107     (82)  1.499   (111)
Air Transport                       1,796   (133)  2,214    (164)  1,323    (98)
Public Roads       1,153   (115)    1.134    (84)   662    (49)   581    (43)
Miscellaneous      4,852   (359)    1,399   (104)  1,754   (130)  1,848   (137)
| Total           11,711   (867)   11,403  (845)  9,693   (718)  6,952   (515)
The sharply decreasing investments reflect the general economic and budgetary difficulties of
the Polish economy. This decrease further exacerbates a critical situation which has been
building up over the past dozen years and which has led to severe problems in the sector,
such as rundown facilities, deferred maintenance and general obsolescence. For the road
network, the situation is becoming critical and the present project focuses on this issue.
1.15  Operating subsidies are paid to PKP and the PKS successor companies for passenger
transport (see Table 1.2).



- 6 -
Table 1.2: OPERATING SUBSIDIES
ZL Billion 1992 (Million US$)
1988           1989             1990            1991          1992
PKP     10,368  (752)   9,148  (677)  3,147   (233)  2,651   (196)  2,600   (192)
PKS      2,446  (181)   1,857  (137)  1,611   (119)   1,089    (81)  1,200    (89)
Total    12,814  (933)   11,005  (814)  4,758   (352)  3,740   (277)  3,800   (281)
These operating subsidies have decreased steeply in the past five years. The main reason is
the sharply increased tariffs. While cross-subsidization from freight to passenger services is
substantial, it does not seem to have increased, since PKP passenger tariffs have increased in
real terms by about 20% between January 1989 and March 1992. A contributing factor to
the decrease in subsidies has been the cessation of low volume services, both rail and road,
as well as the transfer of various PKS services to private ownership (para. 1.5).
E. Bank Experience in the Sector
1.16  The Bank has been involved in the sector since the late 80's. The ongoing First
Transport Project (Loans 3193-PO and 3194-PO, US$4.8 and 145.0 millions respectively,
Staff Appraisal Report 8431-POL of April 5, 1991) aims to support the restructuring of the
sector through developing more efficient internal management systems and maintenance
procedures, together with the financing necessary to support this. The project has
concentrated heavily on PKP, with a smaller component going to GDDP for the
establishment of a Pavement Management System which includes the supply of field
measurement equipment and computers as well as the supply of laboratory equipment for
better on-site quality control of works. The project is progressing well, with policy reform
and restructuring being implemented faster than foreseen and with disbursements well ahead
of schedule.



-7-
Chapter II. THE ROADS SUBSECTOR
A. Administrative Framework
2.1   Administrative, operational and financing responsibility for the Polish road network
depends on road category. There are four different categories as summarized below in Table
2.1:
Table 2.1: ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCING RESPONSIBILITY
NETWORK LENGTH (1000 km)
Source
of Budget          Road Category      Total         Rural        Built-up Areas
Government         National           45.5           38.2               7.3
Voivodship        128.8         114.9               13.9
Local              Local council      170.0         137.1              32.9
administrations
Enterprises        Industrial          19.8          18.2               16
Total                                364.1         308.4               55.7
National roads are administered by GDDP. The organization consists of a central
administration in Warsaw and 17 regional administrations (DODP) to implement the
investment and maintenance activities. Each of the DODPs is defined geographically, and
comprises one or more of the 49 voivodships. The local administration and execution of
DODP's activities is carried out by district road units of which there is a total of 171. The
voivodships also use the services of the DODPs for maintenance and construction works on
major rural voivodship roads and then compensate GDDP from their own budgets. GDDP's
involvement is thus greater than indicated by the length of the national network. Roads and
streets in certain major urban areas, which are not a part of the state or voivodship networks,
are administered by city councils.
2.2   Prior to 1991, Poland's road and bridge construction industry consisted of nine major
national enterprises together with a network of smaller enterprises, which were part of the 17
DODPs. At each DODP, there were usually three or four road construction enterprises and



one bridge enterprise, which executed contracts according to negotiated unit rates, although
in practice most rates were taken from a published list. The national enterprises were free to
bid for work throughout Poland, and one of them, Dromex, bid for and executed a
substantial number of large contracts overseas. Dromex traditionally recruited engineers
from within the state and district enterprises for one or two contracts at a time. As a result,
there is a corps of engineers spread throughout the enterprises with overseas experience in
competitive bidding and contract management. In 1991, all 238 enterprises were
corporatized and separated from GDDP as outlined in para 1.5. The enterprises will
eventually be privatized, though there is no timetable at present. No salaries are being paid
by MTME, and all are dependent on winning contracts, for which they are free to bid on
anywhere in Poland. Starting on July 1, 1992 all GDDP contracts having a value of more
than $5000 were required to be put out for competitive bidding. Assistance to the enterprises
will be provided within the framework of the Bank's Privatization and Restructuring Project.
This assistance will be in the form of sector specific studies, with Terms of Reference
acceptable to the Bank, which will describe the existing situation and outline options which
the Government could pursue. Consultants, hired by the Ministry of Ownership Change,
will manage the studies. It was agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank a plan for
restructuring and privatization of the former GDDP road and bridge construction enterprises
(and of the former PKS road transport enterprises), not later than December 31, 1993 (paras.
1.5 and 5.1.i). In the meantime, MTME will be encouraging restructuring and the formation
of joint ventures with foreign firms. The ministry will also promote the formation of an
industry association, and if successful, TA to the association could be financed through the
Bank's Private Enterprise Development Project (Loan 3467-POL). The changes in GDDP
staff are summarized below:
Table 2.2: CHANGES IN GDDP STAFF
1991               1992
Unit                                Employees          Employees
GDDP, headquarters                        130                 125
Bureau of Planning                         50                  80
17 Regional Offices (DODP)              2.670               5.046
Central + regional administration       2,850               5,251
Maintenance units                      54.550               7.623
Total                                  57,400              12,874
The organizational chart of GDDP is shown in Annex 3.



-9-
B. Traffic
2.3   Traffic data is obtained through annual traffic counts and through a nationwide road
traffic census held every 5 years. The most recent one dates from 1990. Between censuses,
growth estimates based on data from automatic counts are used to provide annual updates of
traffic levels. Traffic levels are still modest compared to West European ones. The highest
flows are in the 10-15,000 range and these occur only on a few sections of roadway in the
vicinity of major urban agglomerations. Table 2.3 below summarizes traffic on different
types of national roads over the period 1985-1990.
Table 2.3: TRAFFIC VOLUMES FOR MOTOR VEHICLES ON NATIONAL ROADS
BY ROAD CATEGORY - 1985 AND 1990
Type of Road                           ------------------AADT C
1985    Annual Increase  I990
E-roads                               4,550        7.1%         6,400
Main roads b                           3,400       6.5%         4,650
Remaining national roads             1300          1.5%         1.400
Average                                1,850       4.0%         2,250
a/    4,846 km of roads of international importance.
b/    11,234 km of the most important national roads, including E-roads.
c/    Annual Average Daily Traffic
The greatest increases in traffic volume have taken place on the international roads. These
have increased by more than 40% since 1985. Traffic growth on the main roads has also
generally been considerably higher than on the remaining national roads, where traffic
increased by some 10% in the same period. About 1/3 (14,500 km) of the national road
network carries traffic below 1,000 vehicles per day (vpd) - primarily on the regional roads.
Nearly 80% of the regional roads carry under 2,000 vpd. The corresponding figures for the
main network and the E-network are 17% and 2%. A major share of the main road network
- about 60% - carries traffic volumes between 2,000 and 6,000 vpd. AADT levels for the E-
roads between 4,000 and 10,000 vpd are found on about 62% of the network. 14% of the
E-roads, only about 680 km, carry traffic volumes higher than 10,000 vpd.



- 10 -
C. Road Network
2.4   The national network (see map IBRD 23783-Poland) consists mainly of undivided 2-
lane roads. There are about 1,160 km of four-lane highways, of which 245 km are
motorways with controlled access and grade separated intersections. In addition, there are
105 km of expressways with two lanes and restricted access. The rest is made up of two-
lane roads with varying standards and conditions. Most of the road network consists of 6 or
7 m single carriageway roads with or without hard shoulders (Annex 6). In light of the
increasing traffic volumes, the mixture of traffic found on Polish roads, and the fact that
budget constraints have slowed down road improvement efforts, certain road sections are
experiencing increasing capacity and security problems, especially on sections close to urban
or industrial centers, and the resurfacing cycle is lengthening. Few major cities have ring
roads, and in many urban areas, traffic capacity is approaching its upper limit.
2.5   The entire national road network, along with 85% of voivodship roads and 37% of
the local road network, is paved; for the entire network this implies a paved portion of 61%.
In 1990, the Bank carried out a highway survey regarding the condition of the main road
networks in six Eastern European countries, including Poland. According to this survey,
only about 1/3 of the national road network in Poland was characterized as being in good
condition. The latest GDDP survey in 1991 estimates that about 6,800 km of national roads
require resurfacing and 4,100 km need strengthening. As axle loads increase, this figure will
rise. The Pavement Management System (PMS) being developed under the ongoing First
Transport Project is designed to provide data for planning road strengthening programs.
2.6   There are about 29,000 bridges located on the Polish road network, totalling some
520 km. Around 180 bridges are more than 200 m. long. Close to half of the bridges in
Poland were destroyed during the Second World War, and in the following decade, damaged
bridges were repaired or replaced by temporary structures. Some 45 km of bridges are still
"temporary structures" mostly wooden and 78 km do not meet current standards for
clearance or loading. There is thus an important backlog of repairs and replacement of
deteriorated and inadequate bridges.
2.7   The present country-wide legal axle load is 8 tons, but the inter-regional network of
10,300 km is being strengthened to a 10 ton standard. At the present time, 430 km remain to
be strengthened. Strengthening to 10 tons is also taking place on part of the regional
network. Current works are being designed to a 10 ton standard. However there is
inadequate data on actual axle loads and higher axle loads are expected from increasing
international traffic. To monitor the situation and to provide data for policy change, a
network of 24 weighing/counting/classifying stations is being established by GDDP under the
First Transport Project. This data will also be used for pavement design for works financed
under the proposed project. In order to have a basis for a decision on future axle load



- 1 1 -
policy, MTME will prepare a policy paper, the Terms of Reference for which will be agreed
with the Bank, to be completed and discussed with the Bank before June 30, 1994 (para.
5. .ii)
D. Traffic Safety
2.8   The number of road accidents in Poland is very high; some 8,000 deaths were
recorded in 1991. This rate is quite disproportionate with the country's volume of traffic,
putting Poland among the worst performers with respect to road safety in Europe. About 9
deaths occurred per 100 million vehicle kilometers, which is more than 3 times worse than
the average in Western Europe, and more than 6 times worse when compared with the more
advanced countries.
2.9   There is a large number of administrative entities involved in road safety in Poland
today, but none of them is responsible for an overall approach to road safety; each entity
only deals with part of the problem. There is no overall road accident prevention plan and
very little or no coordination between the entities involved. Under present conditions, there
are two administrative changes which are prerequisites for effective action to improve road
safety: (a) within the Govemment, there has to be a Minister with overall responsibility for
all aspects of road safety; and (b) a high level civil servant to the post of Road Safety
Coordinator to head a small unit attached to the Minister in charge of and responsible for
developing, supervising and coordinating government policy and for establishing
administrative and coordinating structures. The Government is aware of the problem and has
indicated its willingness to proceed along the lines recommended by a Bank/EC Road Safety
Study. The project supports measures to improve road safety (para. 3.6).
E. Road Planning
2. 10 Highway sector policy in Poland is set by MTME, which in 1992 promulgated a
Statement of Aims and Intentions. The objectives of the proposed project are guided by this
statement, which pledges the Government's best efforts, inter alia, to arrest the decline of the
maintenance budget and to increase road user charges to promote a fuller shouldering of the
financing burden by the road user, to introduce economic evaluation as a criterion in
investment project selection, and to improve road safety. The statement also promises to give
priority to maintenance, strengthening, and modernization, over new construction. The task
of translating policy into planning is the responsibility of the Road Planning and
Development Bureau (BPRSD). Though not part of GDDP, it functions as its planning
department, and has a staff of about 80, consisting mostly of engineers and planners. It has
good contacts with the DODPs and a reasonable database is maintained on road conditions,
bearing capacity, traffic and accidents etc. through contacts with other agencies and



- 12 -
institutes. The development of a Pavement Management System (PMS), ongoing under the
First Transport Project, will considerably eihance planning capacity. Translating this
strategy into BPRSD's work program has resolved into three principal objectives:
bringing the 4,600 km of primary network to a minimum bearing capacity of
10 tons;
bringing all class 1 and class 2 roads to at least design cross section type 3
(see Annex 6);
providing bypasses around urban areas where serious congestion and
environmental problems occur.
BPRSD in conjunction with the DODPs identifies priority projects for the modernization
program on a five year rolling basis, and either oversees design by the DODPs in house, or
assists DODPs to negotiate contracts with consultants. Economic criteria have not been
widely used for program selection in the past, though the competency exists. GDDP and
IBDM have been developing their capacity for economic and environmental analyses of
projects, adapting their methods to the Bank's requirements. Procedures and presentation
have been discussed and agreed during appraisal. Although the professional skills are by and
large available for developing a national road plan, this has been hampered by i) the lack of
a Government strategy regarding road priorities, and ii) the unpredictablity and sharp
reduction of the road budgets during recent years (para. 2. 11). Prompted by the policy
statement, the project addresses both of these questions (paras. 3.10, 3.12 and 5. 1.ix).
F. Road Expenditures and Budgets
2.11  The national roads are financed from the central budget and GDDP has the
responsibility to plan, supervise and provide funds for construction and maintenance of the
national road network. Table 2.3 (next page) shows the development of funds in real terms
during the period 1986-1991.
2.12  The trend in maintenance expenditure is of special concern. There is no doubt that
there is an urgent need to secure increased funds for maintenance activities, not only to be
able to restore roads that have already deteriorated, but also to prevent further deterioration
of roads presently in good condition. If budgets are not increased, structural deterioration
will take place which in the long term will require funds substantially higher than levels
needed today. It is estimated that the long term average need for merely maintaining the
existing national road network is in the range of US$350 million per year. This is based on
the findings of a study of the Polish National Road Network carried out by the Danish Road
Directorate in 1992 and agrees well with the findings of BPRSD's own study. Of this
amount, about half should be allocated to current roads maintenance, a third to rehabilitation,



- 13 -
about 10% to winter maintenance and roughly 10% to bridge maintenance and rehabilitation.
Although these figures are subject to some degree of uncertainty because of the lack of a
properly functioning road condition monitoring system and also because unit price levels
have not yet established themselves, they reflect a consensus of various approaches and
professional opinions for maintenance of the National Road Network. The size of the gap
between present funds and basic needs is such that the 1991 budget must be roughly doubled,
merely to meet maintenance and administration needs. Agreement on an increase of the
GDDP budget is part of the project (paras. 3.10 and 5.1.ix).
Table 2.4: EXPENDITURES ON NATIONAL ROADS 1986-1991
(1991 PRICE LEVEL)
(in Billions Zloty)
1986    1987    1988    19      1M99    1991
Construction of
New Roads & Bridges        925      959   1,408   1,205     877     509
Modernization '
Roads                   1,557   1,690   1,672   1,023   1,882      388
Bridges                   225     213     233      277     466     244
Maintenance and
Admininistration b
Roads (includ. adm.)    6,478   6,354   5,102   4,120   3,142   1,730
Bridges                   279     252     233     226      187     270
Total                     9,464   9,468   8,648   6,851   6,554   3,141
Total million US$          823      823     752     596     570     273
Index 1986 = 100           100      100      91      72      69      33
The total level of funds available for national roads has declined drastically during the past 5
years. Expenditures in 1991 only amounted to about 1/3 of expenditure levels in 1986 and
1987.
a/    Modernization includes strengthening, pavement widening, hard shoulders, bypasses
and intersection treatments.



- 14 -
b/    Current maintenance of roads and bridges. Winter activities. Pavement
rehabilitation, including resurfacing by surface dressing or asphaltic overlays up to
5cm thickness.
G. Road User Charges and Taxation
2.13  Road users in Poland pay various taxes associated with road use. The revenue
directly linked to road use and vehicle operations are: (i) turnover tax on vehicles; (ii)
vehicle registration fees; (iii) driver licensing fees; (iv) fuel taxes; and (v) fees from
international road transport concessions. All revenues from these sources go to the state
budget except the driver licensing fees, which are levied by the municipalities. There is no
earmarking of these taxes for road purposes. The total 1991 revenue amounted to about
111012 ZL, or about one billion US$. More than 90% of this comes from the fuel tax.
2.14  Retail prices (December 1992) for vehicle fuels are (per liter):
Ty.pe                Price in ZL        of which tax
Gasoline '86              7900                4713
Gasoline '94              8000                4593
Diesel                    6100                3138
The tax structure is similar to an average West European structure with tax rates of around
60%. Although prices are lower than in Westem Europe, they are well above border prices.
The lower prices are mainly caused by the base costs on which taxes are calculated, which
are below world market prices and stem from the sometimes opaque arrangements of the
barter deals with Russia as well as from the different cost structures of the Polish refineries
and the distribution network. The government has consistently been raising the taxes on
vehicle fuels towards European levels, which has been in accordance with Bank advice.
2.15  There are presently no road tolls in Poland. There are plans to finance motorways
from toll revenues and a law is being prepared which will allow the MTME to grant
concessions for construction and exploitation of motorways, including the levying of tolls and
allowing for foreign capital participation. It is doubtful, however, given the still relatively
low traffic volumes, whether this can be a major source of financing in the near future.
Although increased cost recovery from road users is highly necessary, experience generally
shows that substantial government financing or guarantees will be necessary and that toll and
concessionary arrangements are not necessarily the best solutions.



- 15 -
Chapter III THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1   The overall objective of the project is to continue the support for the modernization
and transformation of the sector started under the First Transport Project. The project would
focus on the national road network and the administration responsible for it, GDDP. More
specifically the project would support:
-     Improvement of the national road network;
-     Development of modern management tools in GDDP through a continuation of
the Bank's support started under the First Transport Project;
-     Introduction of competitive bidding for road works;
-     Improvement of the road traffic safety situation;
-     The development of modem combined transport systems.
B. Project Descfiption
3.2   The project components are summarized below and described in more detail in the
following paragraphs.
Proiect Description
(a)   Policy: The Government will develop and implement policies covering:
-     adequate maintenance and strengthening of high-priority roads and bridges,
including the availability of adequate budgets; (paras. 2.12 and 3. 10)
-     planning, project evaluation and investment selection techniques and
competitive bidding procedures for execution of works;
-     road safety.
(b)   Investments and Institutions: A portion of GDDP's 1993-97 investment program in
the following areas would be financed from the loan: rehabilitation, upgrading,
realignment or resurfacing of priority road sections, emergency bridge reconstruction
and repair, road safety measures; and technical assistance, studies and training of
GDDP and contractors' staff. The project would also include: (a) a road safety
program; and (b) a pilot project for the development of combined transports through
the establishment of a company, comprising existing transport enterprises, which
would operate a number of terminals.



- 16 -
Road and Bridge Modernization Program
3.3   GDDP's 1993-97 investment program is of an indicative nature because of the volatile
budgetary situation. It is an internal planning document which is updated yearly. Each year,
agreement will be reached between the Polish authorities and the Bank on the items to be
financed through the project for the following year (para. 3.12). This selection will be based
on economic criteria, requiring a minimum ERR of 12% provided that other criteria
regarding the environment and safety are met. Individual contracts will be selected
according to some or all of the following criteria:
O     must conform to the policy statement;
O     must provide for improvement in either bearing capacity, pavement cross
section, or traffic capacity, to MTME's standards (para. 2.10);
O     must show a minimum ERR of 12 percent;
o     should bring significant improvement to an accident black spot, or eliminate
an environmental hazard by, for example, reconstructing a dangerous
intersection, or improving drainage;
O     must provide relief in cases of serious structural failure, or unacceptable
congestion.
Key sections of principal national highways will be strengthened or improved, by asphaltic
concrete overlays, with associated widening or shoulder improvement where justified, and in
certain cases, by-passing congested urban areas. Elimination of accident blackspots, difficult
passages through towns, or other deficiencies in normal safety features, e.g. guard railing,
reflectorized line markings, etc. will be included. Most sections are expected to be carrying
over 5,000 vehicles per day. Annex 4 shows the present list of GDDP's improvement
projects for the 1993-97 period with estimated rates of return, from which the contracts to be
financed under the project will be selected, and Annex 5 the first year's program. These
lists have been arrived at through interaction between the regional and central road
administrations. Following submission of proposals by the DODPs based on general
engineering and safety criteria such as pavement condition, accident rates, traffic volumes,
capacity constraints, etc. a short list was drawn up by BPRSD for economic analysis by
IBDM. It has been agreed that all major GDDP investments, i.e. those above US$5 million,
regardless of financing source, should show an ERR of not less than 12% (para. 5. 1.iii).
Contracts will be let in the early Spring of 1993, 1994, and 1995. GDDP has been
developing its capacity for economic and environmental analysis of projects, adapting its
methods to the Bank's requirements. Procedures and presentation have been discussed and
agreed during appraisal. The first year's program and the timing of bidding was agreed at
Negotiations (para. 5.1 .iv and Annex 5). The following years' programs will be agreed on
during the annual budget reviews (para. 3.10).



- 17 -
Bridges
3.4   There is a serious backlog of major bridge repairs. In some cases repairs are needed
due to poor quality materials used in the original construction. The program will include
repair or reconstruction of high priority bridges, and in some cases, the construction of a
new permanent structure to replace "temporary" bridges, many of which have been in place
for extended periods. Initial selection will be made using GDDP's bridge management
system, with final selection being made based on danger of collapse or closure, lengths of
detours to next crossing points, load restrictions, traffic levels and percentage of heavy
vehicles. An ERR will be calculated for each bridge and final selection will be agreed with
the Bank for each year's program together with the same year's road program (para. 3.10).
Contracts will be let in early 1994 and 1995.
Technical Assistance and Training for GDDP
3.5   This component addresses GDDP's ability to plan and manage its activities and
focuses on two areas: management systems and technology. It will begin with a Training
Needs Survey which has been agreed between GDDP, the PHARE team, which was recently
established in MTME for general technical assistance in the transport field, and the Bank.
This survey is expected to be completed in early 1993. Specialist consultants would then
assist GDDP to convert the survey's findings into a training program, to be executed by
GDDP's technical co-operation division, with technical assistance where required. An
element of equipment purchase is foreseen for the equipping of a small training center, and
the program will include overseas courses and visits for selected staff. It will also include
continued assistance and equipment for the development of the Pavement Management
System, begun under the First Transport Project. The project also includes project
management assistance to GDDP (paras. 3.11 and 3.16).
Road Safety Program
3.6   The Bank/EC Road Safety Study (para. 2.9) estimates that there is the possibility to
considerably decrease the number of road accidents if appropriate steps, accompanied by
adequate administrative measures, are taken. These would include:
*     designating a member of government with overall responsibility for road traffic
safety;
*     establishment of the post of Road Safety Coordinator and the establishment of
the Road Safety Unit;
*     technical assistance and training for the Road Safety Unit to develop a
coherent plan to reduce road accidents;
*     major public awareness and education campaigns;
*     equipment for the traffic police to supervise and enforce traffic regulations;



- 18 -
*     accident black spot elimination projects.
The Government has expressed its agreement with the proposed measures but the level of
financial commitments has not yet been decided. Based on agreements reached during the
appraisal mission and for purposes of project processing and procurement planning, it is
assumed that Bank financing would be about $5 million and essentially cover technical
assistance, equipment and materials. Based on the Road Safety Study's recommendations, a
preliminary Road Safety Action Plan was discussed, the final version of which will be
presented to the Bank by February 28, 1993 (para. 5. l.vii). Based on this document,
agreement will be reached regarding the Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
and Training component, and the list of equipment to be procured (para. 5.1 .vi). The
administrative arrangements to handle road safety issues have been agreed (para. 5. l.vii) and
the naming of a member of Government as Road Safety Coordinator with overall
responsibility for road traffic safety, to be assisted by a high level civil servant, has been
confirmed.
Combined Transport Development
3.7   The lack of combined transport has been identified as an important impediment to a
more efficient transport system in Poland. The study carried out under the First Transport
Project (para. 1.7) concluded that lack of installations or equipment was not the main issue
but rather the absence of an adequate organizational structure capable of efficiently
promoting and marketing combined transport services. It also concluded that since the
uncertainties surrounding the development of combined transport in Poland are significant,
the best way to proceed would be through a relatively inexpensive Pilot Project. The study
therefore recommended the establishment of a commercial enterprise, functioning as a
marketing and sales organization for existing transport companies. This enterprise, named
Polkombi, has been established as a joint stock company by 13 companies with commercial
interests in promoting combined transports. Polkombi has the objective to offer commercial
combined transport services by coordinating the services of the companies associated with it.
It will also act as counterpart to foreign combined transport companies. The project would
support Polkombi through: (a) technical assistance; and (b) equipment. The technical
assistance is aimed at supporting the development of: (i) operational and sales procedures;
(ii) quality controls with quantifiable service levels parameters; (iii) standard agreements for
subcontracting tasks; (iv) quality and liability standards to be met by applicant
subcontractors; (v) other technical assistance as required for starting operations. It is
foreseen that for the TA specified above, 72 man-months of Polish and 18 man-months of
foreign consulting services will be needed. The equipment component would be aimed at the
companies participating as Polkombi owners for upgrading their enterprises in order to
improve the quality or increase the capacity of the type of services rendered to Polkombi.
The support will be in the form of loans from Polkombi to its participating members. The
project will provide Polkombi with the expertise to appraise the investment requests and the



- 19 -
funds for loans to be issued. The requests for loans are foreseen to be for rather small items
such as the purchase of special spreaders for container lifting, refurbishment of cranes,
purchase of forklift trucks, purchase of container servicing equipment, training of truck
drivers, fencing and illumination of terminals, telecommunication facilities, etc. The
executing agency of the Combined Transport component would be Polkombi. The loan
amount would be US$2 million (US$0.5 million and US$1.5 million for the technical
assistance and equipment respectively). These amounts would be onlent from MTME to
Polkombi, who would charge commercial rates when the funds were onlent to its partners.
C. Design and Engineering
3.8   Overall management of the modernization program is being co-ordinated by the
Planning Bureau, BPRSD, the DODPs and local consultants, who will be selected through
procedures following Bank guidelines. Designs are prepared from project dossiers drawn up
by BPRSD and the respective DODP, and follow GDDP's standards, shown in Annex 6.
These are close to Western European standards, and there would be no appreciable benefit
obtained by changing them. Pavement thickness design is similar to what is used in France
with the procedure being revised to include actual axle loads using data provided from the
new weighing stations. As part of the US Govemment's Strategic Highway Research
Program's (SHRP) co-operative extension program, up to 10 test sections of experimental
pavement will be incorporated into appropriate construction contracts and will be monitored
by the DODP's/IBDM. All test sections will be adjacent to permanent
counting/classifying/WIM stations established under the First Transport Project to provide
comprehensive traffic and axle load data. Cooperation with SHRP is on an informal basis
and involves no financing or commitment from the US Government.
D. Cost Estimates
3.9   The total project cost (including contingencies, taxes and duties where applicable) is
estimated to be about $297 million of which all but about $2 million for the combined
transport pilot project and $7.6 million for the road safety program', which will involve
MTME, would be for the GDDP components. The direct and indirect foreign exchange cost
is estimated at about $150 million. Updated cost estimates were confirmed at Negotiations
(para. 5.1 .viii). There is so far only limited experience with price levels under competitive
bidding, but it is expected that they will be at least 15% lower than GDDP's current rate
schedule. A summary of the cost estimates is given below and Annex 7 shows the estimated
1/    This amount does not include the cost of black spot elimination projects, which is
included in civil works contracts.



- 20 -
project costs in more detail. The base costs include 10% physical contingencies on technical
assistance items, but the cost of other items are treated as program budgets. Taxes levied on
civil works contracts at 7.5 % will account for $20 million. All costs are given in US
dollars, and inflation has been applied over the expected duration of each item at 3.8% per
annum.
Table 3.1 Project Cost Estimate
(in US$ Million)
Component                Foreign           Local            Total
Road & Bridge Works                     140.9            143.9            284.8
Project Management                        0.6             0.2               0.8
Institutional Development                 1.5             0.1               1.6
Road Safety Program                       5.0             2.6              7.6
Combined Transports                       2.0             0.0               2.0
Grand Total                             150.0           146.8            296.8
(of which contingencies)                (13.9)          (13.5)           (27.4)
E. Financing
3. 10 The proposed Bank loan of $150 million would finance the full foreign exchange cost,
estimated at about 50% of the road and bridge rehabilitation costs. It would also finance
100% of the training and consulting services, the Road Safety Program and the Combined
Transport Pilot Project. The loan would be to the Government of Poland. The
Government's contribution to the cost of the project would be provided:
(a)   through GDDP's budgets for GDDP components;
(b)   through MTME's budgets for the Combined Transport Pilot and the
Road Safety components.
The proposed financing plan is as follows:



- 21 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
|___ _  Foreign             Local                Total
Govemment                         0.0                146.8               146.8
IBRD                            150.0                  0.0               150.0
TOTAL                           150.0                146.8               296.8
Financing arrangements and the availability of sufficient and timely counterpart funds for the
project have been confirmed. Specifically, it was confirmed that: (a) the Government would
make best efforts to increase gradually, in accordance with budgetary capabilities,
expenditures for national road maintenance, in a manner and to levels that are technically and
economically justified; and (b) ensure that budgetary expenditures for national road
maintenance in 1993 and thereafter, will be given the highest priority within GDDP's budget,
and that investments, except in emergencies and other specially justified circumstances, will
be undertaken after the above mentioned priority is satisfied. In addition, agreement was
reached on a Government Road Sector Development Statement, outlining a proposed
implementation schedule for the following areas:
*     GDDP's budgets
*     Road user charges
*     Road sector expenditure priorities
-     Motorway program financing.
Agreements were also reached on the annual consultation and review process regarding the
implementation of the above statement (paras. 3.12 and 5. l.x).
F. Implementation and Monitoring
3.11 The existing Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) set up in MTME under the First
Transport Project will act as the overall coordinator of the project. GDDP will manage the
road and bridge works program, its training program, and its share of road safety activities.
GDDP will appoint a Project Coordinator with sufficient staff and office facilities for this
purpose. The Project Coordinator will be assisted during at least the first year by a two
person team, consisting of an engineer and an accountant with experience in management of
this type of project, including procurement procedures for Bank financed contracts. The



- 22 -
road and bridge works program would be managed through the DODPs. With the wealth of
experience gained during the execution by force account of large investment projects up to
the mid 80's, GDDP and the DODPs are considered capable of executing the proposed
project, but provision could be made in the project for project management consultants, to
include up to three roving resident engineer advisers. These specialists would be required for
a short time only and would advise DODP staff on aspects of contract management with
which they may be unfamiliar, particularly payments and claims. They would attend site
meetings, and provide strength to GDDP's team in disputes with foreign contractors. Already
during project preparation a series of one week residential courses was organized for GDDP
staff and for managers in the former GDDP enterprises on prequalification, bidding, contract
documents and management, and on cash flow calculations and payments. The cut off date
for the signature of civil works contracts will be June 30, 1995. Contracts signed after this
date would not be eligible for disbursement except as the Bank may otherwise agree. The
Project Completion Date will be December 1998, and the Loan Closing Date June 30, 1999.
An implementation schedule is given in Annex 8 and an estimated schedule of disbursements
in Annex 9. These dates and the schedule are based on the EMENA Transportation Project
disbursement profile.
3.12 To monitor progress and to agree on the following year's program, there would be
annual meetings between the Polish authorities and the Bank prior to December 1 of each
year, starting in 1993 (para. 5.1 .x). Supervision of contracts will be the responsibility of the
DODPs in the first instance, who will request monthly payments to be made from GDDP
headquarters where the project coordinators office would arrange for payment to be made.
G,DDP's project management team will include an accountant/systems manager having
previous experience with internationally funded projects of this nature. He/she will establish
the systems and procedures for financial control of expenditure, and for making quick and
efficient payments to contractors.
G. Procurement
3.13  Procurement of the Bank financed elements of the project will be carried out as
shown in the table below:



- 23 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT METHOD
(US$ MILLION) a/
COMPONENT    ICB   (loan)b/   OTHER   (loan)  NBF e/  TOTAL  (loan)
Civil Works      266.9      133.4                       10.4    277.3  133.4
Consultant Serv.                     8.0 d/    8.0         -      8.0    8.0
Equipment and      4.5        4.5    0.8 c/    0.8         -      5.3    5.3
Materials
IDTA                                 2.6 c/    2.6       2.9      5.5    2.6
Training                             0.7 d/    0.7         -      0.7    0.7
TOTALS    L           271.4  137.9     12.1   12.1      13.3    296.8  150.0
a/ including contingencies and taxes
b/ figures in (loan) column are amounts to be financed from loan
c/ intemational shopping
d/ in accordance with Consultants' guidelines
e/ not Bank financed
All procurement for GDDP will be carried out by GDDP itself following the Bank
Guidelines of May 1992. Procurement for the Traffic Safety component (items outside of
GDDP), as well as for Polkombi, will be carried out by Ferpol, the agency responsible for
most of the procurement under the First Transport Project. As this is the first Bank project
in Poland involving civil works, effort has been put into helping GDDP train its staff for ICB
in civil works. A set of standard documents is being prepared, based on the IBRD Sample
Bidding Documents, with a few minor changes to suit Polish practice. These documents will
be used after the Bank's review and clearance (para. 5. 1.xiii). A prequalification
questionnaire and evaluation procedures have been agreed, and the invitation to prequalify
was published in August 1992. A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet been
produced by Poland. Since all civil works procurement under the loan will be according to
ICB Guidelines using the Bank sample documents, the lack of such a report is not an obstacle
for procurement of civil works. The project includes the establishment of a Project
Coordinator's Office, with foreign TA which will establish project monitoring and accounting
systems as well as procurement administration procedures. This office will be responsible
for recording procurement information and forwarding all signed contracts to the Bank. A
project implementation schedule appears as Annex 8.



- 24 -
Civil Works
3.14  The road modemization program, which comprises 90 percent of total project cost,
will be bid under ICB Guidelines in three groups of contracts in time for a start of work in
April 1993, 1994 and 1995. Contracts will be let to prequalified bidders. As the results of
the prequalification exercise become available and as more design work is completed,
decisions will be made about contract size distribution and the amount of subcontracting.
Equipment
3.15  Equipment will be procured under the project for:
(a)   the GDDP training center and project management;
(b)   the pavement management program;
(c)   the road safety program; and
(d)   Polkombi, the combined transport company.
Specifications and quantities under items (a) and (b) will be determined by GDDP with the
advice of the respective consultants when they have been recruited, and will be mainly office
technology or specialist equipment to be purchased through international shopping (IS), with
a value per contract not to exceed $200,000 up to an aggregate amount of $800,000, using
three quotations from at least two eligible countries. Items to be procured under (c) and (d)
will be determined as the respective programs are developed. The bulk of the equipment
will be purchased through ICB, except that certain items for which there are only a small
number of potential suppliers worldwide with a value per contract not to exceed $200,000
up to an agregate amount of $3,000,000 may be purchased through Limited International
Bidding(LIB), inviting at least five bids. Goods under any of categories (a) through (d)
which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature, may be procured through direct
negotiations under conditions acceptable to the Bank, up to a maximum of $600,000 for all
such contracts. All equipment procurement will follow Bank Guidelines. Domestic preference
will be given to domestic manufacturers as provided by the Guidelines.
3.16 Technical Assistance and Consultant Services will be procured following Bank
Guidelines for consultants. Some TA may become available from other sources free of
charge in which case Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement would be adjusted. There are five
categories of consulting services:
(a)   civil works design ($7.5 million), (para. 3.8). The number of design contracts
will be decided in parallel with the definition of the annual programs. For the
first year's program, design was completed by negotiations;
(b)   assistance for project management ($0.5 million), (paras. 3.11 and 3.13);



- 25 -
(c)   training for GDDP in various aspects of institutional development and
technology ($0.9 million), (para. 3.5);
(d)   specialist assistance for establishing institutional capacity in road safety ($1.3
million), (para. 3.6); and
(e)   management assistance and training for establishment of expertise in operation
of a combined transport operation ($0.5 million), (para. 3.7).
The training component addresses GDDP's planning and managerial capabilities. It is
estimated at about $1.6 milllion and is described in para. 3.5.
3.17 All bidding documents for civil works will be subject to prior review by the Bank, as
will all specifications and documents for purchase of equipment. Items costing less than
US$100,000, estimated to comprise less than 3% of equipment purchases, would be reviewed
prior to the first disbursement. Proposals for the engagement of consultants would be
reviewed in accordance with Bank Guidelines. GDDP has some experience with Bank
financed procurement from the ongoing First Transport Project. This will be strengthened
through the Project Coordinator's Office (paras. 3. 11 and 3.13) which will also include
foreign consultants. In addition, GDDP is planning to include a component in procurement
administration in its training program for an adequate number of its staff.
H. Disbursements
3.18 The proceeds of the loan amounting to US$150 million, will be disbursed as follows:



- 26 -
Percent of
Expenditures
Category        Item               Allocation   to be Financed
(US$ Million)
1     Civil Works               119.1   50%
2     Equipment and               4.9   100% of foreign or 100% of
Materials                         local (ex-factory, net of taxes
and duties)
3     Consulting Services and     10.0   100%
TA
4     Training                     0.8   100%
5     Unallocated                 15.2
TOTAL                     150.0
A schedule of estimated disbursements based on the historical profile for the region is
included in Annex 9. The Project Monitoring Unit in MTME has gained considerable
experience in disbursements for equipment purchases during the current project but training
will be required for civil works contracts. To facilitate quick payments to contractors and to
avoid cash flow problems, a Special Account will be established in a bank to be agreed upon,
with an initial allocation of $9 million (para. 5. 1.xiii). Retroactive financing of design costs,
up to a limit of $5 million, limited to the period after appraisal i.e. July 15, 1992, may be
required as permitted by OD 12.10. Contracts with a value below US$4 million may be
handled through Statements of Expenditure. Payments with respect to Polkombi shall be
made only after a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been entered into
between the Borrower and Polkombi. With respect to the Traffic Safety and Training
Programs, payments shall be made only after the content and detailed implementation
schedule of each of such activities shall have been approved by the Bank (para. 5.1.xiii).
I. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
3.19   GDDP will report to MTME on the components of the project which it implements.
MTME will coordinate reporting by Polkombi and the Road Safety Program. The Project
Monitoring Unit in MTME, established under the First Transport Project, will compile a
master report from these contributions and forward it to the Bank. The format and timing of
quarterly reports, giving physical and financial progress of the project, has been agreed



- 27 -
(para. 5.1.xii). GDDP and MTME will be required to maintain separate project accounts for
the Bank financed parts of the project, and to have these accounts audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the certified financial statements and the auditor's report
thereon should be provided to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each
financial year (para 5.1.xii).
J. Environmental Impact
3.20 The project has been classified as a "B" under OD 4.00, Annex A, for the road
modemization component, meaning that only limited environmental review will be required.
The civil works are generally improvements to existing roads on their existing alignments; in
most cases they will bring improvements to drainage, less dust and noise, and increased
traffic safety. The Polish Ministry of the Environment has established strict procedures for
reviewing the environmental impact of highway projects which are administered by the
environment department of the voivodships (Annex 10). The legislation establishes levels of
review appropriate to the class of works proposed, ranging from a review of the design
report and drawings through to a full EA, which would be required, for example, in the case
of bypasses on new alignments. The appraisal mission has determined that GOP's
procedures are similar to the Bank's and that EAs will be (and in some cases already have
been) prepared in all the circumstances in which the Bank would require one, and thus the
Bank can have the confidence that compliance with GOP's procedures will also bring
compliance with the Bank's. There is already considerable environmental awareness in
Poland, and the power of the voivodship (local govemment) administrations to exercise
control over central government agencies is used. For this reason it has been agreed that an
environmental clearance with a copy of the EA, if so required, will be a condition of the
Bank's No Objection to invitation to bids.
3.21  Location of asphalt mixing plants and monitoring of their emissions is also tightly
controlled by the voivodships. Attachment 1 to Annex 10 gives the current emission
standards, which are being gradually applied to the existing fixed mixing plants formerly part
of GDDP. These emission standards have been reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable.
These regulations also apply to disposal of construction site spoil, and the annex comments
on the monitoring arrangements.



- 28 -
Chapter IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits
4.1   The benefits of the proposed project would materialize through:
(i)   reduced vehicle operating costs;
(ii)   reduced future costly reconstruction of roads and bridges by timely and
adequate rehabilitation and repair;
(iii) reduced road accidents;
(iv)  reduced road construction costs by exposing local contractors to competition
and
(v)   beginning development of combined transports.
These benefits would accrue to road users in general, individuals as well as transport
enterprises, and their indirect effect would reach an even larger segment of society, such as,
for example consumers of goods transported by road.
B. Rates of Return
4.2   Explicit rates of return have been calculated for road and bridge rehabilitation and/or
strengthening works and are shown in Annex 4. GDDP has not previously used economic
analyses for investment decisions but the methodology is well known and has been
occasionally used. A format for these analyses following well established criteria and
procedures has been developed, discussed and agreed with the Bank. All works to be
financed under the proposed project will have an economic evaluation with an ERR of not
less than 12%. GDDP will prepare these analyses to be submitted as part of the proposed
annual programs to be discussed and agreed with the Bank. Based on experience from
similar projects elsewhere, ERR's of about 20% can be expected for the type of works
included in the project.
4.3   No ERRs have been calculated for the road safety, consultants' services, technical
assistance and training components, the benefits of which cannot be readily quantified in
monetary terms.
C. Project Risks
4.4   The main risk is the availability of adequate budgetary funds for GDDP which are
presently insufficient. The fiscal pressures in Poland are likely to remain such that careful



- 29 -
evaluation of priorities and ongoing discussions on inter and intrasectoral budgetary trade-
offs will continue to be an essential element of Poland's cooperation with the World Bank.
More specifically in the transport sector it is foreseen that GDDP's budget be annually
reviewed and agreed with the Bank. This agreement will depend on the allocation of
sufficient resources, their distribution between maintenance and new construction, and
adequate economic returns for the proposed investments. This same procedure would also
include another potential risk, viz. the sometimes expressed opinion that Poland should
initiate a program of rapid motorway construction, even at the expense of neglecting the
existing network. Because the civil works contracts financed by the project will be let in
annual batches, the possibility of withholding agreement to sign further contracts is a feasible
tool to reduce these risks. Both GDDP's ability to manage the project as well as the
capability of the Polish road construction industry have been noted as potential risks of the
project. There is little previous experience with the type of procurement and contracting
foreseen on the scale in the project. To decrease these risks, various measures, primarily
technical assistance and training, has been included. Also, there has to be close follow-up of
these aspects by supervision missions.



- 30 -
Chapter V: AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1    During loan negotiations confirmation or agreement was reached on the following:
(i)   Government to have prepared a restructuring/privatization plan for former
GDDP road and bridge construction enterprises and for the former PKS road
transport enterprises to be discussed with the Bank not later than December
31, 1993 (paras. 1.5 and 2.2);
(ii)   MTME to prepare a policy statement on axle load policy by June 30, 1994
(para. 2.7);
(iii)  all major GDDP investments (US$5 million or more) regardless of financing
source, to show an ERR of not less than 12% (para. 3.3);
(iv)  first year's road/bridge works program (para. 3.3);
(v)   methodology for bridge reconstruction/rehabilitation economic evaluation
(para. 3.4);
(vi)  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training (paras. 2.7 and
3.6);
(vii)  Road Safety Action Plan and administrative arrangements for road safety
(para. 3.6);
(viii) cost estimates (para. 3.9);
(ix)  Government shall: (a) make best efforts to gradually increase, in accordance
with budgetary capabilities, expenditures for national road maintenance in a
manner and to levels that are technically and economically justified; and (b)
ensure that budgetary expenditures for national road maintenance in 1993 and
thereafter, will be given the highest priority within GDDP's budget, and that
investments, except in emergencies and other specially justified circumstances,
will be undertaken after the above mentioned priority is satisfied; (paras. 2.12
and 3.10);
(x)   Road Sector Development Statement and Annual Consultations (paras. 3.10
and 3.12);
(xi)  arrangements and format of quarterly and audit reports (para. 3.19);
(xii)  format of contracts and ICB documentation (para. 3.13); and
(xiii) Special Account and disbursement conditions (para. 3.18).
5.2    Based on the above agreements the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$150
million equivalent to the Republic of Poland for a term of 17 years including five years of
grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



ANNEX 1
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
Traffic Develooment
Transport
mode              1970   19S0   1982   19S4   1985   1986  l9S7   193!   198&9   1990
------------------- ton-ldometer Cm Million) -------------        _-_
Railways           99.3  134.7  112.7  123.5  120.6  121.8  121.4  122.2  111.1   8335
Road haulage       15.8   44.5   34.0   16.6   36.6   37.0   37.2   39.2   38.4   30.0
Public
trnsport           4.5   11.1    8.4    9.3    9.4    9.6    9.7   10.1    9.5    6.1
Branch
entefprses*        4.2   15.1    9.6    7.9    7.S   11.5   11.2   12.1   10.7    7.2
Own
trasport'          7.1   18.3   16.0   16.8   16.7   15.9   16.2   17.1   1S.3   16.7
Inland
shipping            223    2.3    1.6    1.4    1.4    1.6    15        1.4    1.2    1.0
Air a-ansport                            -      -                  -      -       -       -
Pipelines           7.0   17.1   16.6   17.8   17.0   17.8   18.5   18.6   17.7   13.9
Total             124.4  198.6  164.9  178.8  175.6  178.2  173.6  181.4  168.4  128.4
shipping         106.6  257.4  191.7  193.4  177.S  172.7  197.0  227.2  2123   207.4
' Enterprises screing only particular branches of economy
*Iransport for own needs of non.transport enterprises: Partly estLmaes
- Negligible
------------------ Passengers (millions) -----------         _-_
Railways                  1,056  1,100  1,108  1,036  1,005   990   977   984   952   790
Road transport (bus)      1,374  2,379  2,321  2,439 2,435 2,453 2,487 2,504  2,564  2,064
Air trasport                  1     2      1      2      2     2      2      2      2     2
Inland shipping              8      9      7      6      6     6      7      6      6     4
Total                     2,439  3,490  3,437 3,432  3,449 3,456 3,473  3,496  3,524  2,S60
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Passenger-tm (m1d.) -----------------
Railways                   36.9  46.3  49.3  53.2  52.0  48.5  48.3  52.1  55.9  50.4
Road transport (bus)       29.1  49.2  47.3  52.4  52.1  53.1  54.0  57.1   58.1  46.3
Air transport                0    2.8    1.2   2.6   2.9   3.2   3.3   3.9    4.9   4.4
Inland shipping             0.6   0.1   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1  0.03
Total                      66.7  98.4  97.9  108.3  107.1  104.9  105.7  113.2   119 101.13
Source: Statistical Year Book of Poland, 19S7, 1989, 1991



POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
Transport Sector Administrative Structure
Hilnlstry of Transport
and
Haritime Economy
Pol;h          General               167 Road        General           Inspectorata                                              6 S_ip
State          Dlrectorate          Transport        Inspectoratt    of Inland             3 Naritiflw        4 Shipping         Reparing
Rallways       of Publlc            Companies        of Clvil          Waterway            Ports              Companies           Yards
(P|KP)         Roads (CDOP)                          Aviation          Shipping 
161 SOEs                                              1 SOE              3 SOEs            3J SOEs
2 JSCs            I JSC              3 JSCs
B Regional       17 Regional              A              Polirs          fi Offsoonal
Offices          Offices                   ie             ipot              fie
(LOT)  (PPL)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
General Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP)
Organization Chart
|  |        ~~T*ohno-Eoonom lo
DpreDtor GnGrnl          rCounoll
|  _h n cl o           |Mungar mzn lon                                         Ad milnIst rati1O n
Deputy Dlrootoro Gnenrol                                                                                  _
-------                Planning_                      orwy
Aooountl
Audit
aRod nomoorob                 -- ---                 Brldgoz
|    InotiDuluudget
1 |  lT Dlntrlol
Road Planning *      _Offices
Development Buroau



POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
List of Candidate Projects
Item         Road                                 SectIon                                Length          Cost         Period of construction            IRR [ERR]
Number                                                                          km          mid zi                                             Yx
1        I & 5    Swiecle bypass                                                       13.0         364.0               1993 - 1996                      12.3
2            Z    Border of DODP Szczecin-Tarnowo Podgorne                             38.9           75.9              1993 - 1994                      26.6
3            2    Zakret - Minsk Mazowiecki                                            13.6           66.0              1993 - 1994                       18.5
4            3    Stare Czarnowo - Zabowo /continuation/                               14.8          104.4              1993 - 1995                       12.9
5            3    Zielona Gora bypass /continuation/                                    5.5           98.6              1993 - 1994                      24.4
6            4    Radymno bypass                                                        4.8          115.5              1994 - 1995                       15.4
7            5    Swiecie - Bydgoszcz                                                  32.9           97.9              1995 - 1997                       15.9
8             7    Plonsk - Ostrzykowizna /continuation/                               25.3          295.5              1993 - 1996                       43.9
9            8    Warszawa - Piotrkow Trybunalski                                      29.2          125.8              1993 - 1994                       17.8
10           15    Wojkowice Koscielne - Jezor                                          25.0          145.2              1994 - 1995                       12.3
11           18    Radzymin bypass                                                       8.0          300.0              1994 - 1995                       15.6
12           93    Katowice Drogomnysl                                                  38.8          128.6              1994 - 1995                       17.5
13            -    Trasa Kwiatkowsklego - Gdynia. stage 111                              4.1          337.5              1994 - 1997                       17.0
19.3
14           A4    Golnice - Wroclaw                                                   109.0          910.0              1993 - 1996
Total:                                                      362.9        3164.9                                 .



POEAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS RC3ECT
Proposed 1993 Works ProArag
LENGTH            CONST'N               ERR              EST .CST                       DEscRIPTION
RQAD SECTION  NMAE                             km                 PERIOD                X              US$  ILLIOH                       OF WKIES
1. Plcnsk - Ostrzykowizna                       3.2                1993               43.9                 1.9           Widening of road by addition of
Section 1                                                                                                             second carriageway; grade separation
of two intersections; connection to
existing bridge.
2. Zielona Gora By-pass                          5.6              1993/94             24.4                 7.3           Strengthening of existing pavement
and construction of paved shoulders.
3. Warszawa - Piotrkov Trybunalski               6.7               1993                17.8                2.1           Completion of bypass including
Section 1                                                                                                             important replacement structures and
grade separation on intersection.
4, Zakrat - Minsk Mazowiecki                     6.2               1993                18.5                2.2           Strengthening of pavement and
Section 1                                                                                                             construction of paved shoulders.
5. Swiecie By-pass                              4.8               1993/94              12.3                6.3           Stage 1 of Swiecie bypass/Grade
Section 1                                                                                                            Separation of Gdansk/Bydgoszcz/Torun
roads/Vistula Bridge.
6. Wroclaw - Legnica                            41.2               1993                19.3               19.0           Concrete pavement repair and
Section 1                                                                                                            strengthening, plus shoulder widening
on existing dual carriageway.
TOTAL COST             38.8
:x



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
GDDP Geometric Standards
Principal Design Parameters
Minimum
Design      Lane        Horiz.          Max.
Speed       Width       Radius          Grade
Road Category      Terrain       (km/h)       (mL        (m)             LS)L
Motorways                        120          3.75       1000-700        5,0
100*        3.50        750-500        6,0
Expressways                      120          3.75        1000-700       5,0
100*        3.75-3.50   750-500        6,0
80**       3.50         500-300        6,0
Main Trunk Roads   Flat          100          3.50         750-600       5,0
Rolling       80          3.50         500-350       6,0
Mountainous   70(60)***   3.50         350-250       6,5
(250-180)***
Secondary Roads    Flat           70          3.00         350-250       6,5
Rolling       60          3.00         250-180       7,0
Mountainous   50          3.00         150-120       8,0
* More difficult conditions (e.g. urban areas, hilly terrain etc.)
** very difficult conditions
*** in exceptional circumstances.
Traffic Capacity Levels (30th highest hourly volumes (pcu's))
Road Category                    Rural Sections     Urban Sections
pcu's/hr          pcu's/hr
Motorways    Two lanes: one-way traffic          2 660              same
Three lanes: one-way traffic       3 430              same
Main Roads    Two lanes: two-way traffic          850 - 1 400        1 400
Two lanes: one-way traffic        1850 - 2 050        2 050
Source: HCM - 85 (modified)
Source: BPRSD 1992



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
GDDP Geometn-c Standards
Under modernization program
Standards 1 and 2 are being
O3                                     elimiaated on National Roads.
____________________________j      Standard   Rural   Road   up   to   7000
vehicles per day.
0.
l'o' t  |  -|- Standard Rural Dual
Carriageway (over 7000 v.p.
OROGA EKSPRESOWA
DRO A EKSPRESOWA
M 1z>^t1t;  *,:17  $    .-^.X.51  70 T.M 47.s^.7. ,^- Expressway (partial
grade separation)
AU6OSTRADA
'T  '  ,   ,s  ' Motorway (full grade
Lt I     o I1  I  separated).
Source: BPRSD



POLAND                                  ANNEX 7
ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE 1/
Project Component                  Base      Price      Total    Foreign   Foreign     Local
Cost  Contigencfes   Cost                Cost       cost
---------    US$ 000' s-     -        b -------US$ 000's-----
1. ROAD AND BRIDGE WORKS
- Construction by contract 2/     241,600      25,274   266,874       50    133,437     133,437
- Design by consultants             7,000        500     7,500       100      7,500          0
- Design & Spn by DODP              9,500        994    10,494         0         0       10,494
TOTAL                          258,100      26,768   284,8680            140,937     143,931
2. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
- Technical Assistance               520          19       539       100       539           0
- Equipment                           100          4       104       100        104          0
- GDDP costs                          150         16       166         0         0         166
TOTAL                              770          38       808                 643         166
3. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
- I DTA                              820          44       864       100       864           0
- Equipment                           180          7       187       100        187          0
- Overseas study and travel          400          22       422       100       422           0
- GDDP costs                           85          5        90         0          0         90
TOTAL                             1,485         77     1,562                1,473         90
4. ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
- IDTA                              1,200         65      1,265      100      1,265          0
- Equipment and materials           3,200        174      3,374      100      3,374          0
- Overseas Visits                    300          16       316       100       316           0
- GOP Costs                         2,500        136     2,636         0         0       2,636
TOTAL                            7,200         391     7,591               4,955       2,636
5. COMBINED TRANSPORTS
- IDTA                                480         18       498       100       498           0
- Equipment                         1,430         78      1,508      100      1,508          0
TOTAL                             1,910         95     2,005               2,005           0
GRAND TOTA40 -27,30                                            ...... .Q.. ...
I    Bed on the appreea exchang, rate of USS1 - Zi 13,600. PrIce oontingencies are Included on
aal  components at 3.8 percent por annum, and phystal contingencies on tho TA Item In oomponent.
2-5 at 10 percent. Includes all local taxes.
2  Includes treatmenl of acident black spots
g:iUane\srkI3UFFA7
JAN24 93



POLAND
ROADS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ImDlementation Schedule
Calendar Years
92     93     94     95      96    97    98        99
.Activity
Appraisal-June 1992                          v
Negotiations-Jan. 1993
Board Presentation-March 1993                      v
Project Completion Date-Dec. 31, 1998
Loan Closing Date-June 30, 1999                                                                  v
Civil Works
Prequalification
Invitation to Bid
Contract Execution                                                 -      -
Training & IDTA
Needs Survey
Training Program
Equipment Procurement
Road Safety
Develop Program
Implementation
Equipment Procurement
Combined Transports
Training and Implementation                                      _ -    _ _
Equipment Procurement
00



ANNEX 9
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year          Ouarter Ending                     USS million Eauivalent
93                 June 30, 1993                                  0
94                  September 30, 1993                             2
December 31, 1993                              9
March 31, 1994                               10
June 30, 1994                                 15
95                  September 30, 1994                           21
December 31, 1994                            27
March 31, 1995                                36
June 30, 1995                                45
96                  September 30, 1995                           54
December 31, 1995                            63
March 31, 1996                                72
June 30, 1996                                 81
97                  September 30, 1996                            90
December 31, 1996                            99
March 31, 1997                              105
June 30, 1997                               111
98                  September 30, 1997                          120
December 31, 1997                           129
March 31, 1998                              132
June 30, 1998                               135
99                  September 30, 1998                          141
December 31, 1998                           147
March 31, 1999                              148
June 30, 1999                               150
The Loan Closing Date,will be June 30, 1999.
Source: Mission Estimate, May 1992.
Based on ECA/MENA Transportation Disbursement Profile dated
June 11, 1991.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 7
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROADS PROJECT
Environmental Control and Monitoring
1.          Protection of the environment from the adverse effects of construction activity is
ensured through a number of laws, with monitoring and compliance being the responsibility of
the Environmental Department of the local authority (voivodship) in which the works are
situated. A summary of environmental provisions of selected laws and regulations, prepared by
GDDP is attached to this annex as Attachment 1). Although the voivods (provincial governors),
are appointed by the President, and are therefore agents of central govemment, they and their
administrations usually have a fiercely provincial outlook, and act more like a US state
government would vis a vis the federal government. We understand that they take their
environmental duties seriously.
2.    The following example illustrates how things are changing. Two resurfacing jobs in the
Warsaw area were recently completed by hot in-place recycling, through competitively awarded
contracts. Although the equipment, which complies with very tight Danish environmental
standards, was brought by road from Denmark, the Danish price was still competitive compared
with local contractors, because of the difficulties they would have had with a) temporary siting
of a mobile asphalt plant, and b) the expense of finding an environmentally acceptable location
for the disposal of the old pavement.
Review of Projects
3.    The Polish procedure is similar to O.D.4, Annex E, with the degree of project review
depending on the type of work proposed. Motorways or roads generating noise in residential
areas, roads passing through areas of outstanding natural beauty etc, are subject to close
scrutiny, and a full EA is required; in the case of projects with less damage potential, either a
brief EA is required, or the project dossier is reviewed and discussed with the DODP, and
mitigating actions agreed upon. For each and every contract proposed in the present project the
required procedure will be followed, and the appraisal mission is confident that Polish
procedures are as strict or stncter than the Bank's.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 7
Siting of Asphalt Plants and Control of Emissions.
4.    All asphalt plants must be licensed by the voivodship, who issue permits stating the
restrictions placed upon the licensed site, and who monitor compliance. Many applications are
refused, and emission controls are being applied retroactively to the forty eight established plants
owned by MTME. Present standards (see Attachment 1) call for a maximum of 120 Ag of dust
per m3 of omission during a 24 hour period, and only 60 lsg/Mg in designated areas. All
fixed plants are inspected at least once a year, and more frequently if a complaint is lodged.
In some voivodships, spot checks are made. Sampling instrumentation is becoming increasingly
available following passage of the Environmental Protection (Inspection) Act (DZV.77/91),
which also mandates the retrofiring of emission control devices on existing and new asphalt
plants.
Dis2gosal of Construction Wastes
5.    Bituminous materials and other construction debris must be entirely removed from the
site, and disposed of in a location licensed by the voivodship, who may also specify final
covering and landscaping as a condition of granting a permit, if they wish.



ANNEX 10
Attachment
Page 3 of 7
ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS EFFECTING SITE SELECTION
FOR ROAD INVESTMENTS.
I.   Effective environmental regulations regarding site selection
investments are found in:
1. Statutes:
1.1. of 31. 01. 80 - re: protection and structuring of
environment including amendments of 27. 04. 92;
1.2. of 12. 07. 84 - re: spatial planning (unified text of
28. 02. 89);
1.3. of 24. 10. 74 - re: Construction Law with subsequent
amendments:
1.4. of 24. 10. 74 - re: Water Law with subsequent amendments;
1.5. of 24. 03. 82 - re: farm land and forest areas protection
with subsequent amendments:
1.6. of 21. 03. 85 - re: public roads with subsequent
amendments.
2.   Council of Ministers and Ministers of relevant sectors
regulations and dispositions.
3.   State and sector standards.
II.  ROAD INVESTMENT CLASSIFICATION.
1.   Motor and expresswavs are ranked to be particularly
harmful for people and environment. according to the
disposition of Minister of Environmental Protection,
Natural Resources and Forestrv of 23. 04. 92-
2.   According to the disposition of Council of Ministers the
investments types, areas and order of site location is
covered by amendment to announcement of Minister of
( Spatial and Construction Economy of 16.02.90). - road
investments fall into one of the following categories:
1. national (construction of motor and expressways and
national roads).
Site selection is suggested by Central Planning
Office. Site decision is made by local state admini-
strative body on voivodship level.
2  voivodship (voivodship roads and facilities).
Site selection is suggested by local voivodship state
odr.inlstrative body on voivodship level.
local (investments not mentioned above).
Site selection is suggested and decision made by
county bodies.



ANNEX 10
Attachment
Page 4 of 7
III- PROCEDURES
1. Before the investment decision is made the investor
receives                         guidelines from respective state
administration body.
If the investment may present hazard to human health
or environment it is necessary to attach the
environmental impact assessment prepared by an expert in
this area. The expert is chosen by local state authority
on voivodship level.
2. To the reguest for site selection, if the investment is
to be hazardous for human health or environment, the
investor attaches complex environmental impact assessment.
3. Evaluating road investment impact on environment acceptable
indicators of air, water and soil pollution are considered.
Another considered factor is noise level defined by
regulation mentioned in pt I and presented in Appendix 1&3.
IV.   COORDINATING BODIES-
According to the regulations:
- motor and expressways construction requires clearing with
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry. Ecological assessment can only be prepared by
qualified experts.
- bypass construction and adding of a second carriageway
to all purpose roads requires clearance from voivodship
authorities. In most of the cases it is sufficient to
use studies prepared by designing offices.
- all purpose roads modernization like wearing course, adding
hard shoulders or slow traffic lanes do not require
consultations-
- construction of new road production plants require
clearance from voivodship bodies.
Plants that up to date did not have environmental impact
assessment must obtain such and clear them.
V.   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL regarding road after'the construction
is completed in not carried out as yet.
Production plants are periodically checked by Environmental
Research and Control Centers along the lines of generally
acceoted rules
Encl.: 3 Appendixes



ANNEX 10
Attachment
Page 5 of 7
Appendix I
Acceptable levels of air pollution (acc. to the regulation of Ministry
of Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, of 12.12.1990, regarding air
protection).
Accepted Concentration mg/M3
Normal Areas            Specially protected areas*
Annual                         Annual
Polutant          30 min    24 h       Av       30 min      24 h       Av
1. Sulphur dioxide
until 1998            600      200        32         250        75        11
from 1999             440      150        32         150        75        11
2.  Lead                              1      0.2                   0.5       0.1
3.  Suspended dust                  120       50                     60       40
4.  Carbon Monoxide      5000      1000      120        3000        500       61
5.  Nitrogen dioxide      500       150       50         150        50        30
6.  Hydrocarbons                  Lack of unified indicator
*/ Specially protected areas represent areas of health resorts, resort
protection, national parks, nature reservations in green landscape parks.
NOTE: The table quotes only the substances for which concentration is
calculated in road environment protection studies in 30 min. periods,
and during 2% time annually, for average 24 h concentration.
m:\Iane\annexsar.pol



Oppendi > II
Highest acceptable indicators of sevier pollutants pol lutinq soil arnd
v.ater (acc. to regulation of Ministry of Enrvironment, Natural Resourr P5 aind
Forestry of 5.11.1991, regarding vwater and conditions required of  e
introducing  their rnatters into water & soil)
Poz. Indicator                     Unit               Value
1 Suspended matter             mg/l                50.0
2 ChZT  1/                     mgO2/l             150.0
3 BZT5  2/                     mgO2/1              30.0
4 Petroleoum benzine           mg/l                50.0
extracting
substances
5 Nitrogen                     mgN/l               30.0
6 Phosphorus                   mgP/l                50.0
7 Lead                         mgPb/1                0.5
8 benzo/a/piren                  /I                  2.0
1/ ChZT - chemical oxygen requirements
2/ - BZT5 - 24 hrs biochemical oxygen requirement
Attention:
Table quotes values regarding suspended matters as a basic
polllutant indicator and other relevant road rain sewers
poI ILitants.
~ >~
-   rt 
a'n rtZ
CD     CD
rt



Appendix III
Environmentally accepted levels (Coucil of Ministers regulation of 30.09.80)
Sounds equivalent level in hrs.        Max.short
Poz Area type                                           06.00 - 22.00      22.00 - 6.00        sonnd level
I a/Resort protection areas                          LA= 40 dB          LA= 30 dB           LU- 65 dB
b/Protected landscape areas
c/Green landscape parks
d/Recreation & landscape areas protected by
art.41 of Environment Protection & Structuring
Statute
e/Historical monuments areas
2 a/Hospital & convalescence homes grounds            LA   45 dB        LA   35 dB          LA   70 dB
b/Suburban housing developments
c/Suburban recreation areas
3 a/Residential areas with small no. of shops         LA = 50 dB        LA = 40 dB          LA   75 dB
& services located near streets with traffic
volume up to 1000 veh/h
b/Common dwellings & welfare grounds
c/Scientific and research centers grounds
d/Nurseries, kindergardens, schools and
other institutions where children live
either permanently or spend many hours
on a daily basis
4 a/Residential areas with small no. of shops        LA   55 dB         LA = 45 dB          LA   80 dB
& services located near streets with traffic
volume up to 2000 veh/h
b/City parks & garden lots
c/Recreation & athletic grounds
5 a/Downtown areas with multifunctional              LA   60 dB         LA = 50 dB          LA   85 dB
buildings (housing, commercial, business,
etc.) or streets with traffic volume over
2000 veh/h
*/ Sound level equivalent is expressed by average value of sound
sound levels during observations caltulated from results obtained                                    co  rtz
from measurements defined by Polish standards.                                                       o   X
0   3 n






MAP SECTION






JBRD 2378.
FEDR                 /                                                                                POLAND
~~~  Ci~~~~~~~~~ ~~ROADS  PROJECT
PROPOSED CON-STRUCTION PROJECT:
JOB NUMBERS (,.e A-neA4)
-  SUWAUU           ...S                                ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~0 CONSTRUCTION OF BYPASSES
L    TY r-                                                                                        -      DUALUNGANDUPGRADINGOF ROADS
--- RECON-STRUCTION Of MOTORWAY
KOSZA&N  ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    WN~TVU   GDOP DISTRICTNEADOUARTERS
CIE                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GDDP DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   MAIN ROADS                 .I,   MAOR PORTS
WIELKOPOLT1 
RAILROADS                        RIVERS
<                                              K                                                                                            +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AIRPORTS  CANALS
E LC    A  1    -  -RONIN   -                                                                                                                        @~~~~~~~~~~~~WRb  NATIONAL CAPITAL
5?  V  -- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           M~~~~~~E   V01VOIDSHIP CAPITALS
T.    GOR.A  4LESZNO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~0  CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SIERADZ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        UKANE            NBW-
5?                                                                                                                          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
UKRAINE                                            ESTONLAD2-' 
ST                                                                                                                                     SIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEMN
0  50  00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                              I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I 2200~~~~~~~~~~~                             A         K~~~~T N                         6CECO
0                               2M~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                      ?2
SU0ITL    ~~  AUSTRIA ~~              ROMANIA     \



