Report No. PIC3212
Project Name                       Armenia-Education Financing and (@)
Management Reform Project
Region                             Europe and Central Asia
Sector                             Education
Project ID                         AMPA8281
Borrower                           Government of Armenia
Implementing Agency                Ministry of Education and Sciences
Kchorenatsy St.,Yerevan, Armenia
Tel/Fax: 374-2-151651
Contact Point                      Ministry of Education and Sciences
Karine Haratunian
Kchorenatsy St.,Yerevan, Armenia
Tel/Fax: 374-2-151651
Environment Category               C
Date This PID Prepared             April 23, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date           April 28, 1997
Projected Board Date               September 14, 1997
1.      Country Background: A landlocked country with a land area of
29,800 square kilometers and a population of 3.75 million, Armenia
has few natural resources and its people have survived through
strong traditions of education and entrepreneurship. Following the
breakup of the former Soviet Union (FSU) and its independence in
1991, Armenia inherited a distorted, inefficient and obsolete
national economy strongly affected by the collapse of the central
planning system and disruption of traditional trading arrangements
within the FSU. The consequent economic and social problems were
compounded by the devastation caused by the 1988 earthquake, and by
a virtual economic siege which resulted from the political
conflicts in Georgia and the dispute with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-
Karabakh. These conditions precipitated a catastrophic decline in
output (estimated to have dropped by 52 percent in 1992 and a
further 15 percent in 1993) accompanied by hyperinflation which
accelerated to 900% in the last two months of 1993.
2.      Since 1994 Armenia has made huge strides in reforming its
economy and in establishing a suitable policy framework. The
stabilization program, sustained since early 1994, reduced the
budget deficit to 7 percent of GDP in 1996, less than one sixth of
the 1993 figure. Annual inflation has fallen to less than 10
percent. After two years of collapse, GDP grew by 5.4 percent in
1994 (when per capita GNP was estimated at US$ 670), by nearly 7
percent in 1995 and, according to preliminary estimates, by a
further 6.3 percent in 1996. The core of the Government's reform
program has been stimulation of the private sector. Privatization
has proceeded quickly, with over 4000 small enterprises and about



1000 medium and large enterprises privatized to date. Prices have
been liberalized, and most consumer subsidies, including that on
bread, have been removed. Clearing trade arrangements have been
eliminated, and the foreign exchange and trade regime liberalized.
Despite these improvements, inequities which have been growing fast
since 1991, are remaining high. The impact of these improvements
are also not yet felt in the social sectors which need to be
restructured.
3.      Sectoral Background: With a literary heritage dating back
more than 1600 years, education has long been regarded by Armenians
as the main factor in maintaining national identity. The Armenian
education system was one of the strongest in the FSU, and the
proportion of university graduates in the Armenian population is
higher than in many OECD countries. Armenia has inherited a
comprehensive basic education system which comprises some 1,070
pre-school, and 1,470 primary-secondary schools serving 606,000
registered students. After up to four years of pre-school, children
enter primary school at the age of seven. Funding for pre-school
education comes from a combination of State funds and parental
contributions, while primary-secondary schooling, comprising ten
grades, is compulsory and free of charge, at least in principle.
The country also has a number of boarding and special schools, as
well as schools offering specialized instruction in music, art and
sports. A declining minority of children leave school at grade 8 to
attend separate technical vocational schools. Public funding for
education has collapsed since independence. In the late 1980s,
education expenditure was supported by the general budget of the
Soviet Union at an estimated average unit across all levels
equivalent to approximately US$500-600. The first budget of
independent Armenia, for 1992, was based on a per student
allocation for general education of a mere US$24. In 1997, it is
still very low at about US$30.
4.      Main issues in the sector: (i) The decline in the quality of
education: reversing the decline will require an increase in the
allocation of funds in the State budget: investment in facilities
furniture and equipment are grossly inadequate after six years of
negligible funding for repair, replacement or upgrading. Teachers'
pay and incentives are also grossly inadequate; they have been
receiving only nominal salaries, equivalent to US$ 12 per month in
1996. Failure of the system for provision of textbooks has become a
particularly critical issue. The Social Assessment has revealed
that only 309 of pupils had access to textbooks. A further
challenge is the need to adapt curricula and teaching and
assessments methods to the needs of students in a market economy;
(ii) Low efficiency of the system: in the short and medium term,
there is a crucial need to address the widespread inefficiencies in
the system, in particular the unsustainably generous distribution
of facilities and personnel, and to reallocate funding to priority
areas such as teachers' salaries and training and school
maintenance. Under the existing structure of school finance and
management, which is based on central control through line item
budgeting, there is little room for flexibility and innovation at
the school level; (iii) Increasing inequities in access to
-2 -



education: there is a real danger that lack of access to education
for those experiencing "transitional" poverty could become the
major factor in the emergence of structural poverty in Armenia over
the medium and long term.
5.      Project Objectives: The primary objectives of the project are:
(i)     to facilitate improvements in school performance by
promoting school level initiatives and improving the
supply of textbooks and teaching materials;
(ii)    to help build the necessary institutional
framework and capacity, at the central, marz and school
levels, for more efficient and sustainable operation of
the basic education system.
6.      Project Description: The project would provide, over five
years, assistance for institutional strengthening through technical
assistance, local and external training, as well as financing the
purchase of textbooks, equipment, computer equipment and hardware
and software, vehicles, furniture and incremental recurrent costs.
The project components follow.
7.      Improve Textbook Production and Distribution (US$8.9million).
The component will support the introduction of publishers'
competitions for textbook procurement, the payment of rental fees
by parents for book loans, the accumulation of these payments in
revolving funds at the school level, and the shift to a demand-
based system in which schools make their own decisions concerning
textbook priorities.
8.      Improve Efficiency and School Management (US$1.9). This
component aims to support detailed design, piloting and
implementation of two key elements of the government's strategy for
improving efficiency in the general education system: (i)
increasing efficiency through consolidation of schools and
rationalization of staffing; and (ii) improving efficiency and
school performance by granting legal and financial autonomy to
schools. The component has three sub-components: (1) A Pilot School
Consolidation Program (US$ 0.3 million.) This sub-component will
support: (i) the development of an Education Management System;
(ii) pilot the application of the MIS in the development of
regional rationalization plans, including school consolidation and
revised staffing norms; (iii) pilot the implementation of these
plans in two regions (Marz). (2) A Pilot School Improvement Program
(US$ 1.5 million). This sub-component will make grant funds
available to qualifying individual schools on the basis of
expenditure priorities determined by their elected parent teacher
boards. (3) Capacity Building for School Autonomy (US$ 0.13). This
sub-component will finance training of principals and school board
members in their new financial and management functions and TA and
training to build capacity at the Marz level in monitoring of
school performance.
9.      Support for Project Implementation (US$ 0.6 million). The
-3 -



project will finance a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the
Ministry of Education and Sciences. The PMU will provide support to
departments in charge of the implementation of the different
components of the project and will have responsibility for
procurement, disbursement, maintaining the project accounts and
monitor project implementation.
10.     Project financing. The proposed IDA Credit of US$8 million
would finance about 70% of project costs. The National Contribution
to the project is estimated at US$800,000 equivalent to 6% of total
project cost. Other donors have been approached to provide grant
financing for purchase of textbooks involving about US$ 3.2 million.
11.     Project Implementation. The Ministry of Education and
Sciences will be responsible for project implementation. In order
to facilitate implementation, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will
be set up in the MoES. The PMU will be an extension of the existing
Project Preparation Unit which is, at the moment, in charge of
project preparation. The PMU will be reporting to the Project
Steering Committee and will be responsible for the timely
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
The Project Steering Committee will be set up with representatives
of the ministerial departments directly involved in project
implementation and representatives of the Ministries of Economy and
Finance. The Pilot School Improvement Program will be managed by a
separate small unit attached to the PMU. The two working groups
will be set up in the MoES during Project Preparation, one for the
preparation of the textbook strategy and the other for the
preparation of the education management and financing strategy.
These working groups will continue their tasks of refining
strategies and monitoring their implementation under the project.
12.     Project Sustainability: The textbook component has been
designed to ensure sustainability through revolving funds for
textbook rentals. After the end of the projects, the schools should
have enough funds to reorder textbooks after four years. Capacity
in the Ministry will be strengthened to manage the ordering system.
The School Consolidation Program should permit reallocation of
funds within the Government budget to increase recurrent financing
for schools, enhancing the sustainability of general education as a
whole. School autonomy and involvement of the community in school
management should permit better use of resources at the school
level and increase the level of community contribution to schools,
increasing their efficiency.
13.     Rationale for Bank Involvement: The project supports the
objective of the new Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia which
puts human resources development at the core of proposed Bank
support. The poverty assessment emphasizes the crucial role of the
basic education sector in meeting the human capital needs for
economic growth, in limiting the danger of longer term structural
poverty in Armenia, and in promoting social cohesion. The 1996
social assessment of health and education revealed the strength of
public concern about the deterioration in basic education services:
50% of respondents in the household survey named education as the
- 4 -



number one problem facing the country, while 83% placed education
in the top three problems; within education, the biggest concern
was overwhelmingly that of textbook supply. The project is closely
linked to the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) . The specific
measures described in the letter of development policy for the SAC
provide the policy framework for the project. The government's
strategy for education reform is ambitious and would be virtually
impossible without external resources.
14.     Lessons Learned from Past Bank Experience: Armenia is
implementing six investment projects under IDA and one under IBRD.
Experience from implementation of recent IDA projects shows that
the Government has the capacity to administer and implement a
project in a satisfactory manner and within an agreed timetable.
However, the MoES has very little experience with project
implementation because very few donors are active in the sector.
The Project Preparation Unit (PPU) is implementing a PPF and a PHRD
grant successfully at the moment. The project will strengthen the
implementation capabilities of the Ministry of Education and Sciences.
15.     Poverty Aspects: The project does not target specifically the
poor; however, it will contribute to a decrease in the cost of
textbooks, making them more affordable to the poor and support a
system of provision of free textbooks to the most vulnerable
children through targeting of State subsidies.
16.     Environmental Aspects: The project will have no negative
environmental impact, and has been approved for category C rating.
17.     Participatory Approach: Project preparation involved a wide
range of stakeholders, through interministerial working groups set
up to design project components, through national and regional
workshops and through consultations with school principals. A
social assessment was also conducted in the summer of 1996.
Contact Point:           Alexandre Marc, Task Manager.
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 20, 1997.
- 5 -



