Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16474 AM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
EDUCATION FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT
REFORM PROJECT
October28, 1997
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July, 1997)
Currency Unit         Dram
Draml    =    US$0.002
US$1          Dram 503
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
ECA        Europe and Central Asia
FY        Fiscal Year
FSU        Former Soviet Union
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IDA        Intemational Development Association
IDF       Institutional Development Fund
MoES        Ministry of Education and Science
MOF        Ministry of Finance and Economy
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OM        Operational Manual
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
(Japanese Grant Facility)
PMU        Project Management Unit
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PPU        Project Preparation Unit
SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC         Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SIP       School Improvement Program
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TA        Technical Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNICEF         United Nations Childrens Fund
Armenia - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President, Europe and Central Asia Region:              Johannes Linn (ECA)
Country Director:                                            Judy O'Connor (ECCO3)
Sector Leader:                                               James Socknat (ECSHD)
Team Leader:                                                 Alexandre Marc/Gillian Perkins (ECSHD)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. COUNTRY AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND.1
THE COUNTRY AND ITS RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT..1
B. THE GENERAL EDUCATION SECTOR .....              .......................                                                2
C. KEY ISSUES.                                                                                                            3
D. THE GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY.                                                                                        6
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT.                                                                                        7
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION.                                                                                                   8
A. PROJECT GENESIS.                                                                                                       8
B. PROJECT RATIONALE AND ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED.                                                                         9
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................                                                      10
D. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS .                                                                                   11
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCLAL ASPECTS .............................................. 16
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............................................                                             16
B. PROCUREMENT .............................................. 18
C. DISBURSEMENT .............................................. 21
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ............................................... 22
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..............................................                                  23
A. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ............................................. 23
B. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND SUPERVISION ............................................... 25
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................. 26
A. LINKAGE WITH ESW  AND CAS ..............................................                                              26
B. BENEFITS--COST EFFECTIVENESS--DESIGN ALTERNATIVES .............................................. 27
C. RISKS--SUSTAINABILITY                                             ............................................... 28
D. F I         SCAL IMPACT--C OST RECOVERY .............................................                                 28
E. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT--STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION ............................................. 29
F. POVERTY IMPACT                            ............................................. 29
G. INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS .............................................                                                  30
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................................                                          31
A.  AGR EMENTSREACHEDDURINGNEGOTIATIONS .................................................................................................  31
B. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS ................................ 32



TABLES
Table 1.1 General Education ........................................................ ii
Table 1.2 Public Expenditure on Education in Relation to Total Public Expenditure and GDP(%)ii
Table 1.3 Public Expenditure on Education by Level or Type of Education ................................. ii
Table 3.1 Summary of Project Cost Estimates by Component ................................................... 24
Table 3.2 Financing Plan (excluding taxes) .    .....................  ............................... 25
Table 3.3 Summary of Procurement Arrangements .................................... .................... 28
Table 3.4 Disbursement Categories - Allocation of Loan Proceeds ........................................... 29
Table 3.5 Estimated Disbursements ......................................................... 29
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Education Sector Statistical Summary
Annex 2:   Structure and Financing of Armenian Education System
Annex 3:   Education Finance and Management Strategy
Annex 4:   Main Findings of Social Assessment
Annex 5:   Performance Indicators
Annex 6:   Outline of PIP
Annex 7:   Outline of OM for School Improvement Program
Annex 8:   Summary of Procurement Arrangements
Annex 9:   Detailed Project Costs
Annex 10:  Documents Available in the Project Files
MAP  IBRD No. 28874
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions and a pre-appraisal mission which visited
Amenia over the last 20 months. Alexandre Marc (Program Team Leader) and Gillian Perkins (Task Team
Leader) were the core team, assisted by World Bank staff with expertise in areas related to the project
components, including: Margaret Grosh (PRDPH), Nicholas Burnett (HDDED), Mary Schmidt
(Consultant), Seema Manghee (Consultant), Anush Bezjinyan (Consultant). The preparation of the project
was carried out by two working groups in the Ministry of Education and Science composed of
representatives from the Ministry and from the Ministries of Economy and Finance. The project concept
was discussed in a workshop comprising representatives from schools, regional administration, the
Ministry, and NGOs active in the sector. The working groups were assisted by a project preparation unit
and by local and external consultants financed through a PHRD grant. Countrv Director: Ms. Judy
O'Connor, Sector Leader: Mr. James Socknat. Peer Reviewers: Mr. Bruno Laporte (HDDED); Mr.
Benoit Millot (MNSHD).



REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
EDUCATION FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Education and Science
Beneficiaries:             Pupils and parents, school staff and boards, Ministry of Education
and Science, regional administrators
Poverty Category:          Not Applicable
IDA Credit Amount:          SDR 11.1 million (US$15 million)
Credit Termns:             Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years including a 10-
year grace period
Commitment Charge:         Standard (variable rate between 0 and 0.5% of undisbursed credit
balance set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Map:                       IBRD 28874
Project ID Number:         AM-PA-8281
Financing Plan:
Estimated Project Financing
US$ million         Percentage
Local   Foreign   Total     of Total
Cost
Government of Armenia                        1.3      0        1.3      5
Armenian Communities                        7.4       0        7.4    31
Donors                                      0.1       0.1      0.2      1
IDA                                         9.4       5.6      15      63
Total Project Costs                         18.2      5.7     23.9   100



ii
Estimated Project Cost by Project Component:
Project Costs
(US$ Million)       Foreign    Total Base
Components               Local   For'n   Total  Exchange    Costs /a
/a
1. Textbook Production and Distribution    12.6  4.3   16.9        26          75
2. Capacity Building for Reform       3.7      0.9    4.6          20          20
Management
3. Support for Project Implementation  0.8     0.2    1.0          20           5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 17.1      5.4   22.5          24         100
Physical Contingencies                  0        0      0           0           0
Price Contingencies                    1.1     0.3    1.4          21           6
Total PROJECT COSTS                  18.2      5.7   23.9          24         106
a_ The relation between local and foreign costs may change depending on local inflation and
exchange rate movements.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Disbursements Estimates by Bank Fiscal Year (US$ million)
ID           FY1998    Y 1999  FY 2000  FY 2001   FY 2002    Total:
lIDA           1  l.0   0      2.25   0X5.08  5.75   X1.0          I 155



REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Education Financing and Management Reform Project
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. COUNTRY AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
THE COUNTRY AND ITS RECENT ECONOMiC DEVELOPMENT
1.1    A landlocked country with a land area of 29,800 square kilometers and a population of 3.75
million, Armenia has few natural resources and its people have survived through strong traditions of
education and entrepreneurship. Following the breakup of the former Soviet Union (FSU) and its
independence in 1991, Armenia inherited a distorted, inefficient and obsolete national economy strongly
affected by the collapse of the central planning system and disruption of traditional trading arrangements
within the FSU. The consequent economic and social problems were compounded by the continuing impact
of the devastating 1988 earthquake, and by virtual economic siege which resulted from the political
conflicts in Georgia and the dispute with Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh. These conditions
precipitated a catastrophic decline in output (estimated to have dropped by 52 percent in 1992 and a further
15 percent in 1993) accompanied by hyperinflation which accelerated to 900% in the last two months of
1993.
1.2   Since 1994 Armenia has made huge strides in reforming its economy and in establishing a suitable
policy framework. The stabilization program, sustained since early 1994, reduced the budget deficit to 8
percent of GDP in 1996, one sixth of the 1993 figure. Annual inflation has fallen to 6% in 1996. After
years of collapse, GDP grew by 5.4 percent in 1994, by nearly 7 percent in 1995 and by a further 5.8
percent in 1996, when per capita GNP was estimated at US$ 830. The core of the Government's reform
program has been stimulation of the private sector. Privatization has proceeded quickly, with almost all
agricultural land, 80 percent of small enterprises and about 65 percent of medium and large enterprises
privatized to date. Prices have been liberalized, and most consumer subsidies have been removed. Clearing
trade arrangements have been eliminated, and the foreign exchange and trade regime liberalized.
1.3   From 1992 to 1994, living standards fell sharply and poverty became widespread and severe
throughout the country, especially among urban residents without recourse to subsistence agriculture.
Although Armenia has no official poverty line, the household survey in 1994 made clear that applying any
plausible absolute poverty line resulted in a large majority of respondents being classified as poor. Living
standards of the population have yet to recover from the collapse in real wages, compounded by the
removal of subsidies on essential goods and drastic cuts in spending on social services. Positive growth
since 1994 has allowed a slight recovery, but real wages, at US$20 per month, are still only one third of
their level in 1992. Although comparable data are not available for earlier periods, there are strong
indications that the fall in living standards for a large proportion of the population has been accompanied
by increasing inequality in the distribution of income.



2
B. THE GENERAL EDUCATION SECTOR
1.4    Education in Armenia, based on 1,600 years of literary heritage, has long been regarded as the
main factor in maintaining national identity. When Soviet power was established in Armenia in 1920, a
new system of education was introduced, managed centrally from Moscow and based on socialist values.
The existing network of Christian schools was reformed accordingly but the Armenian language was
basically preserved. Compulsory education was progressively extended from four grades in 1930 to eight
by 1959. Teachers at all levels of education received salaries close to the national average income and
enjoyed high social status. Pupil drop-out and repetition rates were negligible. At the time of the break-up
of the Soviet Union, Armenia enjoyed one of the highest standards of education among the republics, with
universal access to ten years of basic education. The great majority of the Armenian adult population is
bilingual and literate in both Armenian and Russian and 25% are university graduates.
1.5    The system inherited from the Soviet era now comprises 1,470 primary-secondary schools serving
606,000 pupils with a pupil/teacher ratio of I 1, as well as some 1,070 pre-schools. After up to four years
of pre-school, children enter primary school at the age of seven. Funding for pre-school education now
comes from a combination of state funds and parental contributions, while primary-secondary schooling,
comprising eight compulsory grades and two furither years on the basis of selective examination, is still free
of charge, at least in principle. The country also has a number of boarding and special schools, as well as
schools offering specialized instruction in music, art or sports. A declining proportion of the children who
leave school at grade 8 continue their education in separate technical vocational schools. Less than one
percent of primary-secondary pupils attend private schools; however, the use of private tutors outside.
school hours is a conmmon practice among those who can afford it.
.1.6    Public funding for education has collapsed since independance. In the late 1980s, education
expenditure was supported by the general budget of the Soviet Union at an estimated average unit cost
across all levels equivalent to approximately US$500-600. The first budget of independant Armenia in
1992 was based on a per student allocation for general education of a mere US$24; in the 1997 budget, this
is still very low at about US$30. As a share of GDP, public expenditure on education in Armenia has
fluctuated around 2.5% over the last three years--only about half the world average, in part because of the
small share of fiscal revenues in GDP. Even as a share of total government expenditure, however, Armenia
has been spending well below average on education. (Evolution of the structure and funding of the
education system is outlined in Annex 2.)
1.7    The collapse of public funding, combined with the impact of the 1988 earthquake, has undermined
quality, demand and equity throughout the education system. Parents are meeting higher costs through
informal charges, even for "compulsory" basic education, while the quality of services is declining. The
impact has inevitably fallen on those families most affected by transitional poverty who are unable to
afford the costs of textbooks, formal and informal fees, private tutors or, in some cases, even the costs of
winter clothing and shoes. The longer term implications are recognized to be serious (1 996 Armenia
Poverty Assessment), both for the potential emergence of structural poverty in the country, and for the
quality of human capital on which Armenia's economy will continue to be highly dependent.
1.8    Between 1990 and 1996, total enrolments across all sectors declined by some 20% while official
demographic data report a small increase in the size of the school-age population. Changes in enrolment
rates (see Annex 1) are difficult to estimate, however, because the high rates of recent temnporary and
permanent migration cannot be accounted for accurately. The most substantial retraction has been in
kindergarten, in which total enrolment has fallen by more than 50% and the number of schools by 18%
since the late 1980s. This is attributed primarily to the deterioration of facilities, the introduction of charges



3
to parents, and the high level of unemployment which has made it easier for children to be cared for at
home.
1.9    Primary-secondary schools have been forced to close during the coldest months of recent winters
and have depended for their survival on parental contributions, the determined efforts of teachers who have
received only nominal salaries, and assistance from humanitarian agencies. In compulsory general
education, it is estimated that about 5%' of the reference population are not enrolled in school (compared
with virtually 0% in the 1980s), while a much higher proportion have not been attending regularly, due
largely to the poor physical conditions in schools, and the increasing costs to parents. Total recorded
enrolments in 1996 were 1.5% below their 1990 level. Remarkably, the number of schools and the number
of teachers have actually increased (see Annex 2), although average qualifications of the teaching force
have declined and there are shortages in some subjects. Pupil/teacher ratios (11.1) and average class size
(<20) continue to be very low by international standards; by comparison with OECD countries, the excess
of non-teaching staff working for the education sector in Armenia is even greater.
1.10   Although the structure of the education budget (Annexes land 2) still shows the influence of the
former Soviet norms, it is moving in the direction of standards more typical in market economies. Recent
evolution of the budget reflects increasing priority to primary and secondary education; the planned
allocation of 51% of the education budget to general education in 1997, up from 41% in 1996, compares
with an OECD average of 70%. The shares of the education budget allocated to kindergarten, out-of-school
institutions, food, and student stipends, are still high by international standards, despite recent cutbacks.
Resources allocated over recent years to new construction, maintenance of existing facilities, or purchase of
new equipment, have been negligible. Salaries, which typically account for some 70% of education budgets,
are planned to increase to 52% of Armenia's 1997 budget for the sector.
1.11   The responsibility for provision of pre-school and out-of-school services has been transferred in
1997 to municipalities, which receive a lump sum from the central treasury to be allocated as they see fit.
Funds for basic schooling are channeled directly from the central treasury to the 11 Marz (regional)
education offices. This new level of regional administration is a consolidation of the 57 former regions and
represents a deconcentration rather than decentralization of authority: Marz officials are not elected but are
appointed by and accountable to the central government. Marz education departments are responsible for
disbursing funds to individual schools, on the basis of centrally determined line item budgets, and for
managing the regional school inspectorate. The responsibilities of school principals have increased since
independence and now include the selection and hiring of teachers and other staff. They have also increased
de facto, in that principals have had to innovate in raising resources from other sources, including informal
charges to parents, in order to keep schools in operation. The only institutions still managed directly by the
Ministry of Education and Science are the boarding and special schools, and some of the post-secondary
institutions. The MoES is also responsible for curriculum and textbook development, teacher training and
qualifications, and for monitoring and assessment.
C. KEY ISSUES
Oualitv
1.12   Underfunding. Reversing the decline in the quality of general education will require an increase in
the allocation of funds in the State budget. Planned expenditure for 1997 continues to be inadequate in
This estimate is based on the results of a 1996 household survey, not on official demographic data which
would suggest lower enrolment rates.



4
terms of share of GDP, share of government expenditure, the imnmediate needs of the basic education
sector, and the resources required for introducing pedagogical reforms. Achieving adequate funding to
improve quality will also depend on mobilizing additional non-budgetary resources. Mechanisms are needed
to encourage, formalize and target community and parental contributions to schooling; these are already
substantial but are largely informal and indirect.
1.13   Physical infrastructure. One consequence of the recent underfunding, combined with the impact of
the 1988 earthquake, has been the drastic deterioration of school buildings, in many cases to the extent that
leaming is impeded and in some cases presenting health hazards. About one third of Armenia's schools
were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake and another 60 by shelling in the border zone. Many schools
are still housed in temporary buildings and about one in four permanent structures are estimated to need
urgent attention.The majority of schools have no functioning heating system and still depend on inadequate
kerosene heaters which were intended only as a short term emergency measure during the energy crisis.
Furniture and equipment are grossly inadequate after six years of negligible funding for repair, replacement
or upgrading. Some progress has been made in school rehabilitation through the Social Investment Fund,
the Earthquake Zone project and assistance from the Diaspora; however, this has been very limited in
proportion to the needs.
1.14   Teachers 'pay and incentives. Teachers have been receiving only nominal salaries, equivalent to
about $12 per month in 1996. Combined with the exceptionally difficult teaching conditions, this has
resulted in an outflow of qualified and experienced teachers (including almost all male teachers), a decline
in the average level of qualifications in the teaching force, and shortages of teachers in some subjects.
Tlhose who remain in the profession are obliged to supplement their income through private tutoring and
through other activities such as trade or subsistence agriculture. The status of teachers in the community
has declined and teacher training is no longer a popular option among academically successful school
leavers and graduates. In-service training of teachers is underfunded and inadequate to support
implementation of any significant pedagogical reforms. As development of the labor market is increasing
the alternative opportunities available, substantially improved salaries and incentives will be essential to
retain and attract high quality teachers.
1.15   Textbooks. Failure of the system for provision of basic textbooks has become a particularly critical
issue. Under the Soviet system, pupils were provided with copies of all the required books, on loan for the
year, free of charge. Following independence, curricula and textbooks have been progressively revised to
remove Soviet ideological bias and reflect Armenian history and culture. Publishing, printing and
distribution of new textbooks, however, has been ineffective, because of the shortage of public funds, the
lack of experience of financial and commercial management practices on the part of any sector of the
Armenian book trade, and failure to control costs, quality or delivery schedules. Since 1992, parents have
been required to pay for textbooks. The system introduced in 1995 has been based primarily on parental
pre-subscription payments (supported in some cases by public loans) to pre-finance publishing and printing
contracts that are awarded by the MoES, without competitive process, on the basis of expected demand.
Public opposition to this approach has been strong. The 1996 social assessment revealed that only 30 % of
pupils have access to all required textbooks, and the majority of parents consider the availability, cost and
quality of textbooks to be the single most important issue for their childrens' schooling. There is an urgent
need for an efficient and effective system of textbook provision that is affordable to parents, meets the
needs of teachers and pupils, and can support the on-going curriculum reform process.
1.16   Pedagogical approach. A further challenge is the need to adapt curricula and teaching and
assessment methods to the needs of students in a market economy. The curricula and methodology inherited
from the soviet system are excessively rigid, emphasizing conformity, factual content and rote learning.
Teaching is characterized as "directive" or "frontal", with the teacher as the center of activity. It is unusual



5
for pupils to work on their own tasks at their own pace or to work in groups. In the medium term, the
Armenian system needs to move from what is still predominantly a knowledge based methodology to one
that will encourage the development of adaptive skills, practical problem solving and individual initiative.
This would require a major shift in the focus of teacher training and assessment methodology, from subject
content to learning processes. There is still a lack of any clear consensus in Armenia, however, among
education professionals or the general public, concerning the nature or urgency of any changes needed in
pedagogical approach, in part because of strong concern that the rigorous standards achieved in the past
should not be jeopardized.
Efficiencv
1.17   School consolidation and rationalization of staffing. In the short and medium term there is a
crucial need to address widespread inefficiencies in the system, in particular the unsustainably generous
distribution of facilities and personnel, and to reallocate finding to priority areas such as teachers' salaries
and training, materials and equipment, and buildings maintenance. Variability throughout the country in
class sizes and staffing ratios is extreme, with some primary school classes in small schools, for example,
having fewer than  0 pupils. In addition, recent migration has left many school buildings underutilized.
T.here is considerable scope for using scarce education resources more effectively by merging schools
(especially at the secondary level), selling or renting surplus buildings, increasing pupil/teacher ratios and
class sizes, extending teachers' working hours, using multi-grade teaching in small rural schools, and
reducing the number of non-teaching staff. The case is also strong--for both cost efficiency and
humanitarian reasons--for rationalizing the boarding special school sector and intergrating many of the
pupils in local day schools.
1.18   Incentives and mechanisms for efficiency measures. Under the existing structure of school finance
and management, which is based on central control through line item budgeting, there are few incentives or
mechanisms at any level for identifying and implementing efficiency and quality improvement measures.
There is little room for flexibility or innovation in resource allocation at the school or marz levels. In
addition, the commitment of central education planners to a program for school consolidation and
rationalization of staffing has been deterred by lack of assurance that the resulting savings will be retained
in the education sector.
Equitv
1.19   Equity in access to education is a matter of increasing concern. Access to post-secondary
education is increasingly restricted to the children of well-off families. There is also concem that the
children of poor families do not have equitable access to "compulsory" basic education. The 1996 social
assessment revealed that informal payments for basic education are high (Annex 4), and that this was an
important factor in the non-attendance of a small minority of children and the irregular attendance of many
more. Another concern of parents was that, now that most of the professional schools had closed, poor
children who failed to meet the academic criteria for entrance to grades nine and ten were often left with no
alternative educational opportunity and no practical skills.
1.20   Targeting of subsidies. As informal payments at each level of education are increasingly replaced
by formal cost recovery or private provision, the need is well accepted for subsidies to be made available to
those who are unable to pay. Formal charges have already been introduced for pre-school, for textbooks
and non-core subjects in basic education, for most specialized instruction in out-of-school institutions, and
for the majority of post-secondary students. In the absence of accurate income reporting or good proxy
indicators of poverty, innovative mechanisms are needed to target subsidies effectively to the neediest
pupils. As schools are depending on parental and community support even to meet the costs of the core



6
curriculum, it will also be necessary to target additional public funding to schools in the poorest
communities.
istitutional Capacity
1.21   Successful reform and effective management of the education system will require time and
resources for capacity building, consultation and consensus building. Armenian education professionals
have limited experience in functions that were formerly carried out in Moscow and have been isolated from
international debate and exposure to current practice in their field. Knowledge and skills in finance and
management are lacking at all levels of education administration. The new institutional framework still
lacks consultative mechanisms and transparent processes for decisiomnaking in the sector. Sector analysis
and research are made difficult by the past neglect of these functions and by lack of reliable data. Reform is
also hindered by vestiges of the soviet management culture in the education sector: the culture of central
planning, tendencies among colleagues to withhold rather than share information, the longstanding role of
teachers and students as followers of a central mandate, and the role of parents as passive recipients of
education services, leaving all school management and pedagogical questions to the professionals. In this
context, information will play a particularly key role in the emerging system.
D. THE GOVERNMENT REFORM STRATEGY
1.22 The govermment strategy for education reform (Annex 3) is based on improving the quality and
efficiency of compulsory general education by providing more autonomy to schools, increasing parents'
and community contribution for non core curriculum activities, redirecting public funding to general
education, and rationalizing education expenditures. The strategy integrates the following elements:
• Increasing public expenditure on education, to at least 10.3% of total non-interest government
expenditures in 1998 (under the Structural Adjustment Program).
* Concentrating public funds on assuring the quality of eight years of compulsory basic schooling, with a
further two years to be provided free of charge on the basis of selective examination.
* Expanding formal cost recovery and/or private provision for non-core subjects and services in basic
education, and for pre-school and post-secondary programs.
* Introducing a new system for textbooks, based on competitive procurement, to support on-going
curriculum revision. The system will be self-financing and driven by demand at the school level.
* Providing subsidies, to be allocated at the school level, to those who are unable to afford the textbook
rental fee or other essential payments.
* Rationalizing the allocation of resources within general education through school consolidation on the
basis of more cost effective norms and standards for school size, facilities, class size and staffing
ratios.
* Progressively introducing a new status and governance structure for schools. Autonomous schools
would be governed by school boards, including parent and teacher representatives, would receive per
pupil budgetary funding (based on new norms and standards for the core curriculum and weighted
accorded to special needs), would have the right to raise and manage funds from other sources and to
charge fees for "non-core" services, and would determine their own expenditure allocations.



7
Focusing the role of the central Ministry on curriculum development, setting and monitoring of
standards, teacher training and qualifications, assessment of student and school performance.
1.23   A number of changes have already been introduced in the sector. Private participation is already
strong in the tertiary sector. Since 1992, primary-secondary school principals have been responsible for
hiring and firing teachers and other staff. Charges have been introduced for meals in pre-school and
responsibility for the provision of pre-school and out-of-school services has been transferred to
municipalities. The 1997 budget reflects the increasing priority of funding basic education. In particular,
the new system for competitive textbook procurement has been piloted and the full textbook strategy enjoys
broad support within the Ministry, in schools, and among the general public.
1.24   The government's proposed measures for school consolidation and school autonomy are less well
understood or supported by key stakeholders, even within the MoES. The Ministry has suffered from a
series of changes in leadership, lack of effective internal communication, and shortage of funds for public
information activities. Substantial progress has been made in recent months: the MoES document outlining
the broad reform strategy (Annex 3) has been finalized and formally endorsed by the government; the
government has also adopted a decree re-defining the status of schools and school boards and specifying the
procedures and criteria for granting the new autonomous status; and the MoES has carried out an economic
study defining more cost effective norms and standards to guide the rationalization process. Nevertheless,
building sufficient support to pilot and implement these reforms successfully will be extremely difficult,
considering the limited institutional capacity and the dependence at this stage on a few key personnel. The
legal basis for the reform strategy has yet to be established.
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
hntearation in the CAS
1.25   The project is an integral element in the new CAS (1997) which puts human resources development
at the core of proposed Bank support, with the objective of "ensuring social sustainability of the reform
process and the alleviation of poverty through improvements in the quality of and access to basic health and
education services." This objective, and the proposed project, are also supported in the CAS by Structural
Adjustment Credits which give high priority to human resources, and a proposed follow-up social sector
adjustment loan for 1999.
1.26   The CAS draws on the poverty assessment (1996) which emphasizes the crucial role of the basic
education sector-- in meeting the human capital needs for economic growth, in limiting the danger of longer
term structural poverty in Armenia, and in promoting social cohesion. The poverty assessment recommends
that high priority be given to improving both the level and the efficiency of public expenditure on education
and to concentrating public resources on ensuring universally affordable, good quality, basic education.
1.27   Policy dialogue with Armenia on the education sector has been sustained over the last two years in
relation to the Social Investment Fund and the SAC, as well as project preparation. The experience of the
SIF in working with communities on school rehabilitation has been positive and has informed the design of
this project. The project has been prepared in tandem with a health project which is addressing related
reform issues in the financing of basic health services. An IDF grant is proposed to support de-
institutionalization of children in special boarding schools and orphanages.
1.28   The specific measures included in the SAC II support the policy framework for the project. The
main measures described in the Letter of Development Policy concerning general education are: (i) the
Government is committed to not incurring any arrears on education expenditures in the implementation of



8
the 1997 budget, to ensuring that the share of appropriations to the education sector for the second half of
1997 is no less than 9.3% of total non-interest government expenditures, and that the 1998 state budget to
be submitted to Parliament will include an allocation for education of at least 10.3 % of total non-interest
government expenditures; (ii) in order to rationalize the use of resources, increase efficiency and improve
teacher salaries, the Government will adopt a program for consolidation of schools, defining the norms and
standards that will guide the consolidation process, and specifying the mechanisms that may be used to
manage the closure or transfer of redundant facilities and associated staff, regional education authorities
will be required to draw up their own detailed programs, on the basis of local consultation, and these
programs for the first two pilot marzes will be prepared and submitted by December 31, 1997; (iii) to allow
the number of boarding schools to be reduced, the Govermnent will adopt, by April 1, 1998, a strategy for
de-institutionalization of children in boarding schools and other specialized institutions.
Public priorities
1.29   The 1996 social assessment of health and education (Annex 4), undertaken in the course of project
preparation, revealed the strength of public concern about the deterioration in basic education services:
50% of respondents in the household survey named education as the number one problem facing the
country, while 83% placed education in the top three problems; within education, the biggest concern was
overwhelmingly that of textbook supply.
Catalytic role
1.30 The government's strategy for education reform is ambitious and would be virtually impossible to
finance without external resources. To date, external support to the sector has been very limited and
piecemeal. Diasporan support is channeled to the tertiary sector and special needs programs. Agencies that
have been providing humanitarian assistance to schools in the form of food, heating fuel and supplies are
progressively pulling out, as the emergency is perceived to be over. Preparation of the project has already
facilitated donor coordination and the project could continue to play the role of catalyst to attract additional
resources from donors and the private sector, by improving the policy framework and strengthening the
capacity of the Ministry of Education and Science to manage externally funded projects. The project has
been prepared in close coordination with UNICEF, the only major donor active in the field of general
education. Five different donors have already contributed funds for book procurement in piloting of the
textbook component. UNICEF and UNDP have committed co-financing for the SIP and school level
training. UNESCO experts will be participating in the project under UNDP financing.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PROJECT GENESIS
2.1    The Government of Armenia requested Bank assistance in Autumn 1995 for the preparation of a
project to address the pressing needs of the general education sector. Policy dialogue has been sustained
since then, in relation both to project preparation and the SAC. Despite changes of leadership in the
Ministry of Education and Science, and lack of consensus on some aspects of reform policy, government
conunitment to the proposed project has not wavered.



9
2.2    Two working groups were established by the Minister of Education, charged with the definition of
reform measures and implementation plans. Each group was supported as needed by international
consultants with appropriate experience, funded by a country-managed PHRD grant for project
preparation. The first group developed the new strategy and implementation plan for textbooks, in
coordination with curriculum planners, basing the detailed design on extensive consultation with parents,
teachers and principals in each region of the country, as well as key players in the publishing and printing
industries. The second group, supported by the development of a computerized management information
system in the Ministry of Education, had a broader mandate to prepare the overall strategy for reform of
education finance and management.
2.3    Social assessment in project preparation included qualitative and quantitative surveys (in mid
1996) of the experience, opinions and concerns of households, teachers and parents concerning education
reform. A national workshop was held in October 1996 to disseminate the findings of the social assessment
and debate the reform options.
2.4    A PPF was approved to finance a pilot exercise and related training in textbook procurement. Since
late 1996, a Project Preparation Unit in the Ministry of Education has been handling administration of
PHRD and PPF funds.
B. PROJECT RATIONALE AND ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED
2.5    Project design is influenced by a variety of factors. First, the scale of this initial project in the
education sector is constrained by limitations of IDA funding. Second, the potential scope and pace of the
education reform process in Armenia depends both on strengthening institutional capacity and on
continuing public debate on priorities and reform options in some areas before sufficient consensus is
reached for successful implementation. Third is the need for complementarity with related Bank operations
in the selection of project components.
2.6    The broad rationale underlying project design is that, considering the immediate funding and
institutional constraints, priority should be given to establishing the necessary institutional framework for
the management of education reform and for future larger scale investment in the sector. The project
therefore targets resources to building management capacity at central, regional and school levels, all of
which will be essential in the medium and long run to improve the quality and sustainability of the general
education system. For several reasons, this first project is designed to focus in particular on capacity
building at the school level: first, this is where most of the recent innovation and dynamism has occurred;
second, in the present situation of near crisis, the most rapid short term results can be achieved by focusing
on the capacity at this level; third, government's reform strategy will place substantial additional formal
responsibilities at the level of the school.
2.7    The project will help to test, establish and build confidence in new institutional roles and
decisionmaking processes by focusing on three key areas of the government's reform strategy--textbook
provision, school consolidation and school autonomy. Because of the need to pilot new arrangements,
considerable flexibility will be called for in project implementation. This, in turn, will put a strong onus on
monitoring and social assessment during the course of implementation, which is built into project design.
2.8    The project addresses all of the key issues for the sector outlined in section I.C above, with the
exception of the following:
Physical infrastructure: The project does not address the very substantial need for
reconstruction and rehabilitation of school buildings. It does support the schools consolidation



10
plan and new financing strategy, which should ideally be in place before large scale investment
in school buildings is undertaken. In addition, a mechanism already exists, through the SIF, for
channeling funds for school rehabilitation; it is proposed that other donors be encouraged to
contribute to the SIF for education. The community-based approach of the SIF corresponds
well with the schools-focused approach in the design of this project, with complementary
objectives; there will be close coordination between the SIF and the pilot schools improvement
component.
*  Teachers pay, training and incentives: This is another issue of crucial importance. However,
the need here is for recurrent rather than investment funds and it is proposed that this be
addressed under a future social sector adjustment loan. In the meantime, the present SAC
conditions on budgetary allocations to education, combined with reductions in the number of
staff under the rationalization program, should allow for some improvement in this area.
*  Pedagogical reforms: The proposed project is addressing the "process" issues related to
curriculum reform and textbook evaluation, through the textbook component. However, it is
not directly addressing important questions of curriculum content, or teaching methods. The
social assessment suggests that, in the current crisis situation, neither parents nor teachers in
general are keen to experiment with new pedagogical methods which might threaten the
traditional standards in which they take pride. At the same time, Armenians feel strongly that
this is a national matter which they have the capacity to deal with themselves. The project will,
however, include measures to increase exposure of educators to new ideas and make
information available on international practice. It is envisaged that dialogue will be sustained
on these questions and that the financial needs for implementing reform of teaching and
assessment methods, once there is sufficient consensus on the need for this, could be met
through a subsequent project to finance the development of teacher training systems.
2.9    The strategic focus of the project is twofold:
*  facilitating improvements in the quality of general education by promoting school-level
initiatives, by increasing opportunities and incentives for innovation throughout the system,
and by improving the supply of textbooks and teaching materials;
*  helping build the necessary institutional framework and capacity at all levels, for more
efficient, equitable and sustainable operation of the basic education system.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.10   Specific objectives of the textbook component are to: (i) improve the quality of, and reduce the
costs of, school textbooks and teachers' manuals; (ii) ensure that all pupils have access to required
textbooks for the core curriculum; (iii) establish the basis for a sustainable, demand driven system of
financing school textbooks; and (iv) achieve full cost recovery of textbooks within four years, except for
the poorest groups.
2.11   Specific objectives of the capacity building for reform management component are to: (i) establish
processes and incentives to increase efficiency in the allocation of resources within general education; (ii)
give schools the flexibility, and build their capacity, for effective management of their own resources; (iii)
promote community and parental participation in school funding and management; (iv) improve capacity
for assessment and monitoring of school performance.



11
D. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Component I: Improve Textbook Production and Distribution (US$ 16.9 million)
2.12   Since the withdrawal of public funding for textbooks in 1992, these costs have been transferred to
parents. The combination of high book prices and lack of availability, because of failures in procurement
and distribution systems, has led to a situation where less than one third of pupils have access to the books
they need. In response to this crisis and the strength of public concern, the Textbook Working Group of the
MoES has developed a comprehensive new strategy and implementation plan for procurement and
financing of textbooks for the core curriculum. In Novemberl 996, this strategy was approved and adopted
by the government.
2.13   The new strategy is based on the following principles: the introduction of publishers' competitions
for textbook procurement; the payment of rental fees by parents for book loan; the accumulation of these
payments in revolving funds at the school level; and the shift over time to a demand-based system in which
schools make their own decisions concerning textbook priorities. The strategy assumes external funding for
the purchase of textbooks during the first four years of the new scheme, to enable sufficient funds to be
accumulated in schools' revolving funds for the system to become self-financing. A computerized system
will be introduced to consolidate the orders from individual schools. In addition, successful implementation
of the strategy will require substantial TA, training and information dissemination to ensure that all those
involved--administrators, curriculum developers, authors, publishers, printers, distributors, school
directors, teachers, parents and pupils--have full understanding of the new procedures.
2.14 ' The 1996 social assessment revealed a high level of public support for the new strategy which is
the result of wide consultation with school principals, teachers and parents. The strategy is also strongly
supported by other donors, five of whom have contributed co-financing in 1997 for the purchase of primary
grade textbooks to be included in the first year of the revolving fund scheme.
2.15   Each school will charge book rental fees to parents, based on the anticipated replacement cost of
the book after four years (a book life of four years is assumed) and will accumulate the funds in a separate
account. The required fee will be calculated and announced annually by the MoES. By the end of the four
year period, the system will be self sustaining as schools use their revolving funds to purchase new books
and continue to top up the funds from rental fees. During the life of the project, the rental fees collected by
each school will be held in separate, interest bearing sub-accounts of a central holding account in Yerevan,
in a commercial bank in Armenia. This central fund will be managed on behalf of the schools by the Board
of Trustees of the Textbook Fund, which has been registered for this purpose as an extra-budgetary, non-
profit, legal entity, legally separate from the MoES but working in close cooperation with it. Once the
scheme is operating successfully and is self-financing, it is intended that individual schools may opt to
manage their own funds in local accounts. Assurances were received during negotiations that the
Borrower will maintain the Textbook Fund as the agent responsible for managing revolving fund
accounts during project execution. [para. 6.1 (j)].
2.16   Bearing in mind the costs to parents, the MoES has reduced the number of titles required for
grades 1-10 by 25% and has confirmed its publishing program for 1997/98 to 2000/01 on that basis. The
average cost to parents of annual rental of one textbook in the first year of the new scheme is estimated at
250 drams, compared with recent purchase prices paid by parents of 1,000 drains or more in bookstores,
and many times that amount in the black market, for books of inferior quality and durability. It is expected
that the new competitive procurement procedures will have a progressive impact on further reducing unit
costs during the life of the project.



12
2.17   Even though the costs of textbooks to parents will be greatly reduced under this scheme, it is
estimated that as many as 10-20% of families will be unable to afford the full fee. The government is
committed to ensuring that the costs of subsidies to these families can be met through a combination of
budgetary funds and donations. The identification of needy students and administration of the subsidies will
be the responsibility of the school. During negotiations assurances were received that (i) not later than
February 28, 1998, the Borrower will submit to IDA detailed criteria for the allocation of subsidies
between schools and guidelines to schools for the administration of these subsidies to vulnerable
groups, satisfactory to IDA [para. 6.1 (i)], and (ii) that not later than September 30 of each calendar
year, the Government shall provide its contribution to the Textbook Fund in the amount equivalent to
at least 10% of the total revolving fund requirements for the next nine-month period, as estimated by
the MoES. [para 6.1 (k)J.
2.18   The four-year publishing program for required books for the core curriculum has been matched to
the schedule proposed by the MoES for introducing revised curricula. TA in the curriculum development
process and preparation of guidelines for publishers will be provided under the project. Assurances were
received during negotiations that the Borrower will ensure, during execution of the project, that (i) no
revisions shall be made to the schedule of textbook publishing and curriculum development for grades
1-10 without prior consultation with IDA and (ii) no revisions shall be made, without an appoval by
IDA, to the curriculumlsyllabi of those subjects for which the textbooks are financed under the
project after the bidding process for said textbooks has been initiated by the Borrower [para 6.1 (l)J.
2.19   A pilot exercise was approved for funding under the PPF, to test the proposed bidding and
evaluation processes and related training activities on a small scale, prior to full scale implementation. A
formal process of publisher competitions and evaluation by expert subject panels has been introduced,
based on transparent and fair evaluation criteria. Publishers are required to identify their own authors, to
develop publishing outlines, synopses and samples up to a specified stage, and to submit these for
evaluation. All submissions which achieve agreed standards of educational and production quality are then
submitted to a price evaluation. Publishers have freedom in selecting their own printers, obliging Armenian
printers to compete with each other, and potentially with printers outside Armenia. Publishers are also
required to distribute books to provincial centers and thus to seek competitive distribution services, thereby
introducing competition among the distribution agencies in Armenia. Similarly, competitions have been
held at the regional level for contracts to distribute books to schools from the provincial centers.
2.20   The experience of the pilot exercise confirmed the importance of intensive training and TA when
the procedures being introduced are entirely new to all the key participants. It has also served to accelerate
the privatization process in the Armenian publishing industry, as companies have hastened to ensure that
they will be eligible bidders under the project. At the same time, international interest in the Armenian
textbook market has become keen. Foreign publishers--from the UK and France, in particular-- have
initiated discussions with local firms concerning possible joint activities; MacMillan have purchased a 55%
interest in a private Armenian textbook publisher. The pilot experience also made clear the importance of
continuity in professional management and coordination, through the Textbook Working Group. This
Group will continue to play a key role through project implementation.
2.21   In supporting the govemment's implementation of the new textbook strategy, the project will
finance the following items: (i) the purchase and distribution to schools of core textbooks for general
education grades 1-10 over a four year period; (ii) equipment and TA to establish a computerized system
for consolidation of textbook orders from schools; (iii) TA and training in curriculum design and
preparation of publishers' guidelines; (iv) TA, training and information for bid administrators, bid
evaluators, authors and publishers in the new competitive system of book procurement; and (v) training and



13
informnation for school directors, teachers and parents in the management of school-based revolving funds
and allocation of subsidies to poor students.
Component II: Capacity Buildine for Reform Management (US$ 4.5 million)
2.22   This component aims to support detailed design, piloting and implementation of the governnent's
strategy for reform of the general education system. This strategy, prepared by the Ministry of Education
and Science, was formally adopted by the government in July 1997 (see Annex 3). Two key elements of the
strategy present particular challenges for implementation: increasing efficiency through rationalization of
schools and staffing; and improving resource mobilization and school performance by granting legal and
financial autonomy to schools.
2.23   The project focuses on building the necessary capacity at the central, marz and school levels to
facilitate implementation and monitoring of these major reforms. It will do this through the following
activities:
*  support for policy development;
*  public information and consultation prograns;
4  management information system;
*  pilot school rationalization at the marz level;
*  training of school principals and board members to support school autonomy;
*  pilot school improvement program.
Sub-Component A: Strategy for Finance and Management Reforms (US$1.3 million)
2.24   Central policy development. Following definition of the broad strategy for reform of education
finance and management, substantial further work is needed in developing detailed policies and in refining
and coordinating these policies on the basis of experience in pilot implementation. This on-going work,
which is the responsibility of the inter-ministerial Working Group on Education Finance and Management,
includes: definition of compulsory core curriculum to be state funded; establishment of norms and
standards for the rationalization of schools and staffing in urban and rural areas; analysis of the savings
from rationalization; definition of the per capita funding formula, based on the revised norms, with
differentials for remote and poor areas and other special needs; defining an appropriate legal and regulatory
framework for school Boards of Trustees, the governance of autonomous schools, and the operation of
private schools, establishing accountability and distinguishing responsibilities at the central, marz, hamaik
and school levels; defining the information and consultation needs of management and of the general public;
promoting and monitoring pilot operations; developing monitoring and assessment systems consistent with
the new institutional framework and management information system. During the course of project
implementation, the Working Group will be responsible for preparing an annual review of policy
development, for discussion with IDA, and this review will provide the basis for design of on-going
assistance to the Group under the project.
2.25   To help develop their national programs and to help identify their areas of relative strength and
need, the MoES also intends to make increasing use of the international flow of information and integration
into the world education communities, including participation in international educational organizations.
Armenia has been relatively cut off from these activities in the field of general education and the project
will support its integration, including the possibility of participating in international statistical improvement
projects and international comparative assessments.



14
2.26   Public information and consultation. The project will also support information, consultation and
consensus building activities to facilitate the design and implementation of rationalization, decentralization
and other reforms in the sector. Activities will include surveys and focus groups to gauge stakeholder
opinion and understanding on the reform process; information dissemination through newsletters, radio and
television, as well as national and local workshops to promote public consultation and professional
dialogue on education reform.
2.27   Management information system. Management of the reforms will require an improved system of
collecting, managing and sharing education data. In the course of project preparation, a pilot computerized
decision support system was established in the Ministry of Education, with comprehensive data at the
regional level on school buildings, enrollments, teachers and other staff, costs, and student performance.
The system is designed to facilitate policy dialogue on the opportunities for improving efficiency in the
general education sector. It is proposed under the project to develop a database of school level data,
establishing a computer network that will facilitate the sharing of this information between the central
MoES and the regions, for the purposes of (i) monitoring inputs to support the rationalization process and
(ii) improved monitoring and analysis of school performance and of education outputs, which will become
increasingly important as the rationalization process is completed and as more schools are granted
autonomous status.
2.28   Pilot rationalization process. Reversing the recent deterioration in general education in Armenia
will require major systemic reforms. The existing allocation of buildings, teachers and other staff to general
education in Armenia is highly generous and is unsustainable under present and projected levels of funding.
Many schools have idle capacity while some are overcrowded. In addition, there is great variation between
schools and even between regions in class sizes and staffing ratios. The first crucial element under the
reform strategy, therefore, is a rationalization program which will ensure more efficient use of buildings
and staff, on the basis of revised norms for staffing ratios, teaching hours, and size of classes and schools.
2.29   The MoES has carried out a study which provides the basis for detailed planning and
implementation of staffing rationalization and school consolidation; its report includes definition of the
recommended new norms and standards and analysis of the potential savings from implementing these
standards. The report is intended to initiate information sharing and dialogue with stakeholders on the
strategy for rationalization, the respective roles of the Marz education authorities and local municipalities
in school consolidation, and the role of individual schools in rationalization of staffing. The project will
support this dialogue and facilitate testing of decision making processes and implementation mechanisms
through two pilot exercises at the Marz level.
2.30   Items to be funded under this sub-component are: local and international TA, training and study
tours; subscriptions to international educational organizations; the productions of newsletters; purchase of
radio and television time; national and local workshops; field surveys; equipment including computer
hardware and software.



15
Sub-Component B: Capacity Building for School Autonomy (US$1.2 million)
2.31   Training to support school autonomy. The next major step of the government's reform strategy is
to facilitate improvements in efficiency and school performance by increasing the legal and financial
autonomy of schools. The Government has adopted a Model Charter for autonomous schools, defining the
proposed roles of School Boards and school directors and their relationship with Marz and central
authorities. This Charter will be tested with a few schools on a pilot basis in 1997/98 and revised in 1998
on the strength of this experience. The new status of legal entity will be granted to schools which apply for
this status and which meet specified criteria: for example, haying satisfied parameters defined in the
rationalization plan concerning enrollment demand, buildings, school size, and staffing ratios; and having
an active elected school board.
2.32   Autonomous schools will receive per pupil funding on a lump sum basis from the government,
weighted according to a poverty index for the school community and other special needs. They will have the
right to raise funds from other sources, to charge fees for services outside the core curriculum, and to
allocate their expenditures as they see fit. The project will help to finance the substantial training that will
be needed to enable school directors and board members to carry out their new responsibilities effectively.
School performance in meeting its core responsibilities will be monitored by the Marz education
departments.
2.33   Items to be funded under this sub-component are: foreign and local TA, study tours, workshops
and semninars, production and printing of training manuals and other training materials, transport costs and
per diem for trainers and trainees, and the purchase of small equipment such as projectors and flip boards.
Sub-Component C: Pilot School Improvement Program (SIP) (US$2 million)
2.34   This sub-component will support implementation of the policy for school autonomy by channeling
resources for school improvement directly to the schools. Under the recent conditions of severe
underfunding of schools from the public budget, schools have depended for their survival on informal
payments from parents and the contributions of external benefactors. In many cases, schools have
deemonstrated considerable dynamism and have been highly effective in organizing their survival. The
objective of this sub-component, therefore, is to promote local initiatives to improve school performance,
helping schools to mobilize additional resources and formalize community contributions to their funding
and management. The SIP will make grant funds available to qualifying individual schools on the basis of
expenditure priorities determined by their elected parent-teacher boards.
2.35   Any school which can demonstrate that it meets the specified criteria may submit proposals on an
annual basis for micro-projects to a maximum of US$15,000 and an estimated average of US$ 12,000.
Community contributions of 10% of the project cost will be required. Other criteria for eligibility will
include (i) autonomous status, with an active school board composed of the principal and elected parents
and teachers, according to prescribed national guidelines; (ii) a business plan for improving school
performance, based on locally defined objectives, prepared by the board and adopted by a majority vote of
parents; (iii) commitment to on-going monitoring and reporting of performance indicators--including those
defined by the Ministry and those defined by the boards themselves. Schools will be supported in meeting
these criteria by training programs and by regional Education Department staff.
2.36   The program will be administered by a unit within the PMU which will also be responsible for
central procurement of some items, for an information program to publicize the objectives and operational
criteria of the program, and arranging for assistance to schools, through the regional education authorities.
in drawing up business plans and satisfying the eligibility criteria. Microproject proposals will be appraised



16
by a special steering committee which will be responsible for ensuring that school eligibility criteria are met
and that proposals meet specified guidelines.
2.37 Under this sub-comnponent, the project will finance goods and services for school improvement
projects designed at the school level according to locally determined priorities. (Inftastructure and civil
works projects--which are handled under the SIF--will not be funded under this program.) The project will
also finance (i) information dissemination, (ii) training of Marz level education staff in advising and
supporting schools wanting to participate in the program; and (iii) the transportation and related expenses
of Marz level staff in providing support to individual school principals and members of school boards.
Component III: SuPPOrt for Proiect Implementation (US$1 million)
2.38   A Project Preparation Unit has already been established in the Ministry of Education to administer
preparation and pilot activities under PHRD and PPF funds. This project will finance salaries, equipment
and operating costs for an expanded unit to meet the needs of project implementation.
2.39   The primary responsibilities of the Project Management Unit PMU) will be:
(i) Procurement of equipment, materials and TA: the PMU will provide appropriate technical
expertise to conduct procurement through the most advantageous method of bid solicitation and
contract administration, and provide guidance on selection and contract procedures for technical
assistance.
(ii) Progress reporting: the PMU will monitor progress in project implementation, including
outcome targets, and prepare regular progress reports on physical and financial progress,
highlighting implementation issues and proposing resolutions, and incorporate the findings of
quantitative and qualitative surveys for annual social assessment in the monitoring and reporting
process.
(iii) Accounts, disbursements and audits: the PMU will keep project accounts, administer contract
payments, and arrange for annual audits.
2.40 Items to be funded under this component include: office equipment and furniture; vehicles; local
TA; training and study tours for PMU staff, and the recurrent costs of operating the unit, including
salaries, transport costs and per diem, maintenance of vehicles and equipment, office supplies,
telecommunications and utilities.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FiNANCING
3.1   Project Costs. Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$ 23.9 million. A
summary of the cost estimates by component is provided below in Table 3.1. Cost estimates by
expenditure category are presented in Annex 9.



17
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component
(IJS$ Million)       Foreign     Total Base
Components                Local    For'n    Total   Exchange /a    Costs /a
1. Textbook Production and  Distribution  12.6     4.3    16.9          26          75
2. Capacity Building for Reform Management  3.7    0.9    4.6           20           20
3. Support for Project hnplementation    0.8       0.2     1.0          20            5
Total BASELINE COSTS                    17.1       5.4    22.5          24          100
Physical Contingencies                     0        0       0            0            0
Price Contingencies                      1.1       0.3     1.4          21            6
Total PROJECT COSTS                     18.2       5.7    23.9          24          106
a_I    The relation between local and foreign costs may change depending on local inflation  and exchange rate
movemnents.
3.2    Project cost estimates are based on 1997 prices. Due to the evolving nature of the Armenian
economy, all estimated costs are based on the US dollar. The estimated total foreign cost is US$ 5.7
million, or 24% of baseline costs.
3.3    Project Financing. The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 15 million would finance about 63% of the
estimated total project cost--98% of foreign and 52% of local costs. The national contribution to the project
is estimated at US$ 8.7 million, equivalent to 36% of total project costs. The national contribution will
consist of an estimated US$ 0.2 million of community contributions to the School Improvement Program,
US$ 7.2 million of parents' contributions to the Textbook Production and Distribution component, and
US$1.3 million government contribution. The government contribution, meeting 5% of project costs,
consists of three elements: an estimated $0.8 million equivalent in cash contributions to the textbook rental
scheme; $0.35 million equivalent in kind for distribution of textbooks from regional centers to schools; and
$0.15 million equivalent in direct contribution to project costs. UNDP and UNICEF will provide $0.1
million grant financing for the Training for School Autonomy component, while UNDP has committed $0.1
million for piloting of the School Improvement Program; this is in addition to the US$0.62 million, already
contributed in 1997 by five different donors (including UNDP and UNICEF) to the pilot textbook
production program, and not included in the financing plan (Table 3.2).
3.4    Parents' contribution to the textbook component will be provided through a rental scheme for
textbooks. Rental fees (which will be calculated by August of each year on the basis of the estimated
replacement cost of the books, assuming a four year book life) will be deposited in school accounts opened
in a commercial Bank in Armenia and managed by an NGO, the Textbook Fund, created especially for that
purpose. Ninety percent of the total revolving fund requirements will be met from parental contributions
while ten percent will be met by the government, to finance the rental fees of the poorest pupils.
Approximately 60% of the total government contribution to the project will be disbursed directly to the
Textbook Fund through annual payments, the exact amount of which will be determined by the rental fee
level established for that year by the Textbook Working Group of the MoES. Budgetary allocations for this
purpose will be made each year on the basis of projected levels of rental fees, also provided by the
Textbook Working Group. The government will also be responsible for meeting the costs of textbook
distribution from the regional centers to individual schools. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and
Economy will disburse funds every semester in the project account, totalling approximately $150,000. As
conditions of credit effectiveness, the Project Account shall have been opened and the Borrower shall
have made an initial deposit equivalent to US$35,000 into this account (para. 6.2 (a)l.



18
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(USS Million)
Local      Foreign     Total
Govermnent ofArmenia                  1.3         0           1.3
Local Communities                     7.4         0           7.4
Donors                                0.1         0.1         0.2
]DA                                   9.4         5.6         15
Total                                 18.2        5.7         23.9
B. PROCUREMENT
Procurement Arrangements
3.5    All procurement will follow World Bank procurement guidelines. Procurement of goods financed
with IDA credit would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, as revised in January and August 1996. Consulting services
would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines on Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, dated January 1997. Standard Bank Bidding Documents would be used for Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and consultant selection. For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), bidding
documents based on the Bank's standard bidding documents, amended as necessary to local conditions and
approved by the Bank, would be used. The Draft Country Procurement Review note was completed in June
1997. A General Procurement Notice will be published in Development Business in November 1997.
Civil works
3.6   The project will finance minor civil works estimated at US$ 97,000 for office rehabilitation. All
contracts will be under US$ 30,000 and could be awarded on the basis of three written quotations and for a
maximum aggregated amount of US$ 100,000.
Goods and services
3.7   The project will finance goods and services for a total amount of US$ 10.5 million. Goods to be
procured will include computer systems, small equipment and furniture for schools, sundries, teaching
materials and textbooks.
3.8    Computer systems will be bundled into a procurement package estimated to exceed US$ 200,000
and will be procured according to International Competitive Bidding procedures. Vehicles and office
equipment as well as equipment for schools for the Pilot School Improvement Programn for contracts less
than US$ 200,000 will be procured using International Shopping Procedures. Under the SIP, goods will be
procured semi-annually by the PMU based on a list of school equipment acceptable to IDA and requested
by individual schools. The maximum aggregate amount for goods procured under International Shopping
procedures will be US$ 950,000.
3.9    Under the SIP, when contracts are less than US$ 30,000 and the goods are available locally, the
community will be procuring the goods according to National Shopping procedures which will be described
in detail in the SIP Operational Manual; these goods will consist primarily of classroom furniture. Small
office equipment for the PMU will also be procured under these procedures. The maximum aggregate
amount for goods procured under National Shopping Procedures will be US$ 1.0 million.



19
3.10   Contracts inferior to US$ 10,000 for using TV and radio time for the public information program
estimated to cost US$ 50,000 in aggregate, will be procured using the Direct Contracting procedures,
because services are obtainable from only one source.
3.11   The major procurement under this project would be textbooks US$ 8.1 financed by IDA. In the
case of textbooks in the Armenian language, it is likely that only publishers from Armenia or foreign
publishers in association with local firms will be interested. Individual contracts are expected to be small,
estimated at less than US$ 400,000 per contract. NCB procedures acceptable to IDA would therefore be
used to procure these items, up to a maximum aggregate amount of US$6.5 million. For foreign language
textbooks for which international publishers might be interested, ICB procedures will be used. However,
for all procurement of textbooks, all embassies will be informed and notices will be posted in appropriate
international journals so that interested publishers based abroad will be informed. These procedures have
been tested under the pilot textbook program funded under the PPF and have been considered acceptable to
IDA. All interested publishers have received training and a number of international publishers have shown
interest in participating in the bidding. These procedures will allow for a widely published and open
competitive bidding process in which domestic and foreign publishers will be eligible to participate on an
equal basis. Bidding documents to be used for the procurement of textbooks are based on Bank's standard
bidding documents for the procurement of textbooks. There would be about 40 packages. Bidding
documents for the first year have already been submitted to IDA.
Training. Technical Assistance. and Studies.
3.12   Consultant services under the project would be required to assist with the implementation of all
project components. It is estimated that consultant services, studies and training will be equivalent to US$
2.6 million of which technical assistance represents US$ 1.1 million and training US$ 1.5 million.
Consultants services for an amount estimated at US$ 700,000 will be procured under five contracts
awarded under quality and cost based selection methods in accordance with section II of the Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997. Consultant
services for a total amount of US$ 400,000 will be procured under contracts awarded to individual
consultants in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Individual consultants will be used for the
preparation of the rationalization plan, support for the School Improvement Program, curriculum
development and training for school autonomy. The PMU will have the capacity to hire individual
consultants, which will be the prime responsibility of the program officer. Many of the assignments will be
relatively short term and quite specialized and will not need additional outside professional support.
Consultant firms are still very few in Armenia and are not well equipped; however many individual
consultants are available on the market with good technical skills and experience, at considerably lower
cost than international consultants. The Ministry of Education and Science will establish a consultant
selection committee and contracts will be awarded based on the review of at least three candidates. The
committee meetings will have detailed minutes justifying the selection of consultants. The quarterly report
will have a section providing information about procurement of consultants and a consultant procurement
plan for the next three months.
3.13   Training will cover fellowships abroad for two people satisfying precise selection criteria and
commitment to return to certain positions. The project will also finance short term training abroad, as well
as study tours and seminars and workshops in Armenia. Fellowships and organization of study tours will
be financed for students satisfying the selection committee which will review the candidates and ensure that
the choice of candidates is relevant to the project objectives and activities. Fellowships and study tours will
be procured from firms, universities and other training institutions based on Quality Based Selection (QBS)
procedures as described in paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.



20
Table 3.3: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) a/
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method                                  Total Cost
ICB         NCB          Other b/     N.B.F c/    0mlingencies)
l.Civil Works                                                  0.1                       0.1
(0.1)                     (0.1)
2. Goods
2.1 Textbooks                     1.8          6.3                       8.4          16.5
(1.8)        (6.3)                                 (8.1)
2.2 Computer Systems.             0.3                                                 0.3
(0.3)                                              (0.3)
2.3 Equipment and Furniture                                 2.3                       2.3
(2.0)                    (2.0)
2.4 Information Campaign                                    0.1                       0.1
(0.1)                    (0.1)
4. Consulting Services
4.1  Technical Assistance                                   1.2                       1.2
(1.2)                    (1.2)
4.2 Training and Study Tours                                1.5                       1.5
(1.5)                    (1.5)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Recurrent Costs                                        0.9                       0.9
(0.8)                    (0.8)
5.3 Refund to PPF                                           1                        1
(1)                      (1)
Total                             2.1          6.3          7.1          8.4          23.9
(2.1)        (6.3)        (6.6)                     15
Notes:  a/ Figures in parenthesis represent IDA financing; bl Under Civil Works, National Shopping 0.1 (0.1); under
Equipment and Furniture, International Shopping for equipment not available locally 1.1 (1.1); NS for small equipment and
fumiturel .2 (0.9); International Shopping for vehicles 0.04 (0.04 ); under hiformation Campaign, DC 0.1 (0.1) for TV and
radio spots and articles and advertisement in newspapers; under Technical Assistance, consultants QCBS 0.7 (0.7) and
individual consultants 0.4 (0.4); Training refers to fellowship and study tours for candidates selected through procedures and
conditions acceptable to IDA and procured under QBS 1.5 (1.5); Recurrent Costs financed from the IDA credit refers to PMU
operating costs: incremental staff salaries, perdiem for field trips, recurrent expenditures for workshops, and utilities and office
supplies; c/ NBF refers to (i) rental fees paid by parents for textbooks and Government financing of these fees for the 10%
poorest households [these fees will be managed by the Textbook Fund and used to procure textbooks after the project ends],
and (ii) 0.35 government financing of distribution of textbooks from regional centers to schools.
Miscellaneous Expenditures
3.14    The project would finance incremental costs incurred by the PMU and the project staff.
Incremental expenditures would include: (a) maintenance and operation of equipment procured and rented
under the project; and (b) salaries of PMU staff and per diem paid to PMU staff and project staff for field
trips and field work carried out for project purposes; (c) consumable office supplies; and (d) office
maintenance and refurbishing, utilities and telecommunications pertaining to the project. PMU staff will be
recruited on fixed term contracts through a competitive mechanism acceptable to IDA. Items under
recurrent expenditures will be procured on the basis of administrative procedures based on schedule and
budget acceptable to IDA.



21
Procurement Review
3.15 For goods and services, all contracts under ICB procedures and all contracts exceeding
US$200,000 under NCB procedures would be subject to prior IDA review. For consulting services, prior
review is required for all contracts with individuals exceeding US$ 50,000, all contracts with consulting
firms exceeding US$ 100,000, and terms of reference for all contracts irrespective of the contract value.
Other contracts will be subject to IDA ex-post review during supervision of the project, in accordance with
the procurement guidelines.
Procurement Plan and Monitoring
3.16 The procurement plan for the project is presented in Annex 7.
C. DISBURSEMENT
3.17 The proposed IDA credit of US$ 15 million would be disbursed over a period of four years with an
estimated completion date of December 31, 2001 and a closing date of June 30, 2002. All disbursements
would be against standard documentation as described in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook. A special
category has been created for textbooks separated from other goods and services because textbooks in
Armenia are not subjected to VAT, and therefore the credit can finance 100% of local costs for textbooks.
Disbursement of the credit proceeds will be as follows:
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         US$ million   Financing Percentage
1. Civil works               0.1           80% of local expenditures
2. Goods and services        2.6           100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local exp. (ex-
factory cost); 80% other locally procured items
3. Textbooks                 7.1           100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local exp. (ex-
factory cost); 80% other locally procured items
4. Training, fellowships, TA  2.5          100% of total expenditures
5. Incremental recurrent exp.    0.8       100% of total expenditures
6. Refund to PPF             0.9
7. Unallocated               1
Total                        15
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY 1998    FY 1999    FY2000    FY2001    FY2002    Total:
IDA                  1.0        2.25        5. 0        5.75        1.0         15
3.18 Statements of Expenditure. Disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) for contracts and expenditures below US$ 200,000, for consulting firms for contracts below US$
100,000, and for individual consultants, training, fellowships, and studies for contracts under US$ 50,000.



22
(All terms of reference will be cleared with the Bank.) The documentation to support these expenditures
would be retained by the PMU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year
in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the
Bank and auditors upon request. Full documentation would be required for withdrawals for contracts above
the SOE threshold levels. The PMU will ensure that all supporting documentation is adequately maintained
and available for review at the request of the Bank.
3.19   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will maintain a Special
Account (SA) in US$ in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The SA will
be managed by the PMU. The maximum authorized allocation of the SA would be US$ 600,000. During
the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the SA would be limited to US$ 300,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of SDR 2,000,000, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 600,000 by submitting the relevant
Application for Withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishments would follow the standard Bank procedures as described in the
Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the SA, reconciled by the Borrower,
would accompany all replenishment requests.
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.20   The Borrower will be responsible for appropriate accounting and auditing of the project, for
reporting the use of project funds, and for ensuring that the audits of project accounts are submitted to the
Bank. The PMU, on behalf of the Borrower, has established appropriate accounting systems to provide
information on the sources and uses of funds in accordance with the Credit Agreement. The PMU, having
the overall responsibility for project coordination and reporting, will: (a) ensure accountability for project
funds; (b) maintain records of receipts and disbursements of all funds used for the project; (c) maintain
internal controls to ensure that receipts and payments are accurately recorded in a timely basis, and that
assets and liabilities are adequately controlled; (d) report on the use of funds; (e) facilitate verification of
these reports by independent auditors; and (f) provide information, as required, to the Bank. The PMU will
maintain accounts for project funds separately from any other existing accounts. Project accounts will be
maintained according to International Accounting Standards (IAS).
3.21   The PMU will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for submitting to the Bank annual audits
of project accounts no later than six months after the end of each financial year (January 1 - December 31)
of project accounts kept at the PMU. Records and accounts of the project, including the Special Account,
for each fiscal year will be audited by independent qualified auditors acceptable to IDA, according to terms
of reference acceptable to IDA, in accordance with international standards. Audit reports to the Bank will
contain separate opinions on: (a) compliance by the implementing agencies with relevant covenants of the
Credit Agreement; (b) the Statements of Expenditures; and (c) the Special Account.



23
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.1    The Ministry of Education and Science will be responsible for project implementation and a
Project Management Unit (PMU) will be set up in the MoES to provide all the necessary logistical support.
The PMU will be an extension of the existing Project Preparation Unit. The two working groups which
have been responsible for the preparation of sectoral strategies and the design of project components will be
maintained to participate in the project activities, in particular (a) the coordination of curriculum revision
with the textbook publishing program and (b) continuing guidance of the school rationalization and
decentralization programs. A Project Steering Committee will be set up with representatives of the
Ministerial departments directly involved in project implementation and of the Ministry of Finance and
Economy.
Project Management Unit at the Ministry of Education
4.2    Staff of the PMU will include the PMU Director, an administrative and finance officer, an
accountant, a project officer for the textbook component, a procurement specialist, and an
interpreter/project secretary. Suitably qualified core staff have been recruited through a competitive
process. The PMU will receive policy guidance from, and will act as a secretary of, the Project Steering
Committee. It will report to the Project Steering Committee and will be responsible for the timely
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities. Funds are allocated under the project for
external and local technical assistance that may be required. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Borrower shall maintain the PMU within the MoES with staff and other
resources, satisfactory to IDA, which shall carry out the implementation of the project [para 6.1 (a)].
4.3    Specific tasks of the PMU will include: (a) coordinate implementation of project activities and
ensure that resources are utilized in accordance with the project implementation plan and project objectives;
(b) monitor project implementation and project impact and report to the Project Steering Committee and to
IDA; (c) manage procurement, contracting and disbursement operations for the project; (d) prepare
quarterly and yearly reports on status of implementation to the Steering Committee and IDA; (e) maintain
project accounts and ensure timely preparation and submission of annual audits; (f) facilitate coordination
with donors and NGOs active in the education sector; (g) ensure close coordination with all project
stakeholders, including the Ministry of Finance and Economy; (h) support the two working groups in their
tasks by hiring local and international consultants when needed and by providing logistical support.
Project Steering Committee
4.4    The Project Steering Committee, to be chaired by the Minister of Education and Science, will be
composed of the Deputy Minister for General Education, the Head of the Department of General
Education, the Head of the Department of Finance, the Head of the Pedagogical Institute, and
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, regional and school level administration. The
Project Steering Committee will meet at least every quarter to discuss the project quarterly report and
annual report as well as the quarterly and yearly work program. Donors participating in the project, such as
UNICEF and UNDP, will be invited to attend meetings. It will also meet on the request of its Chairman or
the head of the PMU to discuss any important issue relevant to project implementation. Assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the Borrower will maintain the Project Steering Committee
through the life of the project [para. 6.1 (b)].



24
Management of the Pilot School Improvement Program
4.5    The Pilot School Improvement Program (SIP) will be managed by a separate small unit attached to
the PMU and will consist of a SIP program officer, who will head the unit, a logistical officer, a promotion
officer, two appraisal and monitoring officers and an administrative assistant. A SIP Steering Committee
will be set up and will include the Deputy Minister of General Education, the Heads of the Departments of
General Education and Finance, the SIP program officer and the head of the PMU. This Committee will
review the progress of the program, approve microprojects appraised by the Unit, approve yearly budgets
and reports, and provide advice and guidance to the head of the SIP when requested. An operational manual
(OM) will guide the operations of the program and describe in detail the functions of the SIP Unit and the
SIP Steering Committee. The implementation plan, including full eligibility and oper,ational criteria will be
confirmed during negotiations. Adoption by Government of the final SIP OM acceptable to IDA will
be a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 6.2 (b)]. Assurances were received during negotiations
that the Borrower will not change or waive the provisions of the OM without prior consent of IDA
and shall follow procedures and criteria set forth in the OM for selection of microprojects [para. 6.1
(c)].
4.6    The functions of the Unit will be to (a) promote the activities of the program, and explain and
coordinate dissemination of information on its purpose and operation; (b) coordinate provision of support
to schools in preparing proposals; (c) appraise proposals against the appraisal and selection criteria; (d)
coordinate with the Social Investment Fund for the physical rehabilitation of the schools; (e) present the
projects that have been successfully appraised to the SIP Steering Committee; (f) prepare and sign the
framework agreements with the schools; (f) procure some items of equipment for the schools; (g) monitor
microproject implementation; (h) coordinate with the departments in the Ministries and the staff of the
regions participating in the program; (i) maintain the program accounts and monitor physical progress.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower shall maintain a SIP Unit within the
PMU which shall be responsible for management of the SIP, and the SIP Steering Committee which
shall be reponsible for approval of microprojects selected by SIP Unit [para. 6.1 (d)l.
4.7   In order to keep the SIP Unit small and to integrate the activities of the program as much as
possible in the Ministry of Education and regional education administration, promotion and monitoring
activities and support to the school communities will be carried out by the education staff of the regions
and by some staff from the Ministry's Department of General Education. They will receive training for this
purpose and the project will finance their transportation costs.
Working Groups and Role of Education Departments in Project Implementation
4.8    The two working groups set up in the MoES during project preparation--one for preparation of the
education management and financing strategy and the other for preparation of the textbook strategy--will be
maintained. The first will be responsible for (a) reassessment of norms and standards for allocation of
resources for general education, (b) liaison with Marz education authorities in preparation and
implementation of pilot consolidation plans, (c) liaison with the Ministry of Finance and Economy and
Marz officials concerning the legal, managerial and financial framework for school autonomy, training of
school principals and monitoring of pilot implementation of the new status for schools. The MoES has
confirmed the status and membership of this group. Assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
Borrower will maintain the Finance and Management Working Group through the life of the project
[para. 6.1 (e)J.
4.9.  The working group on education management and finance will also be responsible for further
development and application of the management information system in the MoES. The system, including a



25
database on schools in Armenia, was set up during project preparation with the support of an external
consultant. For reasons of short term convenience, this database was situated in the external relations
department of the MoES. The system has been designed as a management tool whose primary users will be
the Ministry's Departments of General Education and Finance, and the working group on management and
finance. It has been agreed that the database will be transferred to a new MoES management information
unit and that key staff of the Ministry will receive training and will have direct access to the system. As an
interim measure, until the management information unit is established, the MIS has been transferred to the
PMU.
4.10   The working group on textbooks will have the following tasks: (a) ensure that preparation of
curriculum guidelines for the interim curriculum for the next four years continues to be coordinated with
the schedule for textbook publishing; (b) provide the necessary technical specifications and curriculum,
syllabus and methodological guidelines for incorporation in bidding documents; (c) coordinate the
dissemination of information to parents and schools on management of the textbook rental scheme and
revolving funds; and (d) liaise with Marz education authorities to consolidate the textbook requirements of
individual schools; (e) establish a computerized system for future consolidation of orders from schools. An
independent Curriculum Committee will be set up to review each set of curriculum guidelines prior to
incorporation in bidding documents, to confirm that the guidelines meet appropriate standards, are
consistent with other instructions to publishers in the documents, are not weighted unduly in favor of any
existing textbook, and that they permit open and genuine competition among publishers. The report of the
Curriculum Committee will constitute part of each bidding package for textbook procurement submitted for
IDA's no objection. the MoES has confirmed the status and membership of this group. Assurance was
received during negotiations that the Borrower shall maintain this Working Group through the life of
the project [para. 6.1 (g)1.
4.11   The department of education at the level of each Marz will be responsible for preparing the
regional school consolidation plans and for promoting and monitoring the activities of the Pilot School
Improvement Program. Each department of the MoES concerned with a particular component will be
responsible for ensuring that project activities are carried out in accordance with agreed upon project
objectives.
B. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND SUPERVISION
4.12   To monitor project progress and evaluate project outcomes, a set of project performance indicators
has been developed (Annex 5) and included in Project Implementation Plans. The indicators provide a
framework for systematic monitoring of project implementation progress and will serve as a basis for the
quarterly and yearly reports on project implementation. They include both process and outcome targets
covering fiscal impact, improved use of resources, changes in access to services, cost savings from
rationalization programs, client satisfaction etc. Some of the indicators will be monitored through
qualitative and quantitative surveys based on the model of the Social Assessment which was successfully
conducted during project preparation. The project will finance such surveys at the end of each fiscal year.
Other indicators will be monitored through administrative and financial data already collected regularly by
the Ministry. Capacity in data collection, management and analysis will be improved under the project
through computerization of key units in the Ministry and network with Marz education departments.
4.13   Evaluation of project progress and adoption of the necessary corrective actions will be important to
the project, particularly in view of the fact that this is the Bank's first education project in Annenia.
Therefore, in addition to the regular project progress evaluation activities, a mid-term evaluation will be
carried out jointly by the Borrower and the Bank, after two years of project implementation. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that an evaluation report will be



26
prepared, under TOR satisfactory to IDA, and furnished to IDA on or about October 31, 1999, to
serve as a basis for the joint Bank-Borrower mid-term review of project progress [para. 6.1 (h)1. This
report would indicate the project progress from inception and propose additional measures and changes as
necessary to ensure achievement of project objectives.
4.14   In addition, because of the importance of piloting and monitoring the introduction of new policies,
the Finance and Management Working Group will be responsible for preparing an annual review of policy
development, for discussion with the IDA. This report will provide the basis for the design of on-going
assistance to the working group under the project. Assurances will be obtained during negotiations that
the Finance and Management Working Group will provide an annual evaluation report on policy
development in the education sector not later than July 31 of each calendar year, including the
proposed work program for the next 12-month period [para. 6.1 (f).
4.15   The project will be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and the Yerevan World
Bank Office. Because of the lack of experience of the MoES with Bank project implementation and
procurement procedures, the importance of pilot processes in the project, and the special supervision
requirements of the pilot school improvement program including supervision at the school level, the project
will require important supervision effort from the Bank. It is expected that supervision of the SIP, which
will involve many field visits, will be carried out with the active support of the Resident Mission.
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. LINKAGE wITH ESW AND CAS
5.1    As explained in section 2.B, the proposed project is an integral feature of the new CAS for
Annenia (1997), which gives high priority to the objective of ensuring social sustainability of the reform
process by improving the quality and coverage of basic education and health services. In recomnmending
this emphasis in Bank support, the CAS draws on the findings of the poverty assessment (1996), education
sector analysis commissioned in 1995, a public expenditure review (1996) and 3 years of active policy
dialogue on the social sectors in Armenia with, in particular, an important social sector component in the
Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC I and SAC II). The CAS endorses the government's broad policy for
reform of the education sector.
5.2    Key issues identified by the CAS in the sector include: raising the level of funding to general
education; reallocating resources within the sector to increase efficiency and concentrate public funding on
compulsory general education; making services more demand driven and encouraging private sector
participation; using resources more effficiently through school consolidation, reductions in staff/student
ratios. The government has already made progress in some of these areas and is now proposing major
reforms in the finance and management of general education, to rationalize the deployment of buildings and
staff, and to devolve financial and management responsibilities to the school level. However, these reforms
are virtually impossible to implement within existing institutional and funding constraints. The CAS
includes Bank support to the reform of the general education system through both project and sectoral
adjustment lending (see section 1.E).



27
B. BENEFITS--COST EFFECTIVENESS--DESIGN ALTERNATIVES
5.3   Selection of project components. Project components have been selected to achieve maximum
benefits with the given level of funds in terms of building the necessary institutional framework, processes
and capacity to implement the reform strategy and at the same time have a direct rapid impact on pupils
access to essential education inputs (textbooks and improvement of schools). The project addresses
capacity building needs at all levels--central, Marz and school--but gives most attention to the school level,
because this is where the results are needed, where priorities can best be identified, where the primary
burden of managerial responsibility is to be placed, and where the chances of success are the greatest.
Capacity building will focus on three key areas of the government's reform strategy: textbook provision,
school consolidation and school autonomy. The project intervenes in the education system through a
combination of supply and demand driven approaches.
5.4    Textbook component. The benefits of the textbook component will be: (i) a sustainable, cost
recovering system for provision of textbooks, to be driven ultimately by choices made at the school level;
(ii) establishment of stable, transparent and efficient processes for procurement and distribution of
textbooks; more competitive and efficient publishing and printing industries; (iii) reduced costs to parents
of better quality books; and (iv) access to core textbooks for all pupils. Throughout design of this
component, attention has been given to minimizing the costs to parents by reducing the number of required
books, improving durability and amortizing costs over an estimated four years.
5.5    Capacity building for reform management component. The benefits of this component will be: (i)
an institutional framework and processes for schools rationalisation and for granting of autonomous status
to schools; (ii) improved efficiency and sustainability of the general education system through reassessment
of building and staffing ratios and reallocation of resources to teachers' salaries, teaching materials and
buildings maintenance; (iii) improvement of school performance through incentives to parental and
community participation, channeling funds directly to schools, and improving the management and
financial skills of principals and school board members; and (iv) improved capacity at the marz and central
levels for supporting and monitoring the performance of schools, through training and computerization.
Design of the pilot schools improvement program presented a number of trade-offs: a balance was sought
between minimizing the costs of administering the fund, spreading the benefits to as many schools as
possible, encouraging innovation and initiative in improving the quality of schooling, and building school
level institutions.
5.6    Two areas of urgent concern in the general education sector were considered but not included for
funding under the project: reconstruction and rehabilitation of school buildings; and improvements in
teachers' salaries and training. School construction activities were ruled out because an appropriate
mechanism already exists, through the Social Investment Fund (SIF). The project will collaborate closely
with the SIF project to coordinate interventions and increase the impact of both projects. The issue of
additional funding for teachers' salaries and training is a matter of recurrent rather than investment finance,
and the SAC is expected to improve this situation. Another potentially important area is the need for reform
of curriculum and teaching methods to focus more on the adaptive skills needed in a market economy.
However, there is still strong resistance on the part of many educators and the general public to any
changes which might jeopardize traditional standards. Dialogue will be maintained in this field during
project implementation, and the transparent processes for development and evaluation of curricula will be
established through the textbook component.



28
C. RISKS--SUSTAINABILITY
5.7    A significant risk for project implementation and the sustainability of benefits is that changes in the
political and administrative leadership in the education sector could impede future actions necessary to
implement ambitious systemic reforms. This risk has been reduced by putting the definition of reform
strategy and project preparation in the hands of inter-ministerial working groups, which will also be closely
involved in project implementation, and by involving other key stakeholders in the dialogue though
workshops and conferences. Nevertheless, some aspects of the reform process remain controversial while
others are not widely known or understood. There is a risk of effective public opposition to some of the
reform measures unless a concerted program of public information and consultation is maintained. Such a
program will be supported by the project.
5.8    This risk is smaller for the textbook component, which was designed with the benefit of wide
consultation and commands substantial public support. Some specific risks are associated with the
textbook component, however. First, budgeted production costs may be insufficient for the books required
because of uncertainties in the costing process, in particular the difficulty in predicting world paper prices.
In this case either additional funds will be sought or fewer books will be produced. Second, the school-
based revolving funds may not accumulate sufficiently, for example if parental contributions do not occur
at the predicted rate, or if books fail to last for four years. This eventuality could be addressed in a number
of ways, e.g., through annual reassessment of the rental fee or through book-sharing arrangements. Third,
genuine competition among publishers and printers may not occur because of the relatively small number of
local companies. This risk is considered small, especially in the case of foreign language books, because of
the clear interest already displayed by international companies; also, the risk is minimized by intensive
training of publishers and bid evaluators, as well as supervision of the procurement process, that is built
into the project. In addition, the experience of the pilot phase has fed into design of this component.
5.9    Lack of experience by the MoES in project implementation and competitive procurement also
presents a risk which is addressed through provision for substantial TA and training for the PMU. A
further risk is that the country's tight fiscal constraints may prevent the government from making the
necessary counterpart funds available on a timely basis, thus preventing important project activities from
being carried out effectively. Similarly, shortage of funds may prevent key activities from being carried out
after project completion. This risk is being minimized by limiting counterpart contributions to a critical
minimum--and the constraints may be eased somewhat by the proposed sectoral adjustment loan.
D. FISCAL IMPACT--COST RECOVERY
5.10 Sector strategy. The share of total government expenditure allocated to education is planned to
increase, in order to achieve adequate funding for universal basic education. The thrust of the government's
strategy, supported by the second structural adjustment credit, is to achieve improvements in the quality
and sustainability of the general education system by (i) progressive increases in the level of public funding
to education, (ii) progressive increases in the share of the education budget devoted to general education
(iii) permitting more efficient allocation of funds within the system by consolidation of schools, reassessing
staffing norms and giving schools discretion over their own expenditure priorities, (iv) introducing cost
recovery for non-core services and (v) facilitating the mobilization of funds from other sources
5.11   Fiscal Impact of the project. The project will create negligible incremental recurrent costs after
the project end. The project should however, contribute to a more efficient allocation of funding through the
school rationalization component. Theoretically, rationalization of staffing throughout the system on the
basis of the MoES' proposed new norms and standards for class sizes and staffing ratios would lead to a
reduction of 12% in the number of teaching staff and to estimated overall savings equivalent to about 10%



29
of the total 1997 budget for general education. The proposed standards are still relatively generous and
would not be expected to have a negative impact on education outcomes. Pilot consolidation exercises
supported by the project will help to clarify what level of savings will be realizable in practice for
reallocation within the general education sector, what short term costs are involved, and what time-frame
can be assumed.
5.12   Textbook component. Full cost recovery has already been introduced for school textbooks. The
objective of the component is to reduce the costs of textbooks for parents and improve quality. In addition,
the government is committed to subsidizing the book rental fee for the poorest families: this represents the
resumption of a former policy which was recently abandoned in practice because of fiscal constraints. It is
estimated that the project will reduce the cost of textbooks to parents, through the rental scheme, by about
70% and that the system will be entirely self funded by the end of the project, with the exception of any
continuing subsidies that are found to be necessary to ensure that the poorest pupils have access to required
books.
5.13   Pilot School Improvement Program. Recurrent costs to sustain the activities of the pilot school
improvement program should be covered through parents' and community contributions and by the normal
level of state funding to the school. The schools, to be eligible for the SIP, will have to prepare a
sustainability plan indicating how they will raise additional revenues and how they will increase the
efficiency in the management of the financial resources available to improve school performance. The
commitment of the communities to the micro-projects will also be tested through their willingness to
contribute financially to the microproject.
E. SOCIAL ASSESSMENT--STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION
5.14   The social assessment of health and education revealed a variety of important information for
project design, including the strength of public concern about the deteriorating quality and high costs of
schooling, particular concern about the lack of textbooks, reluctance to embark on any significant changes
in curriculum or teaching methods, and ambivalence concerning potential involvement of parents in school
management issues. On-going social assessment will be a crucial element in project monitoring and
establishment of consultative processes. The project is expected to have benefits for social development,
specifically in building social capital at the level of the school community.
5.15   The textbook component was prepared with the benefit of extensive stakeholder consultation and
participation, with the result that the new processes are thought to have wide enough ownership to
withstand changes in leadership. Willingness to pay was tested through a series of regional parents'
meetings and in the social assessment. A national stakeholder workshop was held to discuss the broader
questions of education reform and further national and regional workshops will be supported by the project.
For the reform management component, piloting and demonstration activities will also be important in
building public confidence. lnformation programs are built into each of the project components.
F. POVERTY IMPACT
5.16   Sector strategy. The assurance of a high quality of compulsory general education for all children
is central to Armenia's prospects for alleviating transitional poverty, for preventing the emergence of longer
term structural poverty, and for maintaining social cohesion. It is also essential to meet the human capital
requirements for sustained economic growth--the basis for poverty reduction.The government's reform
strategy for general education would improve schooling quality and help to overcome the substantial
inequities which have arisen because of underfunding, as schools and teachers have been forced to seek



30
informal payments from parents and as textbooks have been available only to the wealthiest 30% of pupils.
Nevertheless, attention will be needed to the options for grades 9 and 10, to protect the needs of poor
children. In addition, the policy for school autonomy will need to be supported by strong central
commitment to monitor inequities in both quality and access and to vary the level of per capita funding
depending on poverty and other special needs.
5.17   Textbook component. The textbook component will benefit all pupils, by providing books at a
much lower cost than was previously the case. It will also subsidize the rental fee for those who are unable
to pay it. These subsidies will be paid by the government into each school's textbook account and will be
allocated at the school level, where each pupil's circumstances are best known.
5.18   Capacity building for reform management component, To the extent that the policies for
consolidation and school autonomy succeed in improving the quality of free basic education services, they
will also contribute to poverty alleviation. There is a risk, however, that autonomous schools, with the
formal right to raise their own funds and charge fees for "non-core" services, may become increasingly
unequal, and it is proposed that the intended lump sum per capita funding to autonomous schools be
weighted on the basis of a poverty index for the local community. The project will help build capacity of
the MoES and regional administrations in monitoring standards and equity between schools, through the
introduction of the new management information system.
G. INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
5.19   The lack of institutional capacity at all levels of education management in Armenia presents the
most serious constraint to successful project implementation. It is also the reason for giving such high
priority to capacity building in the design of the project. Institutional roles and relationships are frequently
unclear, experience is limited, communication is poor, teamwork skills are rare. Major objectives of the
project, therefore are to help clarify the new institutional framework, establish consultative mechanisms and
transparent processes for making decisions. Preparation and piloting of the textbook component has already
made progress in this respect and started to built confidence in the new procedures. The Project
Implementation Plan takes account of these issues by specifying roles and functions in detail, and by
drawing as many people as possible into the implementation process. There is a particular question of
capacity at the school level, to carry the additional managerial and financial responsibilities. The project
therefore allows for training of school principals and school board members in their new functions.



31
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1    During negotiations, the following assurances were received from the Government:
a) that the PMU, which shall be responsible for overall project implemention, will be maintained
within the MoES with staff and other resources and TOR satisfactory to IDA [para. 4.2].
b) that the Project Steering Committee, responsible for overseeing project implementation, will be
maintained through the life of the project [para. 4.41.
c) that the provisions of the Operational Manual for the SIP will not be changed or waived without
prior consent of IDA and that the procedures and criteria set forth in the OM for the selection of
microprojects will be followed [para. 4.5].
d) that the SIP Unit within the PMU, responsible for management of the SIP, and a SIP Steering
Committee, responsible for approval of microprojects selected by the SIP Unit, will be maintained
[para 4.6].
e) that the Finance and Management Working Group will be maintained through the life of the
project [para. 4.8].
f) that the Finance and Management Working Group will prepare and submit to IDA an annual
evaluation of policy development in the education sector no later than July 31 of each calendar year
during project execution, including the proposed work program for the next 12 month period [para
4.14].
g) that the Textbook Working Group will be maintained through the life of the project [para.
4.10].
h) that adequate monitoring and evaluation procedures will be maintained, in accordance with
indicators agreed upon between the Government and IDA; and that an evaluation report will be
prepared, under TOR acceptable to IDA, and will be furnished to IDA on or about October 31,
1999, to serve as the basis for the joint Bank-Borrower mid-term review of project progress [para
4.13].
i) that not later than February 28, 1998, the Borrower will submit to IDA detailed guidelines for
allocation and administration of subsidies for textbooks to vulnerable groups, satisfactory to IDA
[para 2.171;
j) that the Borrower will maintain the Textbook Fund through the life of the project [para. 2.151.



32
k) that the Borrower shall, not later than September 30 of each calendar year, provide its cash
contribution to the Textbook Fund in the amount equivalent to at least 10% of the total
requirements of the Textbook Fund for the next nine-month period, as such annual requirements
are estimated by the MoES [para. 2.17];
I) that during the project execution (i) no revisions shall be made to the schedule of textbook
publishing and curriculum development for grades 1-10 without prior consultation with IDA and
(ii) no revisions shall be made, without an approval by IDA, to the curriculum/syllabi of those
subjects for which the textbooks are financed under the project after the bidding process for said
textbooks has been initiated by the Borrower [para. 2.18].
B. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.2   Following the signing of the Credit Document the conditions for effectiveness of the Credit
Document must be completed by the Borrower, in accordance with the following provisions:
a) The Project Account shall have been opened and an initial deposit of the amount equivalent to
$35,000 shall have been deposited [para. 3.41.
b) The SIP Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, shall have been adopted by the Borrower
[para 4.5].
C. RECOMMENDATION
6.3   Subject to the above, the project is suitable for a Bank Credit of SDR 11.1 million (US$15 million
equivalent) at standard IDA terms, payable in 35 years, including 10 years of grace.



ANNEX I
Page I of 2
Education Sector Statistical Summary
Table Al.1: Education Indicators
Indicator                     Unit of Measure        1992  1993   1994  1995   1996 -1997
_____ - _____ -. _____  planned
Public education expenditure    % of TGE              11.2  6.0    4.5    8.1    8.4    8.0
Public education expenditure    % of GDP             7.2    4.9    2.0    2.7    2.5    2.1
Public expenditure on general   US$ per pupil (grades                      27     25     29
education                     1-10)                     I_ 
Enrollnents                                           1990                1996
Preschool                     number of pupils        113,303               63,500
Grades 1 -8                                          511,700              480,100
Grades 9-10                                           101,200              87,100
Tertiary                       .                      103,200              73,400
Gross schooling ratios*
Preschool                     % of age group 3-6     36.1                 21.4
Grades 1-8                    % of age group 7-14    95.7                 78.7
Grades9-10                    %ofagegroup 15-16    84.3                   63.5
Tertiary                      % of age group 17-20   45.6                 29.0
Repeater ratio                % of total enroll.     n/a (small)
Illiteracy                    % of pop (age 15+)      1
Pupil/teacher ratio                                   11.4                11.1
(grades 1-10)                l
*Based on official demographic statistics which understate recent high levels of temporary or pennanent emigration.
Actual 1 996 enrollment ratios are thought to be considerably higher, e.g. > 90% for grades 1-8.
Figure A1.1: Unit Costs by Type of Education
132 ed ry vo cat' I|
*Pre school
HGrados 110
o0
0 4
30
* 0
192                 99 14019
4, rc9:CEP  



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
Table A1.2: Structure of Education Budget by Type of Expenditure
Unit %
1992     1993      1994      1995      1996    1997
planned
Recurrent Expenditures /Total              89        92        94        84        89        93
Wages and Salaries                         40        59        50        42        38        52
Foodandstipends                            11        9         12        18        17         13
Utilities                                  13        9         12        13
Maintenance, Textbooks and Supplies        25        16        20        12        35        28
Capital Expenditures/Total                 11        8         6         16        11         7
Facility Repair                             5        6         4         10        8          5
New Construction                            3         1         1        0         0          0
Equipment                                   3         1        1         6         3          2
Table A1.3: Public Expenditure on Education by Level or Type of Education
1995                   1996               1997 (planned)
Drams   _              Drams         .%        Drains        %
(billion)              (billion)               (billion)
Kindergarten                         2.268        16.2       2.268       17.1       2.157        12.9
General education                    6.135       43.7        5.408       40.9       8.568        51.4
Boarding schools                     0.773        5.6        0.836        6.3       1.147        6.9
Professional schools                 0.700        5.0        0.651       4.9        0.595        3.6
Technicums                           0.800        5.8        0.720        5.4       1.184        7.1
Out-of-school institutions           1.530        10.9       1.425       10.8       0.847        5.1
Highereducation                      1.700        12.1       1.890       14.3       2.141        12.8
Other entities                       0.100        0.1        0.38        0.3         0.40        0.2
Total                                14.006       100       13.236       100        16.679       100



ANNEX 2
Page I of 5
STRUCTURE AND FINANCING OF THE ARMENIAN EDUCATION SYSTEM
The Education System Inherited from the Soviet Union
Under the Soviet system, Armenian children entered the kindergarten for four years, at the
age of three. At the beginning of the 1990s, an estimate of 45% of the reference population were
enrolled in 1,200 pre-schools. The language of communication was Armenian but there was no
teaching of reading or writing beyond simple recognition of the Armenian alphabet. Children were
provided with three or four meals a day, free of charge or at highly subsidized rates. The low pupil-
staff ratio and high costs of feeding meant that unit costs were substantially higher than in general
education.
At the age of seven, children entered the first of eight grades of compulsory general
education. About 80% of eighth grade leavers were accepted on merit to the ninth grade for two
years of upper secondary education; a minority were enrolled in vocational schools and a small
fraction entered the job market and followed evening classes.The vast majority (8 1%) of the
country's 1,400 general education schools, including many relatively small village schools, covered
all ten grades. Monograde classes were maintained even in the smallest schools, with
correspondingly low pupil-teacher ratios. In 1990, about 30% of the 600,000 school-age
population were also registered in 105 out-of-school institutions, which provided 4-6 hours a week
of specialized instruction free of charge to talented children in technology, art, music or sport.
Despite the comprehensive distribution of local schools, Armenia also had a total of 51
generously staffed boarding schools, attended by some 7,000 handicapped children, "socially
unprotected" children and orphans, often from pre-school age.
Prior to independence, some 47,000 students were enrolled in 101 vocational schools.
These provided training to eighth grade leavers in 250 trades, tailored to meet the needs of specific
factories in Armenia. A further 50,000 students attended technicums for more advanced training,
also geared narrowly to specific positions. Approximately 25% of tenth grade leavers were selected
for five years of higher education in Armenia's State university and thirteen institutes, or in
institutions in other FSU republics. The number of places in each discipline or trade in all these
institutions was determined each year by Ministry of Economy "State Orders" on the basis of
planned expansion or replacement needs in each sector. All students in post-secondary institutions
received sufficient stipends to cover subsistence and education costs without relying on assistance
from their family.
Under the Soviet system, all textbooks were developed and supplied from Moscow, with
the exception of Armenian language translations of the Soviet books which were handled by one
monopolistic state publisher in Armenia. All aspects of the book provision system were centrally
controlled, based on formulaic prices, with no competition in quality or price. Every student had a
personal copy of each required text, on loan for the year, free of charge. At the time of
independence, no sector of the Armenian book trade had any experience of financial and
commercial management practices.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5
Changes since 1991
The collapse of public funding for education following independence, combined with the
impact of the 1988 earthquake, has undermined quality, demand and equity throughout the system
and has constrained efforts to reform. Between 1990 and 1996, total enrolments across all sectors
declined by some 20% while official demographic data report a small increase in the size of the
school-age population. There is no evidence of any gender bias in this decline. Changes in
enrolment rates are difficult to estimate because the high rates of recent temporary and permanent
migration cannot be accounted for accurately. The most substantial retraction has been in
kindergarten, in which total enrolment has fallen by more than 50% and the number of schools by
18% since the late 1980s. This is attributed primarily to the deterioration of facilities, the
introduction of some charges to parents, and the high level of unemployment which has made it
easier for children to be cared for at home. Unit costs have remained high in relation to general
education. In the 1997 budget, public funding for pre-school has been cut back and the
responsibility for provision transferred to municipalities.
Primary-secondary schools have been forced to close during the coldest months of recent
winters and have depended for their survival on informal parental contributions, the determined
efforts of teachers who have received only nominal salaries, and assistance from humanitarian
agencies. In compulsory general education, it is estimated that about 5%' of the reference
population are not enrolled in school (compared with virtually 0% in the 1980s), while a much
higher proportion have not been attending regularly, due largely to the poor physical conditions in
schools, and the inability of some parents to afford informal charges and the costs of clothing and
textbooks. Total recorded enrolments in 1996 were 1.5% below their 1990 level. Remarkably, the
number of schools and the number of teachers have actually increased (see Annex 9), although
average qualifications of the teaching force have declined and there are shortages in some subjects.
Pupil/teacher ratios (11.1) and average class size (<20) continue to be very low by international
standards. (By comparison with OECD countries, the excess of non-teaching staff working for the
education sector in Armenia is even greater).
Table A2.1: General Education Institutions
1980/81           1990/91            1996/97
Schoolswithgrades 14                        32                 18                 15
Schools with grades 1-8                     342               211                184
Schools with grades 1-10                    959               1,087             1,204
Total number of schools                    1,333              1,316             1,403
Total enrolments                          559,400            593,200           584,300
Pupil/teacher ratio                                           11.4               11.1
The development of private schools is now officially welcomed and the licencing criteria
are flexible, but the private sector in primary-secondary education is still very small. In 1996, there
were only eleven private institutions with less than one percent of the enrolments. The use of
This estimate is based on the results of a 1996 household survey, not on official demographic data
which would suggest lower enrolment rates.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
private tutoring, on the other hand, is widespread and is considered almost essential to gaining
university entrance.
Demand for the specialized instruction provided in out-of-school institutions has fallen
sharply, as the quality of services has suffered from lack of funds for maintenance and new
equipment. The number of pupils attending these facilities fell by 55% from 1990 to only 78,000 in
1996. At least 15 have already closed and the remainder are operating far below their capacity.
Boarding schools have been relatively well protected by humanitarian assistance which has
at least ensured that children are reasonably well fed. As a result, they have attracted some pupils
who have no reason to be attending a boarding or special school other than the extreme poverty of
their family. In many more cases, the handicaps of children in these schools are not severe enough
to warrant separation from their families and communities in specialized institutions.
Throughout vocational and post-secondary education, the number of "state orders"
(budgeted places for new entrants) has plummeted by to a mere 1,000 in vocational schools, 2,400
in technicums and 3,500 in the State University in 1996/97, while the proportion of paying students
has increased each year. More than 40 vocational schools have closed since the late 1980s and
enrolments are down to one fifth of their peak level. Some of the surviving schools are starting to
adapt their programs to market demand and attract paying students in popular sectors such as
construction and communications, although they are not permitted to charge fees for the first two
years which are equivalent to grades 9 and 10. Technicums have been more successful in adapting
to the new environment; in 1996, paying students constituted 62% of new entrants. Fourteen
technicums have recently been upgraded to the status of colleges, offering three year programs to
tenth grade leavers leading to a first degree, and 30 more are expected to follow shortly.
Major changes are also taking place in higher education. The shift to a standardized three-
level system--of a four year bachelor's degree, two year master's degree, and two year Ph.D.
equivalent--is being piloted in three state institutions. More than half of new entrants are now fee-
paying students, with fees determined for each discipline on the basis of demand rather
than unit costs. Selection procedures for the award of "State Order" places are a matter of public
controversy. The growth of the private sector at the tertiary level has been remarkable, with 25 new
institutions registered in 1996 alone. Most of the entrepreneurs are public university staff who are
renting surplus public facilities to carry out their programs.
Management and Funding of Education
Prior to independence, education expenditure was supported by the general budget of the
Soviet Union at an estimated average unit cost across all levels equivalent to approximately
US$500-600 in the late 1980s. The first budget of independent Armenia, in 1992, was based on a
per student allocation of a mere US$24. This fell even lower in 1994, since when per student
expenditure has been increasing to a planned $64 for 1997. Survival of the system has depended on
(mainly informal) payments by parents. The 1996 household survey carried out for the social
assessment suggests that the average costs to parents of general education, per child per year, are
$200, with important regional variations. In the focus groups, reported annual parental expenditure
per child ranged from $108 to $303 for grades 1-7 and from $138 to $528 for grades 8-10.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
Table A2.2: Public Expenditure on Education in Relation to
Total Public Expenditure and GDP (%)
1992     1993      1994     1995     1996     1997*
Education expenditure within TGE         11.2      6.0      4.5       8.1      8.4        8
Education expenditure within GDP         7.2       4.9      2.0       2.7      2.5       2.1
* Planned expenditure. Actual expenditure has generally fallen short of planned allocations.
Table A2.3: Parents' Expenses Per Child for School Related Items for 19942
Mean per                   Range per                      %
child                       Child                   Households
(in drams)                  (in drams)              without spending
Clothing          22,895           500 -239,500                    6.4
Shoes             13,749           300- 100,000                     3.5
Textbooks         4,264            300 - 50,000                    11.3
School supplies    3,540           100 -20,000                      1.2
Addtl. lessons    26,681           125 - 340,000                   64.1
School fees       2,776             50 - 100,000                   64.8
(repairs/ heat/ etc.)
Transportation    7,439            100 - 64,000                    91.7
Other expenses    6,660            100 - 60,000                    75.8
As a share of GDP, public expenditure on education in Armenia has fluctuated around
2.5% over the last three years--only about half the world average. Increasing this share
substantially would depend on increasing the small share of fiscal revenues in GDP. Even as a
share of total governnent expenditure, however, Armenia has been spending well below average on
education. The increase in education expenditures in 1995 is the result of a raise in the wages of
civil servants. The Government is conscious that this situation could have very serious long term
effects and has agreed to increase expenditure in 1998 to at least 10% of non-interest government
expenditures.
Although the structure of the education budget still shows the influence of the former
Soviet norms, it is moving steadily in the direction of standards more typical in market economies.
Recent evolution of the budget reflects increasing priority to primary and secondary education; the
planned allocation of 51% of the education budget to general education in 1997, up from 41% in
1996, compares with an OECD average of 70%. The shares of the education budget allocated to
kindergarten and to out-of-school institutions are still high by international standards, despite
recent cutbacks in both areas.
2 From the 1996 household survey for the social assessment. Survey respondents were asked to provide the overall
amount of money spent during the entire past school year for all students combined in the family for a variety of
essential items. It should be remembered that family members other than parents also provided responses. "Don't
know or cant remember" responses do not make up more than 2 percent in any individual expense item.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
Table A2.4: Public Expenditure on Education by Level or Type of Education
1995                  1996              1997 (planned)
Drams                 Drains                 Drams        %
(billion)             (billion)              (billion)
Kindergarten                        2.268       16.2      2.268       17.1       2.157       12.9
General education                   6.135      43.7       5.408       40.9       8.568       51.4
Boarding schools                    0.773       5.6       0.836        6.3       1.147       6.9
Professional schools                0.700       5.0       0.651        4.9       0.595       3.6
Technicuns                          0.800       5.8       0.720        5.4       1.184       7.1
Out-of-school institutions          1.530       10.9      1.425       10.8       0.847       5.1
Higher education                    1.700       12.1       1.890      14.3       2.141       12.8
Other entities                      0.100       0.1        0.38        0.3       0.40        0.2
Total                              14.006       100       13.236       100       16.679      100
The structure of the education budget by category of expenditure reveals negligible
resources for new construction, maintenance of existing facilities or purchase of new equipment.
The share of expenditure on food and student stipends has declined but is still high by international
standards. The low share going to salaries reflects the extremely low wages paid to teachers.
Salaries, which typically account for some 70% of education budgets, are planned to increase to
52% of Armenia's 1997 budget for the sector.
Funds for basic schooling are channeled directly from the central treasury to the 11 Marz
(regional) education offices. This new level of local government is a consolidation of the 57 former
regions and represents a deconcentration rather than decentralization of authority: Marz officials
are not elected but are appointed by and accountable to the central government. Marz education
departments are responsible for disbursing funds to individual schools, on the basis of centrally
determined line item budgets, and for managing the regional school inspectorate. The
responsibilities of school principals have increased since independence and now include the
selection and hiring of teachers and other staff. They have also increased de facto, in that principals
have had to innovate in raising resources from other sources, including informal charges to parents
in order to keep schools in operation. As of 1997, funding for pre-school and out-of-school
institutions is being channeled directly to local municipalities which receive a lump sum from the
central treasury to be allocated as they see fit. The only institutions still managed directly by the
Ministry of Education and Science are some of the boarding and special schools, and some of the
post-secondary institutions. The MoES is also responsible for curriculum and textbook
development, teacher training and qualifications, and for monitoring and evaluation.



k



Annex 3
TELEFAX TRANSMISSION
TO:         MI. Basil. G. Kavalsky          TELEFAX No: (202) 522 - 0010
Tide:       Director
Organisation: The World Bank
MDA
Dept/Div:   Country Departent IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
FROM:       Mr. Artashes Petrosiau          TELE AX No.: (374-2) 151-651
Title:      Minister
City/Country: Yerevan, Armenia
Organisation: Ministry of Education and Science
DATE:       29 May, 1997
Subject: Strtegy for Reform of te General Education System of the Republic of
Anuania
Pages: 6 (including cover sheet)
Dear Mr. Kovalsky
Please find attached the document Strategy for Reform of the Genem Education System
of the Republic of Armenia. This document has been approved by the Prime Minister.
Mfnister of Education and Science, Minister of Economy, and Minister of Finance. We
are providing this document for the Education component of the proposed Health and
Education Project.
7    Sincerely,
Robert Kochazian        Prime MNinister.
Artashes Petrosian      Minister of Education and Science
Vabram Avanessian      Minister of Economy
|         Armen Darbizuan  Minister of Finance
cc:      Nercissi tz               D






ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
Strategy for Reform of the General Education System of the
Republic of Armenia
1. Overview of the Education System
1.1    The history of Armenian literacy dates back more than 1600 years and is closely connected
with the Arnenian Christian Church. During 10-15th centuries schools offering 10-12 years of
education operated under the Church. The first secular Armenian schools were opened in Armenia
in the 18th century.
1.2   The present.system of education was initiated during the short period of the first Republic
of Armenia (1918-1920) and was later developed during Soviet power years from 1920-1990. Ten
years of compulsory general education in Soviet Armenia was free of charge, coeducational with
almost complete enrollment and was about 500-600 US$ state budget allocation per student in the
1980s. The high level of education was the achievement of paramount importance for the
Armenian people, which was true for both general and higher education.
1.3   The new Government of independent Armenia inherited a large, powerful and highly
centralized education system which incorporated the whole education cycle from preprimary to
higher and mainly relied on public funding.
1.4    Currently the education system is facing a number of serious problems, which are the
result of the financial and economic constraints of the country and sharp reduction of public
funding on education following Independence. As a result, per student allocation from the state
budget in 1992 was reduced approximately 25 times in comparison to 1988 and have a little
increase up to 1997. However, the current desolate state of schools is determined not only by the
scarcity of financial input by the state but also poor adjustment of the schooling system to new
realities of life, market economy and open society.
1.5   The maintenance of inherited high level of education and further development of the system
ensuring it competitiveness in the international arena is an important national task. There is an
obvious need to accelerate the reforms of the education system preconditioned by the processes
taking place in the economic and social spheres of Armenia.
2. Reforms
2.1    The reform strategy for general education includes (i) diversification of education
financing through concentrating of public funding on core general education and expanding of
private expenditures for non-curriculum activities and other levels of education; (ii) structural
reforms of the education system including management and finance decentralization, increased
autonomy of educational institutions and rationalization of the system, supported by a new
informational-analytical system; (iii) continuous improvement of curriculum and teaching methods
and the upgrading of knowledge evaluation in consistence with international educational standards.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
3. Financin2 of the General Education System
3.1   In 1996, 10,941 billion drains were spent from the state budget in education. For 1997,
12,153 billion drams are planned for education. Continuing increases are expected in budget
allocations to education. However, even under the most optimistic scenario of growth of the
budget, it will not be possible to cover all costs related to the compulsory core curriculum for many
years.
3.2    Meanwhile, the Government's objective for state education over the next years is to ensure
universal access to basic general education and provision of free compulsory eight years education
for each child with a further two years to be provided free of charge on the basis of selective
examinations. This can be done by making more effective use of public funding through precise
definition by the Government of grades and subjects according to the core curriculum, targeting of
budget funding to this core curriculum and to ensuring equity in the system, and through certain
rationalization of the education system as described in the point 6.2.
3.3    The state is not the only performer responsible for education. Citizens also have their own
responsibility for education and its expenses. Development of private financing will improve the
situation, remove some of the burden from government shoulders, create competitiveness in the
sphere. The private tutoring is very much in use in the form of unofficial direct payments to
teachers form parents, which indicates the potential that exists in the society and demonstrate the
desire of the population to give their children good education. Government intends to legalize these
payments, and to introduce or expand the system of official charges for non-core curriculum
education within schools and allow for redistribution of the money in the general education. It can
help, for instance, to increase the teachers' salaries.
3.4   In addition, establishment of state universal educational standards applicable for private
schools, revision of regulations for private schools and their legal enforcement will facilitate the
development of private education.
4. Structural Chan2es and Decentralization
4.1    The important element of the general education reform is the transformation of schools
from budgetary institutions to legal entities with the right to hold their own bank accounts and
manage their own budgets. Educational institutions will become autonomous and will no longer
receive financing per budget lines based on capacity, but will receive financing based on the
number of students enrolled in the differential approach in per capita funding by establishment of a
per capita funding formula with a weighting index based on poverty level of the community and
other special needs. In that case, a higher level of budget funding per student will be granted to
some schools, for example, in the earthquake zone, the border regions, remote areas, etc.
4.2    The autonomous institutions will have the right to raise money from other sources and will
have freedom in managing their budgets and in deciding how to allocate their resources between
different items. The process of getting autonomy will start in 1997, will be done on
voluntary progressive basis during several years and finished when all schools will get this status.
4.3    The process of school autonomy will be complemented by a gradual increase of parents'
and communities' involvement in the school governance through the Boards of Trustees. The legal
definition and enforcement of the regulations for Boards of Trustees is on the immediate agenda of



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
the Government. The Board of Trustees will mobilize additional resources for school improvement
and manage these resources, coordinating all their activities closely with the school principal and
administration. The involvement of the Board of Trustees in the school government will
progressively increase.
4.4    The decentralization of the education requires clear definition of responsibilities on each
level. Decentralization will be matched by a centralizing of the curriculum, standard setting,
qualifications consisting of three levels: school charter, annual report and school performance
monitoring through the Marz Inspection Units. So the Ministry of Education and Science will
determine the state educational standards in curriculum and teaching/learning methodologies,
professional standards for teachers and will control their maintenance and accomplishment. MoES
will be in charge of appointment and release of school principals. Each Marz governance unit has
Education Department which will be responsible for organizing of the financial auditing of schools.
By the MoES decision, the responsibility for the appointment and release of principals can be
delegated to Marzes. Teaching and non-teaching staff selection is devolved to the school level.
4.5    Decentralization will empower schools to make decisions regarding efficient resource
allocation, staffing, and effective learning programs. School autonomy and decentralization has
the potential to improve the school performance, stimulate innovations in teaching and in non-core
curriculum, respond quickly to shifting demand and local conditions, thus improving the quality of
education in the country measured by students cognitive achievements. In addition to improved
monitoring of student and school performance, the government will play an important role in
ensuring that equity is maintained in access to high general education.
5. Curriculum Improvement
5.1    The curriculum reform is aimed to develop students' cognitive potential through the
provision of necessary knowledge and skills, develop student's problem-solving and decision-
making capacity, effective communication through introduction of new methods of teaching and
learning.
5.2    The curriculum reforms are motivated by the keenness to be explicit about standards for
student attainment appropriate to international standards and will introduce a consistent system of
grading and criteria to evaluate the knowledge of students.
5.3    The curriculum will have a flexible structure and can continuously adjust to the new
realities of the life, such as development of market economy relations, technologies, etc. and
international standards.
5.4    Curriculum design and development of standards will remain the Government
responsibility. Teaching the core curriculum /State Order will be a condition of budget financing
and will provide eight years of free compulsory education. The school may charge fees for the non-
core part of the curriculum, designed at the local level. Schools will be obligated to inform the
MoES about their non-core curriculum.
5.5    The on-going improvement of the curriculum will be supported by introducing a new
system of textbook provision, based on competitive procurement procedures, and a school-based
rental scheme.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
6. Additional Policy Actions of the Government
6.1 Legal Basis of the Reform
Adoption of Education Law by the National Parliament
Adoption of new regulations by the Government for the Board of Trustees and for educational
institutions as legal entities with a right to manage their own budgets and bank accounts.
Adoption of regulations for private schools.
6.2 Rationalization of the System
In moving toward decentralization some emergency measures to increase the efficiency of refonns
are required:
* Consolidation of schools, starting with a pilot project in Yerevan and one other marz before
implementing nationwide.
* Introduction of school norms;
-defining teaching hours of the teachers in the schools with introduction of minimum
numbers,
-new grouping of classes through introduction of minimum class sizes,
-standardizing of the teacher/student ratio
-introducing more cost/effective norms on non-teaching staff and facilities,
-reducing the number of teachers on voluntary basis and considering retired age of teachers
and provision of compensation to those who will lose their jobs,
-all norms and standards will be have flexibility and possibility to adjust to community
conditions.
* Consolidation of the special boarding schools and integration of the children with special needs
in the day-school system in compliance with human rights.
* Consolidation of the technical schools.
6.3 Creation of Management Information System
In order to implement education reforms described above it is necessary to introduce computerized
management information system. In particular, the Government intends to design,
test and implement an integrated education information system which will assist educational
authorities in making right strategic decisions.
6.4 Public Information and Consultation Campaign
A unified program of public information through media channels, workshops and consultations will
be organized by the Government to facilitate the process of reforms.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
6.5 Capacity Building for School AutonomY
To build necessary capacity for a successful implementation of the Government's policy to
increase school autonomy, training courses and technical assistance will be organized
for principals and school management teams.
6.6 Integration into the World Communitv
Increasingly important aspects of education are the flow of information and integration with the
world educational communities, participation in international educational organization and
international comparative assessments. The Government will continue to carry out education
exchange programs, information exchange through securing access to Internet and foreign
publications.



I



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
MAIN FINDINGS OF SOCIAL ASSESSMENT IN EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
1. The Social Assessment (SA) of the Health and Education Sectors was conducted to provide
information to the Government of Armenia about people's attitudes and behaviors regarding utilization,
access and satisfaction with education and health services. This SA is only one step in the information
consultation process. The SA consisted of both quantitative and qualitative research (interviews and
focus group discussions). The main findings are summarized below.
Chapter 1: Utilization of Education Services
1. Nursery Attendance: Contrary to general education figures, pre-school attendance is low. While
nursery attendance is considered useful by 90 percent of respondents, only 38.9 percent of children 3-7
years old attend a pre-school program. According to respondents, the main reason for explaining low
attendance is that "care exists at home." The mean rate respondents were willing to pay (903 drains per
month) exceeds the mean monthly current cost for one child (554 drams).
2. School Attendance: In Armenia, all children have the right to ten grades of free education, and 8
grades are compulsory. However the quantitative and qualitative data found that: (1) some school
children drop out of school -- not only in the 9th and 10th grades; (2) some are never registered, and (3)
many more do not attend school regularly. According to the survey, the rate of non-attendance is 4.6
% of the sample. There were a number of noteworthy trends regarding which students to not attend.
Non-attendance affects:
o only slightly more urban (54 percent of total non-attending students) than rural students (46
percent);
* much more urban students in cities other than Yerevan, than those in Yerevan (ratio: 5:1);
m much more boys (6.3 percent of boys) than girls (2.2% of girls); and
* mostly students after grade 8.
According to the survey, the main reason for not attending school was that children "did not want to
attend" (27 percent of responses). Along with "did not want to attend", another top reason for boys
was "working to help the family." An important reason for girls was marriage -- which according to the
qualitative study is becoming increasingly common after grade 8. The qualitative work also documents
cases where non-attendance affected children younger than those in the 9th or 10th grades. There were
cases of 7, 8 and 9 year olds who have never been registered because parents cannot afford school
costs, can cover school needs for only a few of their children, or because children quit to work.
Dismissals (not only after grade 8) are another reason for non-attendance.
3. Absences: Absenteeism is also a widespread problem according to the survey. Sporadic
attendance affects more than a third of the children in the survey. The mean length of absences was 24
days, with a range of 10-150 days. A full 90 percent of absences lasted between 10 and 30 days.
According to the survey, absenteeism affected more urban residents than rural residents and was more
conunon among Yerevan students than in other cities.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
For those students absent more than 10 school days, the top five reasons for these prolonged absences
were, in order of importance:
"health reasons" (66.8 percent);
"poor physical conditions in the schools" (16.6 percent);
"did not want to attend" (9.9 percent);
"not being unable to meet costs" (6.1 percent), and
"working to help the family" (6.1 percent).
A few comments can be made regarding this data:
*  The response "poor physical conditions in the schools" was higher for Yerevan, than for areas outside
of Yerevan, and twice more than for villages. In focus groups in cities, parents were more likely to
complain about cold temperatures in the classrooms. In villages, parents said that they contribute fuel
to heat the rooms.
*  According to the survey, the response "working to help the family" as a reason for absenteeism was
given only by village households. During interviews and focus groups, rural schoolchildren and parents
explained that agricultural responsibilities often take precedence over schooling.
*  No survey respondent gave "being unable to meet costs" as their first reason for absenteeism.
Responses were even for urban and rural areas. However, parents in focus groups mentioned cases in
which their inability to provide adequate clothes and shoes led to repeated absences of their children.
*  "Did not want to attend" comprised less than 1 percent of all village household responses but 6.4
percent of all city households. In focus groups and interviews with children, participants explained that
absenteeism is linked to the decline in value of education.
Chapter 2: Access to Education
There are three main issues regarding access to education: physical access; costs of education and the
household's ability to finance them, and access to essential inputs -- such as availability of textbooks.
1. Proximity to School: As expected, physical access to schools is not the main obstacle to access.
According to the survey, 94.6 percent of the sample had a 10 grade school in their neighborhood or
village. Only 1 percent of villages had no school. However qualitative findings suggests that residents
of villages without a ten-grade school do not necessarily
have easy access to schools in nearby villages. Mass transportation service is not adjusted to the school
schedule and does not serve certain villages. As a result, children either walk to school and others take
the bus -- sometimes arriving 20-30 minutes late each day.
2. Educational Expenses The main obstacle to access to education is the cost of schooling according
to the survey. The main cost of education per child per year according to the survey is 88,000 drams
(equivalent to US $215) with a range of 1500 dr. to 975,000 dr. (equivalent to a range of US $4 to US
$2,374).
Costs associated with clothing include:
Clothing and shoes represent the largest single expenditure for respondents surveyed (41.6 percent of
total expenses). During the focus groups, it was evident that there is strong societal pressure and a
sense of competition among children and parents about clothes. Shoes are also an important status
symbol. Without appropriate shoes or boots, children will often not be sent to school.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
Textbooks: The mean amount spent on textbooks is 4,200 dr. (US $10.2) per child, with 11.3 percent
saying that they spent no money on textbooks. The current price of textbooks (500-800 dr.) exceeds
most parents' willingness to pay (mean of 356 dr.). Textbook costs add up quickly per grade and for
families with many children.
Additional lessons:3 The mean amount on these lessons per year per child according to the survey
respondents is 26,681 dr. (US $65), yet 64.1 percent of households said that they did not spend any
money on this item. Focus groups explained that the price of the lessons varies according to the grade
and subject taught. More female students (20.6 percent) took additional lessons than males (17 percent)
More city children (23.5 percent) took additional lessons than village children (10.3 percent).
Fees for small repairs: A mean amount of 2,776 dr. was contributed per child per year as yet 64.8
percent of parents said that they did not contribute any money. This findings may have important
implications for school self-financing plans.
Informal payments were also mentioned during focus groups and interviews. Parents explained that,
especially in the prestigious schools, parents provide presents and cash payments to teachers and
school directors to ensure their goodwill towards their children, to increase grades or to ensure
acceptance into a school.
3. Financine Education A full 46.6 percent of parents believe that they are unable to meet the costs
of schooling. The picture worsens to 50 percent for parents with three or more children. Top sources
of income for covering at least some of school expenses were: current income (75%/6), selling of
personal belongings and property (over 33%/6), assistance from relatives (over 25%), savings (20%),
and borrowed money without interest (16%). According to the focus groups, parents get more jobs,
and children work to cover costs. Rural residents complained of that the seasonal lack of cash is a main
impediment for meeting school costs in September.
4. Access to Essential Inputs: Textbooks Access to textbooks is considered to be the second
greatest problem facing households, according to the survey respondents. Interestingly, availability is
considered the main problem by 52 percent of the sample. In focus groups, dissatisfaction was also
linked to high prices, physical appearance and content of textbooks. As a result of difficulties of
access, 62 percent of the sample did not have a complete set of textbooks. The situation is worse in
rural areas where 23.4 percent of households had a complete set of books than in urban areas where
46.6 percent had a complete set. Even in Yerevan, less than half of the students had a compete set of
books. According to focus groups, sharing textbooks was the most widespread means of coping with
the lack of textbooks. Yet sharing was mostly considered to be inconvenient and to have a negative
impact on quality of education according to the focus groups.
5. Vulnerable Children, the Poor While teachers are believed to know who are the poor children in
their communities, there is no evidence that the poorest are being targeted for assistance. In education,
there is evidence of great socio-economic differentiation between the poor and the wealthy. Yet
targeting is difficult because 46.6 percent of the parents in the survey believe that they were unable to
provide for their children's school needs.
Disabled children Over 50 percent of respondents said they are willing to consider mainstreaming
students with physical disabilities. More research should be done specifically among the parents of the
disabled.
3 Additional lessons can be provided by the school to supplement the regular lessons or to assist poorly
performing students. Private teachers also provide additional lessons outside of school to prepare for entrance
exams to technical schools, colleges and universities.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
Chapter 3: Satisfaction with Educational Services
1. Expectations from Education According to the focus groups, some of parents' expectations from
schools include:
Free basic education: This expectation is shaped by the Soviet experience. Parents deplore rising
costs.
Teach basic knowledge or more: While some believe only basic skills are necessary, others believe
schools should teach how to think and provide information about the world.
Preparation for higher education: The value of general education is closely linked to access to higher
education and expectations of social mobility. Today, higher education is believed to be no longer open
for even bright students who are not rich. Even if access were provided, some parents asked what good
is higher education if it does not lead to higher earnings.
Socialization, including teaching discipline and becoming a good citizen, are also expected from
schools. Schools are expected to stand in apposition to and as a protection from 'the street,' especially
in grades 8-10 for both rural and urban children. However, schools are not always the sanctuaries that
parents wish they were.
Art, Music and Crafts: The full development of a child includes, according to parents, the nurturing of
their creative and artistic talents such as music, art, crafts and sports.
2. Value of education While the inherent value of education remains high among many parents, the
importance of education varies according to two types of criteria:
merit: Many parents and teachers said that better performing kids get priority for support.
gender: For girls, education is considered to be a great asset. An educated woman is expected to be a
better spouse -- make better decisions and assist her children with their education. In both cities and
villages, even if girls are not expected to work, higher education grants status to the family into which
she marries. In urban areas, women also said that girls need education to gain "a degree of
independence," and "to be prepared for life." For boys, as future providers, the value of education
seems more closely linked to a debate over expected earnings.
3. Oualitv of Education
Issues related to decreasing quality of education mentioned by parents in focus groups included:
*  The lack of books and textbook sharing;
* Low salaries of teachers results in lower status and lower motivation of teachers which in turn leads to
teacher absenteeism, lack of preparation of classes and lack of discipline;
Additional classes are perceived as a symptom of declining quality of school-based education. Rural
schools are worse affected by a decline in quality because:
*  Village schools rely on local labor, specialists or not, to teach. As a result, many non-specialists teach
and some basic topics are not being taught at all;
*  Lower availability of textbooks; and
*  Less access to additional classes.



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
Chapter 4: Community Involvement in Schools
1. Role of Parents: Parents are fairly involved in education of their children. HoNwever this
involvement is mostly limited to the home and does not extend to management of the school. Mothers
traditionally assist their children with homework, attend meetings and, in lower grades, oversee school
activities. Fathers said they usually limit their interactions to checking grades and making decisions
regarding higher education and choices of profession. They are also called upon to make cash and labor
contributions. Survey results suggest that most parents regularly communicate with school
representatives.
2. Formal Meetin2s and Councils: Over the past year, 69 percent of surveyed parents visited the
school once a month or more. In addition, the survey found that school parent councils4 exist in over
half the schools (52.6 percent). Of those who said there was a
council, 47 percent said that they attended the meetings last year. Attendance however was particularly
low in Yerevan. In focus groups, parents discussed the role of the class councils. Class councils
address disciplinary issues, results of children, money collection for building
repairs, textbooks and other non-pedagogical issues. Many parents were cynical about the
meaningfulness of their participation in these council meetings.
3. Other Sources of Community Contributions to schools include foreign assistance; sponsorship
by local enterprises; sponsorship by an enterprise; sponsorship of needy students, and income generated
from sale of crops from school lands.
Chapter 5: Conclusions and Recommendations
1. Main Concerns: The importance of education is echoed forcefully at the level of the general
population. To 50 percent of respondents of the survey, education was named as the number one
problem facing the country, and one of the top three for 81.6 percent of respondents.
According to the focus groups and the survey, the main concerns of parents are:
* high costs of education;
* availability and cost of textbooks;
* lower quality of education, especially in rural areas because of the lack of specialists and lower access
to textbooks;
* lack of motivation of teachers because of low salaries; and
o additional lessons have become a symptom of low quality of school base education.
* No equity for good performers in access to higher education.
2. Recommendations: Eight of the most common recommendations to improve access to quality
education follow:
1. The government should provide more financial support to schools. Households already feel that
their budgets are over-stretched by education costs.
4   There are two types of parent councils, the school level parent council and the class level councils. The survey
dealt exclusively with school level councils. The focus groups mentioned primarily class level councils.



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
2. The textbook availability and cost issue can be resolved through low priced, school-centered
distributions such as a rental scheme under the conditions that book quality is improved; they arrive
on time. and that they will be used in class.
3. Teachers' accountability and motivation can be increased by increasing their salaries. Teaching
needs to be re-instated as the priority for teachers as compared to other activities.
4. Village schools need to find ways to attract specialists and provide courses to fulfill the general
curriculum. One way may be to reinstate the law exempting young male specialists from the military
service if they agree to teach in small villages.
5. Children need to be able to remain in school through the 10th grade, by allowing poor performers
to stay in the academic track and providing alternative lessons such as crafts.
6. Pedagogical and didactic materials need to be made available to teachers to make their jobs easier
because they have less time for preparing lessons.
7. The adoption of free or low cost uniforms can be considered. However, uniforms are not a priority
for the poor who cannot take on additional costs of schooling.
8. By adjusting the public transportation schedules to the school schedule, tardiness  among
students from outside the village can be reduced.
3. Feedback on Proposed Reforms: was provided mostly through the follow-up focus groups:
*  Parental involvement in schools remains low because of parents do not.expect to have an impact
on school management and education quality. This involvement may be increased through
management changes and school-level funds.
*  A community level council handling education issues may be created to include parents and other
influential community members.
*  The existing parent and school councils could be improved by providing parents with a forum for
addressing issues such as teaching quality and curriculum. Parents also suggested the meetings
could be more about solving problems than admonishing parents.'
*  A school fund could be created to provide resources to address education problems. The fund
would be managed by a committee made up of parents, teachers, the school director and students.
Some parents also said that training may be useful for this council so that parents and teachers can
understand better how funds can be used optimally. Fund could be used for increasing teacher salaries,
purchasing textbooks and pedagogical materials and maintaining schools.
*  Monitoring information could lead to competition among urban schools, and provide rural parents
with tools to improve school management.
*  Targeting of poor children can best be done by teachers and students who are closest to the
children.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
Key Monitoring Indicators
Objective                              Process Indicator                               Impact Indicator
Comnponent 1: Textbook production and distribution
Improve quality and reduce costs of school  % of titles, according to publishing plan, for which  Annual social assessment reveals increased
textbooks.                            contracts are awarded and completed annually on the   satisfaction of teachers, pupils and parents concerning
basis of open competition between publishers (target    costs and quality of core textbooks.
100%).
Ensure that all pupils have access to  % of schools which receive delivery ofthe new   % of grade 1-10 pupils who have a personal copy of
required textbooks.                   textbooks by the beginning of each school year (target  each project-funded textbook title for their grade
100%).                                          (target 90% at mid-term review). % of pupils who
have personal copy of all required books by project
completion (target 95%).
Establish basis for sustainable and   % of parents from whom schools have succeeded in  % of schools that have accumulated sufficient funds in
demand-driven system of financing     collecting rental fees (target, at least 70% by mid-term  their revolving fund accounts to meet the full costs of
textbooks.                            review and 80% by project completion).          replacement books by project completion (target at
least 80%).
Component 2: Capacity Building for Reform Management
Establish processes and incentives to  All key stakeholder groups have been engaged in  Reduction in the numnber of grade 1-8 classes (target
increase efficiency in allocation of  dialogue on reform strategy through workshops and  3% by mid-term review and 8% by project
resources within general education.   other information and consultation activities.   completion).
Rationalization plans have been prepared for all  Increase in pupil:teacher (FTE) ratio. Reduction in %
Marzes and piloted in two Marzes by mid-term    of teachers teaching fewer than 15 hours per week.
review.                                         Increase in average teacher earnings and qualification
level.
Build the capacity of schools for effective    Number of school principals who have participated in   Number of schools that have prepared business plans
management of their own resources.    training in school management and finance (target  with parent and teacher participation and are
90% by mid-term review).                        monitoring their own mdicators of school
Improve school perfornance by promoting                                                performance.
parental and conmiunity participation in  Number of autonomous schools that have received
school funding and management         targetted training for principals and board members    Improvements in attendance rates and performance in
(target 90% by project completion).             national examinations in (i) schools receiving SIP
support, (ii) schools with autonomous status. Number
Number of SIP microproject applications received,  of SIP-supported schools demonstrating
Number of microprojects implemented (target 60 by    improvements in the above indicators (target 70% by
mid-term review and 200 by project completion).  project completion).
Changes in opinions and behavior of principals,
teachers and parents concerning role of parents and
community, revealed in annual social assessment
Improve capacity for monitoring of school   By mid-term review, key indicators and procedures  By project completion, reports on school performance
performance.                          have been established by MoES for monitoring school  are supplied annually by all Marzes.
performance and, by project completion, education
officials in all Marzes have received training in  All Marzes are using the MIS in monitoring impact of
performance monitoring.                        the reforms.



:



ANNEX 6
Page I of 4
EDUCATION FINANCING AND MANAGEMENT REFORM PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OUTLINE
I. PREPARATION
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for Arnenian Education Management and Financing
Project consists of three parts: (i) Textbook Component Implementation Plan, with Working
Papers, which is presented separately; (ii) Capacity Building for Reform Management Component
Implementation Plan, and (iii) Plan for Support for Support for Project Management. The PIP was
prepared during one year of the Project Preparation period. During that period, almost all newly
proposed mechanisms and procedures were piloted and tested, proving their effectiveness and
sustainability for the future. The main policy lines and the final structure of the project were
determined and confirmed with the Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) and Ministry of
Finance and Economy (MoFE) during the appraisal Mission of the World Bank form May 1 to
May 15, 1997.
Implementation plans for components 2 and 3 were prepared by the Center for Education Projects
(CEP), which is the World Bank (WB) Preparation Unit (PPU) of the MoES. The Implementation
Plan for Component 3 was prepared in consistency with the study on Impacts of School
Rationalization in Armenia conducted by the following members of the MoES Finance and
Management Working Group under the Chairmanship of MoES Minister, Mr. Artashes Petrosian;
* Mr. Vahe Topalian, Head of Finance and Economy Department of MoES
* Mr. Zhora Asatrian, Deputy Head of Public Expenditure Planning Departnent, MoFE
* Mr. Armen Hovhanessian, Senior Specialist of the MoES
* Mr. Norair Ghukasian, Senior Specialist of The MoES
Mr. Robert Stepanian, Head of Department of Pre-primary and Special Education
The PPU staff consists of the following members:
* Ms. Karine Harutyunian, Head of the CEP
* Mr. Hovhannes Rostomyan, Accountant
* Ms. Marina Gevorgian, Administrative Assistant
* Ms. Lilit Shavarshyan, Translator and Secretary
II. TABLE OF CONTENTS OF THE EDUCATION PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN
Chapter 1. Background and Rationale of the Education Project
Project Goal and Objectives
Rationale of the Project
Chapter Directory
Chapter 2. Capacity Building for Reform Management (CBRM) Component
Introduction
Outline of the Component



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
CBRM Sub-Components
Summary of Activities of the CBRM Component
Chapter 3. Strategy for Finance and Management Reform
Background
Objectives of the Sub-Component
Sub-Component Description and Implementation Activities
Budget
Timetable
Technical Assistance for the Sub-Component
Chapter 4. Capacity Building for School Autonomy
Background
Goals and Objectives
Project Description and Activities
Building and Equipment
Technical Assistance
Budget
Chapter 5. School Improvement Program (SIP)
Background
Objectives of the Sub-Component
Sub-Component Description and Activities
Timetable
Personnel
Technical Assistance for SIP
SIP Budget
Building and Equipment
Chapter 6. Project Implementation Unit (PMU)
Responsibilities
Organizations Responsible for the Project
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
TEXTBOOK COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN & WORKING PAPERS
I. PREPARATION
The Project Implementation Plan, the associated Annexes and working papers were prepared by the
Ministry of Education Textbook Working Group (MOETWG) under the chairmanship of the First
Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Ashot Bleyan, with the assistance of specialist professional
support from International Book Development Ltd., and with the benefit of extensive consultation
with parents and school principals. On the basis of experience in the pilot phase of this component,
revisions were made to details of the implementation plan by the re-constituted MOETWG,
including Mr Vahe Topalian, Mr Hamlet Kairepetian and Ms Karine Haroutunian, under the
Chainnanship of Mr Levon Galstian, Deputy Minister.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
II. TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Brief Description of the Rationale
1.1    Authorship of the Implementation Plan
1.2   The Process of Research, Policy Development and Consultation
1.3    Basic Principles of the Textbook Project
2. Curriculum Reform and & Subject/Grade Syllabi
2.1    Curriculum Reformn
2.2   Subject/Grade Syllabi
3. The New Minimum Textbook Requirement
3.1    Three Year Publishing Plan
4. Key Policy Agreements
4.1    Assumed Classroom Book Life
4.2    Minimum Production Specifications
4.3    Cost Amortization
4.4    Book Sharing
4.5    Book Ownership
4.6    Commercial Editions of Project Books
4.7    Books for Karabakh & the Armenian Diaspora
4.8    The Introduction of Publishing Competitions
4.9   Print & Raw Materials Source
4.11   GoA Support for Socially Unprotected Children
5. Publishing Competition Methodology & Procedures
5.1   Introduction
5.2   Publishing Bid Administration
5.3    Bid Organization
5.4   Provision of Syllabus Guidelines
5.5    Bid Timescale
5.6    Bid Submissions
5.7    The Preparation & Submission of Sample Material
5.8   Publisher's Qualification Requirements
5.9    The Bid Timetable
5.10   Bid Schedule
5.11   Print Run Estimates
5.12   Publishing Cost Estimates
5.13   The Textbook Procurement Budget
5.14   Revised Bid Documentation
6. Bid Evaluation Methodology & Procedures
6.1    The Evaluation Criteria
6.2   The Evaluation Methodology & Procedures
6.3    Transparency
6.4   Evaluation Panels
6.5    The Evaluation Process



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
7. Distribution Methodology & Procedures
7.1    Background
7.2   Potential Textbook Distribution in Armenia
7.3   Issues in Launching Provincial Textbook Distribution Bids
7.4    Altemative Possibilities for Textbook Distribution
7.5    Textbook Distribution Procedures
7.6    Textbook Distribution Timetable
7.7    Textbook Distribution Costs
7.8    Training & Technical Assistance
8. The School Based Textbook Rental Scheme
8.1    Definitions
8.2    Background
8.3   The Textbook Rental Scheme
8.4    Requirements of the Textbook Rental Scheme
8.5    Coverage of the Textbook Rental Scheme
8.6    Management of the Textbook Rental Scheme
8.7   Basic Operational Principles of the Textbook Rental Scheme
8.8    Basic Operational Principles of Revolving Funds
8.9   School Revolving Fund Bank Accounts
9. Issues on Printing & Raw Materials Supply
9.1    Raw Materials
9.2   Printing & Binding
9.3   Sourcing of Print & Raw Materials
9.4    Other Production Issues
10. Information & Publicity
10.1 Target Groups
10.2 Strategy
10.3 Costs and Implementation Schedule
11. Project Implementation Timetable
12. Project Budget and Cash Flow
13. Computerized Ordering Systems
14. Technical Assistance & Training
ANNEXES



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
OPERATIONAL MANUAL
L PREPARATION
The Operational Manual (OM) for the School Improvement Program (SIP) was prepared by the Project
Preparation Unit of the Ministry of Education and Science, with the assistance of consultants from the
Armenia Social Investment Fund project unit and the Pedagogical Institute. The OM specifies eligibility
and operational criteria for operation of the SIP and describes the SIP Unit within the PMU, and the SIP
Steering Committee.
II. TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Objectives and Structure
Introduction
SIP Description
SIP Objectives
Scope of Activities
Targeting Methodology
2. SIP Institutional Set-Up
SIP Steering Committee
SIP Unit
3. SIP Microproject Cycle
Identification
Appraisal
Approval
Implementation
4. Training and Technical Assistance
Capacity Building of the SIP Unit
Assistance to Schools' Implementing Groups
5. Monitoring and Evaluation
Incorporating Lessons Learned
SIP Impact assessment
6. Procurement
Management
Methods
Monitoring
7. Disbursement
Bank Accounts
Disbursement Procedures
8. Accounting and Reporting
Accounting System
Reporting
Auditing



I



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
Armenia Education Project: Procurement Information
._____________._____________.______             Section  1: Procurement Review                                     :
Goods                               ICB             NCB              IS               NS              Direct contracting
1. Procurement method thresholds                   for textbooks    aggregate        aggregate        aggregate $100,000
in Armenian     amount: $950,000  $1,100,000      <$10,000 per contract
language.       <$200,000        <$30,000
aggregate
amount:
$6,500,000
2. Prior Review                     yes             >$200,000        No               No              No
Works                               ICB             NCB              IS               Minor Work       Other methods
3. Procurement method thresholds                                                      <$30,000
4. Prior Review    _                                                                  No
Consultant Services                 QCBS            QBS              Sole Sourcing    Minor            Other methods
Contracts
5. Procurement method thresholds                                     decided on a case-  <$50,000 indiv
by-case basis
6. Prior Review                     >$100,000 firms  >$100,000 firms   yes            only TOR
>$50,000 indiv.  >$50,000 indiv
7. Expost Review                    Ex-ost review will be conducted during supervision missions by the supervision team.
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Ageocy in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
8. The PMU will have a procurement officer who will receive training from the existing PMUs in Armenia. The Director of the PMU will have
received training in procurement for generalists and Bank operations. The credit will finance extemal procurement advisor on textbooks to the PMU
during the first semester of the project implementation. The PMU staff have been trained in textbook procurement during the pilot phase.
9. Country Procurement Review Note or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:    10. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions
Darft Country Procurement Review Note completed June 1997                    of the first year ready by negotiations?  No
Section3,. Training, Information and Development on Pro urement
11. Estimated date of Project    12. Estimated date of    13. Indicate if contracts are  14. Domestic     15. Domestic Preference
Launch Workshop:                 General Procurement      subject to mandatory SPN in    Preference for   for Consultant Services:
January 1998.                    Notice publication:      Development Business:         Goods/Works:
September, 1997                 No                           Yes         No
16. Retroactive financing N/A
17. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
Section 4, Procurement Staffing
18. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team: To be determined after recruitment of procurement expert in ECSHD
19. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Armenia Resident Mission staff will participate in prior review
Detailed Procurement Plan is available in project files






ARMENIA
Education Project                                                                           ANNEX 9
Table 1. Improve Textbook Production and Distributon
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities         Unit                      Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
Unit  1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Tota Cost  1997   1998      1999      2000     2001      Total     1997   1998      1999     2000      2001      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Computers                    each          2    -    .    -   2   2.5       -    5.00        -                  -       5.00       -    5.14         -        -         -       5.14
Printer                      each     -   I    -    -    -   1   0.5        *    0.50                                   0.50       -    0.51         -        -         -       0.51
UPS                          each      -   1    -    -    -   1   0.3       -    0.30        -         -        -       0.30       -    0.31         -        -         -       0.31
Software                     each      -   1    -    -    -   1   0.5      _     050                                    0.50       -    0.51      _        _            -       0.51
Subtotal Equipment                                                            -    8.30        -         -        -       6.30       -    6.48         -        -         -       6.48
B. Textbooks Purchase
Pupils textbooks            amount                                            1,800.00  2,715.00  3,088.00    90.00   7,693.00     - 1,850.74  2,858.59  3,339.14   99.95   8,148.41
Rental scheme               amount                                          * 1,000.00  1,500.00  2,500.00  2,500.00   7,500.00    - 1,028.19  1,579.33  2,703.32  2,776.27   8,087.10
Textbook Distributon        amount                                          .   50.00    100.00    90.00    90.00     330.00       -   51.41    105.29     97.32    99.95     353.96
Subtotal Textbooks Purchase                                                   - 2,850.00  4,315.00  5,678.00  2,680.00  15,523.00    - 2,930.33  4,543.20  6,139.78  2,976.16  16,589.47
C. Technical Assistance
Foreign                   person/month  -   6   4    3    -  13   25        -  150.00    100.00    75.00        -    325.00            154.23    105.29    81.10        -     340.62
Local                     person/month  -   5   3   3    -  11   0.6        -    3.00      1.80     1.80        -       6.60       -    3.08      1.90      1.95        -       6.93
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                 -  153.00    101.80    76.80        -    331.60        -  157.31    107.18     83.05              347.54
D. Information and publicity  per compalgn  -   2    -    -    -   2    5     -   10.00        -         -        -      10.00       -   10.28         -        -         -      10.28
E. Training
Fellowships               personlyear  -   2    -    -    -   2   30        -   60.00         -        -         -     60.00        -   61.69        -         .        -      61.69
Study tours                personttour   -   4   2    -    -   6    6       -   24.00     12.00        -         -     36.00        -   24.68     12.63        -        -      37.31
Workshops                 perworkshop  -   3   2    2    2    9    1        -    3.00      2.00     2.00      2.00       9.00       -    3.08     2.11      2.16     2.22       9.57
Subtotal Training                                                             -   87.00     14.00     2.00     2.00     105.00        -   89.45    14 74      2.16     2.22     108.58
F. Pilot PPF Refund           amount                                     958.00       -        -         -        -    958.00   958.00       -         -                  -     958.00
Total Investment Costs                                                     958.00 3,106.30  4,430.80  5,756.80  2,682.00  16,933.90   958.00 3,193.86  4,665.13  6,224.98  2,978.38  18,020.35
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Computer maintenance       month      -  12  12   6    -  30  0.05         -    0.50      0.60     0.30         -      1.50        -    0.62     0.63      0.32        -       1.57
Total Recurrent Costs                                                           -    0.60     0.60      0.30        -       1.50       -    0.62      0.63      0.32        -       1.57
Total                                                                       958.00 3,106.90  4,431.40  5,757.10  2,682.00  16,935.40   958.00 3,194.47  4,665.76  6,225.31  2,978.38  13,021.92



ARMENIA                                                                  ANNEX 9
Education Project
Table 2. Central Capacity Building
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)
Quantities           Unit                Base Cost                            Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   997 1998 1999 2000 2001 Total Cost 1997  1998    1999   2000   2001   Total  1997  1998    1999    2000    2001   Total
1. Investnent Cosb
A. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign
Short-term             person/month  -  3.5    2    2    -  7.5  30   -  105.00   60.00  60.00         ^  225.00    -   107.96   63.17    64.88       -  236.01
2. Local
Localconsultant        person/month  -  18   18   18   12   66  0.6   -   10.80   10.80  10.80   7.20   39.60    -    11.10   11.37    11.68   8.00   42.15
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                               -  115.80   70.80  70.80   7.20  264.60    -   119.06   74.54    76.56   8.00  278.16
B. Training
Workshops                perworkshop  -   2    2    2    2    8  2.5   -    5.00    5.00   5.00   5.00   20.00    -         5.14    5.26      5.41   5.55   21.36
Studytours               personlmonth  -   3    3    2    -    8    6   -   18.00   18.00  12.00        -   48.00    -    18.51   18.95    12.98        -   50.44
Subtotal Training                                                           -   23.00   23.00  17.00   5.00   68.00    -    23.65   24.22    18.38   5.55   71.80
C. Subsciptions and Assessment    each  -   1    1    1    1    4   10   -   10.00   10.00  10.00  10.00   40.00    -    10.28   10.53    10.81  11.11   42.73
Total                                                                         -  148.80  103.80  97.80  22.20  372.60    -   152.99  109.29   105.75  24.65  392.69



ARMENIA                                                                                 ANNEX 9
Education Project
Table 3. Information and Consultation Compaign
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities              Unit                    Base Cost                          Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997 1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Cost 1997  1998    1999    2000    2001    Total  1997  1998   1999   2000   2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. TV commerciaVradio/newspape    amount                                             -   18.00    18.00    18.00   9.00    63.00    -  18.61   18.95   19.46    9.99    66.92
B. Publication of brochures    amount                                                -    6.00      6.00    6.00    6.00    24.00    -   6.17   6.32   6.49    6.66    25.64
C. Newsletters                 amount                                                -    8.00      8.00    5.00    3.00    24.00    -   8.23   8.42   5.41    3.33    25.39
D. Field trips                 per diem        10    10    10    10    40  0.02    -    0.20        0.20    0.20   0.20     0.80    -   0.21   0.21    0.22   0.22       0.85
E. Workshops/Focus Groups    perworkshop  -    6    10       4     8    28      2    -   12.00    20.00     8.00   16.00    56.00    -  12.34  21.06    8.65   17.77    59.81
F. Surveys                    per survey   -    -      1     -     1     2    40    -         -   40.00        -  40.00    80.00    -       -  42.12       -  44.42    86.54
44.20    92.20    37.20  74.20   247.80    -  45.45   97.08   40.23   82.40   265.15



ARMENIA                                                                ANNEX 9
Education Project
Table 4. Managment Information System
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                                Base Cost                             Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total 1997   1998       1999    2000    2001    Total  1997  1998    1999   2000   2001         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Office rehabilitation              sq. m.      -    50      -     -          50    -    35.00         -        -       -   35.00    -   39.59        -       -       -    39.59
B. Equipment and fumiture
Fumiture                             set       -      4      -     -     -    4    -       4.00        -       -        -    4.00    -    4.11        -      -        -     4.11
Fax machines                         each       -     1      -     -     -    1    -       0.50                -        -    0.50    -    0.51        -      -              0.51
Phones                               each       -     10                      1 0          0.50                              0.50          0.51                             0.51
Computers                            each       -    35      -     -          35    -    87.50         -        -       -   87.50    -   89.97        -      -        -    89.97
Printers                             each       -    14            -       -   14          7.00                              7.00          7.20       -      -        -     7.20
UPS 1250                             each       -    14      -     -     -   14    -    18.20          -        -       -   18.20    -   18.71        -      -        -    18.71
UPS 400                              each       -     4      -     -     -    4   _        1.28                 -       -    1.28          1.32       -      -        -      1.32
Subtotal Equipment and fumiture                                                        -   118.98         -       -       -  118.98    -  122.33         -      -       -   122.33
C. Equipment for local network
Local net                            each       -     1      -     -           1    -    25.00             -            -   25.00    -   25.70        -      -              25.70
Global net                           each       -      1     -     -     -    I    -   120.00          -        -       -  120.00    -  123.38        -       -       -   123.38
Communication chanels                each       -     6    16      -          22   _       9.00     24.00       -       -   33.00   _      9.25    25.27              -    34.52
Subtotal Equipment for local network                                                   -   154.00     24.00       -       -  178.00    -  158.34    25.27       -       -   183.61
D. information and publicity            set       -      2     2     1     1     6    -      2.00      2.00    1.00    1.00    6.00    -    2.06    2.11    1.08    1.11       6.35
E. Technical assistance
1. Foreign
Short-term                     person/month   -     2      1     -           3    -    50.00     25.00       -        -   75.00    -   51.41    26.32      -        -    77.73
2. Local                         person/month   -    24    24    24    12   84    -    14.40        14.40   14.40    7.20   50.40    -   14.81    15.16  15.57    8.00      53.53
Subtotal Technical assistance                                                          -    64.40     39.40    14.40    7.20  125.40    -   66.22    41.48  15.57    8.00    131.27
F. Training
Workshops                        perworkshop   -       4     4     4     4    16    -    10.00      10.00   10.00   10.00   40.00    -   10.28    10.53  10.81    11.11     42.73
Study tours                       person/tour    -    2      2     -     -    4    -    12.00       12.00       -       -   24.00    -   12.34    12.63       -       -    24.97
Technology training              person/training   -    60   60          -  120    -    15.00       15.00       -       -   30.00    -   15.42    15.79       -       -    31.22
Total Investment Costs                                                                   -   411.38    102.40   25.40   18.20  557.38    -  426.57   107.82  27.47   20.21    582.07
II. Recurrent Costs
ComputerMaintenace                     month      -    12   12    12       -   36    -       5.28      5.28    5.28       -   15.84    -    5.43      5.56   5.71       -    16.70
Per dien/iield trips                  per tip     -    50    50    50    50   200    -       1.00      1.00    1.00    1.00    4.00    -    1.03      1.05   1.08    1.11      4.27
Total                                                                                    -   417.66    108.68   31.68   19.20  577.22    -  433.03   114.43  34.26   21.32    603.04



ARMENIA                                                                          ANNEX 9
Education Project
Table 5. School Rationalisation
Detailed Costs
(US$ o000)
Quantities              Unit               Base Cost                          Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   997 1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Cost 1997  1998   1999   2000   2001   Total  1997  1998        1999   2000   2001   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Consultant services
Local                  person/month  -   44    24    24    24   116  0.6   -  26.40   14.40  14.40  14.40   69.60   -  27.14    15.16  15.57  15.99   73.87
Foreign                person/month  -    2      -     -            2   30   -  60.00       -       -      -   60.00   -  61.69                        -   61.69
Total                                                                             -  86.40  14.40   1.0   14.40  129.60   -  88.84    15.16  15.57  15.99  135.56



ARMENIA                                                                         ANNEX9
Education Project
Table 6. Capadty Building for School Autonomy
Detailed CosXt
(USS '000)
QuantiMies             Unit                    Bass Cost                               Totals Including Contingencies
Unit    U   1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Cost 1997   1998     1999      2000    2001     Totl   1997  1998    1999    2000    2001        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical assistance
1. Foreign
Short-term               person/month  -    1    1    1      -    3   30    -    30.00    30.00    30.00          -      90.00    -   30.85   31.59   32.44              94.87
2. Local                   persontmonth  *   40   40   40   40   100   0.6 8          24.00    24.00    24.00   24.00      96.00   _    24.68   28.27   25.95   26.65     102.55
Subtotal Technical assistance                                                     -    54.00    54.00    5400   24.00       186.00    -   58.52   56.86   58.39   26.65     197.42
B. Training
Study tours                 person/tour   -    3    3    -    -    6    6    -    18.00    18.00            -       -      36.00    -   18.51    18.95      -       -      37.46
Seminars                     amount                                                  200.00   180.00   180.00  180.00    740.00    -  205.64   189.52  194.64  199.89     789.69
Other training costs         amount                                             -    50.00    50.00    50.00   50.00    200.00    -   51.41    52.64   54.07   55.53    213.65
Subtotal Training                                                                 -   268.00   248.00   230.00  230.00    976.00    -  275.55  261.12  248.71  265.42   1,040.79
C. Equipment                   amount                                             -    10.00      3.00     2.00       -      15.00    -   10.28    3.16    2.16       -      15.60
Total                                                                                -   332.00   305.00   266.00  254.00   1,177.00    -  341.36  321.13  309.26  282.07   1,253.82



ARMENIA                                                                             ANNEXI9
Education Project
Table 7. Pilot School Improvement Program
Detailed Costs
(US$ 1000)
QuantItes               Unit                    Bass Cost                                 Totals Including Contingencies
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total Cost  1997   1998    1999    2000    2001         Total    19~97   1998    1999    2000    2001        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Microprojects for SIP           each        -   10    30    40    40   120    15       -150.00   450.00   600.00   600.00   1,800.00       -154.23   473.80   648.80   668.30      1,943.13
B. Information and publicity   per compaign    -          1      1     1     4      1           1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00      4.00     -    1.03      1.05     1.08    1.11        4.27
C. Technical assistance
1. Foreign
Short-term                personmonth           i     -     -      -          25          25.00        -       -        -      25.00     . 25.70          -        --               25.70
2. Local                     person/month    -          5     5      5    20   0.6      -     3.00    3.00     3.00    3.00      12.00     -     3.08     3.16    3.24     3.33       12.82
Subtotal Technicai assistance                                                                  28.00    3.00     3.00    3.00      37.00     - 28.79        3.16     3.24    3.33       38.52
D. Training
Voilcshops                   per workshop    -    4     4      4          12   2.5      - 10.00    10.00    10.00         -      30.00     - 10.28    10.53    10.81          -       31.62
Study tours                  persontmonth   -    4       -     -           4     6          24.00                -               24.00          24.681       -                        24.68
Total                                                                                            213.00   464.00   61400   60400   1,895.00     -2`19.00   488564   63.93   605          2,042.22



ARMENIA                                                                       ANNEXI9
Education Project
Table 8. Support for Project Implementation
Detailed Costs
(USs '000)
Quantites                Unit                  Base Cost                               Totals Including Contingencies
Unit   1997 1998  1999  2000  2001  Total  Cost 1997  1998    1999    2000    2001          Total  1997  1998    1999    2000    2001       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Office rehabilitation            sq.m.      -   75            -      -    75   0.7    -   52.50         -        -       -    52.50    -   59.38                                59.38
B. Equipment and furniure
Computers                         each       -    8                         8   2.5    -   20.00         -       -        -    20.00    -   20.56             -            -    20.56
Phones                            each            3      -                  3   0.5          1.0                                 1.50         1.54                               1.54
Phone stations                    each       -    I      -                         1          1.00                               1.00         1.03                                1.03
Fax modem                         each       -    1      -           -  -   1   0.5           0.50                               0.50         0.1                                 0.51
Copy machine                      each       -    1      -     -     -      1      3    -    3.00        -       -               3.00    -    3.08        -       -        -      3.08
Pnriters                          each       -    4      -           -      4   0.6    -    2.40         -       -        -      2.40    -    2.47        -       .              2.47
UPS                               each       -    8            .     .      8  0.35    .    2.80         -       -        -      2.80    .    2.88        -       -        -      2.88
Fumiture                           set       -   17      -     -     -    17       1    -   17.00                -        -    17.00    *   17.48         -                      17.48
Typewriter                        each       -    1      -     -     -      1  0.35    -    0.35         -       -        -      0.35    *    0.36        -       -        -      0.36
Overhead projector                each       -    1      -     -     -      1   0.5           0.50                               0.50         0.51                                0.51
Video equipment                   each       -    1      -     -      -      1     1    -    1.00        -        -              1.00    -    1.03                -        -      1.03
Heater                            each       -    3      -     -     -      3  0.12    -    0.36         -       -        -      0.36    -    0.37        -       -        -     0.37
Small office equipment            each       -    5      -     -      -     5   0.4   _       2.00       -       -        -      2.00   _     2.06                -    _         2.06
Subtotal Equipment and furniture                                                          -   52.41        -        -       -    52.41    *   53.89         -       -        -    53.89
C. Vehiices                        amount      -    4      -      -     -      4    10    -   40.00        -        -       -    40.00    -   41.13         -       -        -    41.13
D. Local technical assistance    persontmonth   -    4     3     3     3      13   0.5    -    2.00     1.50    1.50     1.50      6.50    -    2.06     1.58     1.62    1.67      6.92
E. Training
Management                     person/month   -    2     -     -      -      2     4    -    8.00        -        -       -      8.00    -    8.23        -       -        -      8.23
Disbursement                   person/month   -    3     -     -      -      3     4    -   12.00        -       -              12.00        12.34        -       -              12.34
Procurement                    person/month   -    2     -     -      -     2      4    -    8.00        -       -        -      8.00    -    8.23        -       -        -      8.23
English language               persontmonth   -   10        -         -    10   0.2    -    2.00         -       -        -      2.00    -    2.06        -       -        -      2.06
Accounting                     person/month   -    2     -      -            2     4    -    8.00                 -       -      8.00    *    8.23        -        -       -      8.23
Study tours                    person/month   -    2     2     -      -     4      6    -   12.00    12.00        -       -    24.00    -   12.34    12.63        -        -    24.97
Total Investment Costs                                                                       -  196.91    13.50    1.50     1.50    213.41    -  207.86    14.21    1.62     1.67    225.36
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff salares                 amount/month   -  276   276   276   276  1,104 0.407    -  112.33   112.33   112.33   112.33    449.33    -  115.50   118.27   121.47   124.75    479.98
B. SocialSecurity                  amount      -   12    12   12    12        48 3.369    -   40.43   40.43   40.43    40.43    161.71    -   41.57    42.57    43.72    44.90    172.75
C. Auditing                         amount     -    1      1     1      1      4    15    -   15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    60.00    -   15.42    15.79    16.22    16.66    64.09
D. Field tips/perdiem            mounttperdie   -  200   200   200   200    800  0.02    -    4.00    4.00    4.00       4.00     16.00    -    4.11     4.21     4.33    4.44     17.09
E. Equipmentmaintanance             month      -   12    12    12    12       48  0.15    -    1.80      1.80    1.80     1.80     7.20    -    1.85     1.90     1.95    2.00      7.69
F. Fuel                            amount      -   12    12    12    12       48   0.8    -    9.60    9.60    9.60      9.60     38.40    -    9.87    10.11    10.38    10,66    41.02
G. Vehicle maintanance             amount      -   12    12    12    12       48   0.4    -    4.80    4.80      4.80    4.80     19.20    -    4.94     5.05     5.19    5.33     20.51
H. Officesupply                     month           12    12    12    12      48   0.4    -    4.80    4.80    4.80      4.80     19.20    -    4.94     5.05     5.19    5.33     20.51
1. Miscellaneous                    month      -   12    12    12    12       48   0.2    -    2.40    2.40    2.40      2.40      9.60    -    2.47     2.53     2.60    2.67     10.25
J. Telecommunication
Installation                      month      -    1      -     -      -      1   0.6    -    0.60        -        -       -      0.60    -    0.62        -       -        -      0.62
Open intemet                      month      -    I         -      -         1   0.1    -    0.10        -        -       -      0.10         0.10        -       -        -      0.10
Intemet                           month      -   12    12    12    12      48  0.09    -    1.08    1.08       1.08    1.08      4.32    -    1.11     1.14     1.17    1.20      4.61
Phone/fax                         month      -   12    12    12    12      48   0.3    -    3.60    3.60       3.60    3.60     14.40    -    3.70     3.79     3.89    4.00     15.38
ElectronicMail                    month      -   12    12    12    12       48   0.1    -    1.20     1.20    1.20     1.20      4.80    -    1.23     1.26     1.30    1.33      5.13
Subtotal elecommunicaton                                                                   .    6.58     5.88    5.88     5.88    24.22    -    6.77     6.19     6.36    6.53     25.84
K. Utilities                        month      -   12    12    12       6     42  0.05    -    0.60    0.60    0.60       0.30     2.10   _      0.62    0.63     0.65    0.33      2.23
Total                                                                                        -  399.25  215.14   203.14  202.84  1,020.37    -  415.90   226.52   219.66   225.26  1,087,34



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
Selected Documents in Project Files
1.    Gomart, E. Social Assessment Report on the Education and Health Sectors in
Armenia, Consultant report, 1995
2.    Orivel, Francois. The Strategy of Armenia for Developing its Educational System.
World Bank, 1997
3.    Sack, Richard. Education in Armenia: The Issues of Revitalization, EC4MS,
World Bank. 1995
4.    Schmidt, M. Health and Education Expenditures in the Republic of Armenia,
Consultant report. 1995.
5.    Armenia: Confronting Poverty Issues, World Bank, 1996
6.    Public Expenditure Review in Armenia: Strategic Spending for
Creditworthiness and Growth, draft report, World Bank, 1997.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28874
Ad'                     T~~~~oSRuavIoo .          h,^                                            45A11.                                                                                         .>.-.
GEORGIA                          o- :                                                                                                GEORGIA,
AI            RNJ0bA                                                                                                                                                         ISAZAKSTAN
0!,;,_-<  .%:.                                                                                                    \MO 4Tashir  o;4o Xyamberiln    > r  )    $   MOLDO\FFDERATION  \
0 \ R I C
'  Ash      N       - '          ¾.                                                                                                 /-rreis%'{'OJE TDTWSV fE
SpitxkE                                             (o B.d                                             MINGE\UR          YE                                 A    I A.ERBAL
T                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~RESERVOIR                                                   6y    'RJKMENISTAN
Vedi .w  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - -                                                                                  *\/",RGO bAR]EUDRE
Akh                                                                                                                                             SY/  4  -   -  INTERIATIONAL  EISLAMIC REPULIC
(kvARAB                                                                                                                                                           IRAQ                  OF IRAN
N  OA                                               -M6ddRUF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~~~s9s, ~~~~~~~REP  .
R.                    C.7 -d - ~               <,tX    A EREA                     ,.         AZERBAIJAN
GA VARn>Rr Xu  $EVAN                     - REPUELIC                                          REPUBLIC  OF ARMENIA
- n,ANovG   E G        G            R                                                          -eN
Mozro   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io                            RESERVOIRS
YEVN                                                                                                                            0   SELECTED TOWNS/VILLAGES
AR   VIE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~    ~          ~                       '~~~~~~ ~V.s c-in I                                                                 REGION IMARZ) CAP TALS
®NATIONAL CAP TAL
RIVERS
40'RAR                                                                                                                                                                                          PRIMARY d rmOva dSB* '"RR
*ARSASHAS  I                                                                                      00O  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
REGION (MAR11 BOUJNDARIES
I NTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
44'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                       l n c o   /     4      5         10               -   5        4 7 M43'
l  l                                                   l                                                     |                                         _        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JULY1I997









IMAGING
Report No.:      16474  AM
Type:    SAR



