Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14791
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1898-LSO)
JUNE 30, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of May 1995)
Currency Unit  =   Maloti (M)
US$1.00 = M3.67
M 1.00 = US$0.27
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      39.37 inches or 3.28 feet
kilometer (km)  =   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)  =   1,000 litres
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DOH           =         Department of Housing
GOL           =         Government of Lesotho
LBFC          =         Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
LEC           =         Lesotho Electricity Corporation
LEHCO-OP   =            Lower Income Housing Corporation
LHC           =         Lesotho Housing Corporation
LHLDC         =         Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation
LNDC          =         Lesotho National Development Corporation
LSPP          =         Lesotho Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning
MICARD        =         Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development
MCC           =         Maseru City Council
MTO           =         Maseru Township Office
PMT           =         Project Management Team
PPF           =         Project Preparation Facility
SDA           =         Selected Development Area
SPU                     Special Project Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
[CREDIT 1898-LSO]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE ............................................ 1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................ i
Part I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................1......................... 
A. Introduction .............................................1
B. Evaluation of Project Objectives                ..1....................................... 
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................ 2
D. Project Sustainability ............................................ 8
E. Bank Performance .............................................                                8
F. Borrower Performance ............................................ 9
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................ 9
H. Future Operations ............................................ 10
I. Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned ............................................   10
Part II.   Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Part III.  Statistical Tables
Table 1:        Summary of Assessments
Table 2:        Related IDA Credit
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:        Project Costs
Table 6:        Project Financing
Table 7:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 8:        Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:       Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Appendixes
A.    MCC Component
B.    LHLDC Component
C.    Main Events Leading to Project Cancellation
D.    Key Policy Issues in the Lesotho Urban Sector
E.    Mission's Aide-Memoire
F.    Maps: (i) The Kingdom of Lesotho - Location of Project
(ii) City of Maseru - Location of Project Components in Maseru



LESOTHO
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
[CREDIT 1898-LSO]
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Urban Sector Reorientation Project in
The Kingdom of Lesotho, for which Credit 1898-LSO in the amount of US$20.4 million equivalent was
approved on April 19, 1988 and became effective on April 3, 1989.
2.    The credit was canceled by Government on March 30, 1994, before the December 31, 1994, original
closing date. The final disbursement took place on December 1, 1994. The canceled amount is SDR
10,917,156.54 (US$17.1 million equivalent). The reconciliation of the Project Special Accounts took place
on June 25, 1995, and the closing date is expected for July 31, 1995. Co-financing for the project was to be
provided by the Kingdom of Lesotho, Maseru City Council, and Lesotho Building Finance Corporation.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Richard James, Consultant, reviewed by Mr. Bernard Becq, Task
Manager, Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division (AFlEI), and cleared by Mr. John Roome, Acting
Division Chief, Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division (AFlEI), and Mr. Jaime Roman, Acting
Operations Adviser, Country Department I, Southern Africa Region.
4.     Preparation of this ICR began during a Bank's mission to Lesotho from April 17 to May 4, 1995.
The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






LESOTHO
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
[CREDIT 1898-LSO]
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.  The Urban Development Project (Cr. 1036-LSO) was the first IDA-assisted operation in the Urban Sector
in Lesotho which demonstrated the viability of an approach to delivering affordable urban services to the
majority of urban residents. The Urban Sector Reorientation Project (USRP), approved by the Board on April
19, 1988, and declared effective after an extension on April 3, 1989, was built as a follow-up to the first
project. It aimed at supporting the Government of Lesotho's (GOL) efforts in introducing Local Government
policy reform in the country, and reducing the need for Central Government transfers and subsidies to the
urban sector.
A. Project Objectives
2.  The Project aimed at: (i) supporting the development of decentralized local urban management by
making Maseru City Council (MCC) fully operational; (ii) restructuring the institutions responsible for the
supply of housing into a single new agency called Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation
(LHLDC), and ensuring increased supply of houses; (iii) increasing the availability of long-term finance to a
broad range of income groups for plot purchase and house development through the Lesotho Building Finance
Corporation (LBFC); (iv) improving the functioning of urban land markets and introduce truer economic land
pricing through MCC and the Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning (LSPP) in the Ministry of
Interior, Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development (MICARD, now Ministry of Home Affairs); and (v)
promoting sound cost recovery policies and practices.
3.  The Project had three major components: (a) Five-Year Plan of MCC, providing for its establishment
costs, and its recurrent and investment program (upgrading of roads and public amenities under its new
jurisdiction, and upgrading of 3,000 plots at a major peri-urban area); (b) housing development and finance,
including the implementation of a site and services scheme by LHLDC under which infrastructure works were
to be carried out, and the provision of housing finance mortgages by LBFC for both plot purchase and house
construction at Ha Thetsane site, and home improvement and/or new house construction in the Maseru South
upgrading area; and (c) technical assistance and training to strengthen Project agencies.
4.  During negotiations, agreements critical to the accomplishment of the development objectives of the
Project were reached with GOL to: (i) adopt a National Urban Housing Policy (to be prepared by the
Department of Housing-DOH in MICARD) and its Implementation Plan, (ii) amend the Land Act of 1979,
and (iii) to provide a subvention of one million Maloti to MCC, and a yearly contribution to MCC of about six
hundred fifty thousand Maloti (in lieu of rates for its properties within the municipal area). With the exception
of two covenants -(i) borrower carrying out a review by June 30, 1989, to determine the steps leading to the
phasing out of subventions to MCC, and (ii) adoption of a National Urban Housing Policy and Implementation
Plan by December 31, 1988- all other agreements were complied with, although usually with prolonged delays
(table 8).
5.  The Project's development objectives were clearly defined and were essential to implement critical
policy and institutional reform in Lesotho. The project design although complex, in particular with regard to



- ii -
institutional arrangements to change the financial and organizational framework for housing and service
delivery was the result of extensive and participatory preparatory work between the Bank and GOL.
B. Implementation Experience and Results
6.  If most physical targets have been substantially achieved, policy objectives have generally not met with
sustainable success. At the time of project effectiveness, the first independent local government in Maseru had
just been elected under a non-elected military regime, in a country which had no such precedence, and most
early procurement documents for civil works had been prepared. Early implementation was good, but soon
Central Government's lack of experience, continuous interference and control over municipal finance and
administration through such prerogatives as authorizing tax rates and recruitment, resulted in rapid
deterioration of institutional relationships with MCC, lack of ownership by MCC, and slow response from
other Implementing Agencies. This was aggravated by MCC's own lack of efficiency and capacity to properly
carry out those functions it had been endowed with, which seriously hampered proper implementation of the
project.
7.  The financial objectives of the Project for targeted populations (affordable plot prices for low income
beneficiaries, and housing mortgage financing) were not achieved, and those for MCC (full infrastructure cost
recovery, property rate collection, and settlement of public arrears) were realized with too many delays,
largely as a result of a non-conducive environment resulting primarily from conflict between the elected MCC
councilors, and (at that time) a non-elected Central Government. Other key institutional objectives such as
transforming MCC into an entity capable of delivering services and reaching full financial self-sufficiency
and accountability, setting a sustainable policy of providing housing loans to urban poor through LBFC,
and making LHLDC financially viable, have not been achieved. Moreover, the housing policy prepared by
DOH was adopted but never put into action.
8.  The main reasons for the limited success in project implementation are: (i) inadequate staffing and poor
administrative and technical management capacity in MCC, which inefficiently used technical assistance could
not alleviate; (ii) lack of continuous commitment by Central Government in providing a supportive role to
strengthen the local tier of government, and inability to define and implement a sustainable and workable local
government policy; (iii) failure to implement adequate property-rate recovery procedures, and more generally
to establish an appropriate fiscal structure; (iv) inadequate degree of responsibility and financial autonomy of
local government, and unresolved legislative issues relating to land tenure and share of responsibilities
between Central and Local Government; (v) interdependency of MCC with multiple other urban institutions,
and lack of capacity by MICARD to coordinate the agencies involved; and (vi) merger of LBFC within the
commercial Lesotho Bank (LB), without LB really taking over responsibilities.
9.  A key issue which underlie many of the difficulties encountered with project implementation, was the
phasing of the relationship between, on the one hand, the MCC establishment process and, on the other hand,
the determination of investment priorities and policy/management obligations of the future MCC. The project
preparation cycle pursued both in parallel. Thus the success of the establishment and electoral process in
creating MCC, a major political achievement, was undermined by the newly elected officials inheriting
commitments in which they had not participated. This conflict was exacerbated by the lack of prior
experience with elected local government practices and responsibilities.
10. The main accomplishments and/or failures for each implementing agency are summarized below:
(a)    MCC failed to establish itself as a financially self-sufficient and accountable local authority
due to the institutional constraints described above, although some progress has been



- iii -
achieved in cost recovery and financial management capacity. It did not achieve most of its
physical objectives largely because an informal suspension of disbursements to MCC was
established as a result of the failure of MCC to strengthen its rate collection management
system, coupled with a complex and over-extended court system which failed to expeditiously
settle rate default cases; in addition, (i) inadequate human resource management; and (ii)
ineffective role of the Special Project Unit (SPU) in day-to-day coordination and monitoring
of MCC's functions, also contributed to the poor performance by MCC.
(b)    LHLDC performed satisfactorily in terms of physical implementation, staffing retrenchment
took place, and its strengthening was real despite failure to set suitable plot pricing policies
and beneficiary eligibility and allocation criteria. Of its two principal physical objectives,
LHLDC was successful in constructing 1,540 serviced residential plots (against 1,500
envisaged) at Ha Thetsane site, but failed to commercialize them, in particular the 600 high-
income plots, due to inadequate plot pricing policies.
(c)    LSPP established both a sound valuation role as well as procedures for maintaining, updating
and revaluing it. The major revenue generating properties were incorporated in the role and
available to MCC for its rates collection program; however LSPP was unable to accelerate its
process of granting leases and regularizing land tenure arrangements in the peri-urban
neighborhoods, thus not allowing MCC to charge for infrastructure provided and/or levying
rates to recover costs in these areas. The main reasons for this were: (i) lack of control over
financial resources; (ii) lack of personnel (field staff, surveyors etc.); and (iii) lack of
equipment and vehicles.
(d)    LBFC achievements have been unsatisfactory, despite its success in increasing its recovery
rate from 50% to 80%. Neither a review of its interest rates for mortgages, nor a program to
increase collection of mortgage payments were conducted, and no mortgage loan was
processed under the project due to LBFC's inability to attract borrowers in spite of offering
lower interest rates than what was commercially available, which jeopardized LHLDC
achievements. This is deemed to be the result of the general perception of prospective
borrowers that the price of plots, as well as the construction costs, were too high.
11. Project Sustainability.  Since the Project, as a whole, did not achieve most of its development
objectives, it is unlikely to achieve sustainability. In particular, policy reforms with regard to the authority of
local governments to mobilize resources and enforce tax collection, low-income groups' access to housing
finance, and coordination of services delivery mechanisms and agencies, which are essential to sustainable and
harmonious urban development, are still to be implemented. Physical progress which was nevertheless
achieved (serviced plots, infrastructure) could also be lacking sustainability, if lack of maintenance by MCC
keeps occurring, and if GOL does not design and implement sustainable financing mechanisms to deal with
high-cost plot prices.
12. Project Costs, Financing and Schedule. Project cost was US$42.2 million, and financed by: (i) an
IDA Credit of US$20.4 million (about 48% of total project costs); (ii) US$5.1 million from MCC out of its
own generated revenues; (iii) US$12.7 million from LBFC out of capital raised through its savings schemes
and other borrowing; and (iv) US$4.0 million from Government through budgetary allocations to MCC. As
of December 1, 1994, the Bank had disbursed only $5.36 million. On March 11, 1994, following a large
review mission by the Bank and subsequent agreement, GOL canceled the undisbursed amount of $17.1
million as of March 30, 1994, nine months before the expected closing date of December 31, 1994. Formal



- iv -
closing took, however, more than a year due to the difficulties encountered in reconciling the Special
Accounts operated by MCC and LHLDC.
C. Project Outcome
13. Although the Project was able to achieve parts of its physical objectives, the overall outcome is
unsatisfactory due to development objectives on the institutional side not being met and lack of
sustainability.
14. On the whole, the Bank's performance is deemed satisfactory. The Project was prepared in close
coordination with GOL, and its focus adequately put on institutional reforms. However, the pace at which
continuing policy reforms could be implemented and capacity building strengthened under this very Project
did not materialize as expected due to institutional changes and to the complex political environment at that
time. During the implementation stage, close contact was maintained with the Borrower, and the Bank
provided continuous guidance. In particular, the Bank's care in supervising the project implementation
process is demonstrated by the informal suspension of disbursements for the MCC institutional development
plan as soon as financial covenants were not complied with. The Bank's supervision performnance could have
been more timely when performance became poor in all institutional respects and implementation stalled.
Agreed time-bound action plans, which later proved inefficient, nevertheless allowed physical achievements to
take place under the project. More drastic restructuring could have been given consideration, although it is
felt that the institutional blockages and the lack of efficiency of the Borrower agencies could not have been
overcome at the time. By early 1993, no action plan or restructuring was likely to bring about any major
change in implementation, due to the many constraints faced by the various implementing agencies and the
general lack of commitment of the Borrower to proceed with the Project, and the Bank could have
considered earlier cancellation of the Project.
15. The Borrower performance can only be rated as unsatisfactory.  During Project preparation, the
Borrower performed satisfactorily and a high level of commitment was demonstrated by Government, and the
Project was the result of a cooperative effort between the Borrower and the Bank.  However, during
implementation, the Borrower's performance deteriorated sharply and rapidly. It appears that the Borrower
may have overestimated at the time of project preparation the difficulty of coordinating a project of this
magnitude, and may have realized after effectiveness that the newly-created local government (with elected
officials of a different party) had its own perspective on Maseru development and relations with Central
Government. GOL failed to bring about legislative changes that were crucial for project implementation, and
to provide a clear framework for devolving responsibilities to local government. Moreover, the Borrower
failed to coordinate the numerous implementing agencies, and to enforce actions to be carried out by each
agency, which had negative impacts on the ability of the others to perform. During implementation, project
ownership was never truly achieved, and the main stakeholders never took the necessary steps to fully
participate in project implementation. After 1993, the new Government's commitment to local government
affairs was hampered by its inability to design and support a new approach to urban management, and to
improve project coordination and implementation due to the general lack of administrative capacity in
implementing agencies.
D.  Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
16.  The key lessons drawn for project implementation and defining policy reforms in the urban sector are
that:



- v -
(i)    For complex urban operations, an integrated sector approach defining a common framework
for all stakeholders would be beneficial.  In particular, a two-phase approach, actively
pursuing institutional and capacity building objectives with limited investments in the first
phase, and major investment activities (the content and extent of which would be dimensioned
after review of progress with institutional and policy aspects) mainly concentrated in the
second phase, could prove useful and would allow full participation of stakeholders who may
not be available in advance of the first phase.
(ii)    Expectations on the institutions' capacity to undertake investment activities should be matched
with implementation capacity taking account of the demands concurrently being made to bring
about changes in the policy and regulatory framework.  Technical assistance should be
carefully designed to match short-term implementation requirements and ensure transfer of
know-how, and be carefully monitored through agreed criteria to measure success.
(iii)   The involvement and commitment of all stakeholders, including beneficiaries, from  the
preparation stage is a necessary ingredient to success. Up front policy action plans to be
agreed in collaboration with all stakeholders, and restructuring are required to bring about
changes. Beneficiary assessments, consultations, and resettlement plans are to be designed
early in project preparation.
(iv)    The addition of local governments to the range of agencies through which public services are
delivered, inevitably raises areas of overlap and coordination.  An appropriate urban
management policy, institutional framework, and the necessary communication channels and
forums through which to coordinate needs and resolve conflicts, are essential.
(v)    The objective for MCC should now be to seek a match between resources and responsibilities
rather than to establish full financial self sufficiency at this stage of its development. The
current resource base is too narrow and a number of steps to augment sources of local
revenue, in parallel with decreasing Central Government matching grants, needs-based
subventions and performance related assistance, are required.
(vi)    The establishment and implementation of a housing policy, the sustainability of land
management procedures and the improvement of valuation procedures, the strengthening of
financial institutions involved in mortgage financing, and the implementation of financially-
accessible serviced plots in peri-urban areas are key issues for developing an urban strategy.
17.    Future Operations: No operation in the urban sector is planned as part of the CAS. However, an
important aspect to addressing the key issues of poverty reduction and delivery of basic services will be the
strengthening of the local government structure in Lesotho.






LESOTHO
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1898-LSO
Part I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The Bank's initial involvement in the sector began in 1980 with the First Urban Project (Credit
1036-LSO) (Urban 1). Its primary objectives were to strengthen urban sector institutions, introduce least-
cost housing and related infrastructure services that would be affordable to low-income urban residents, and
set up greater replicability of those investments through improved cost recovery.
2.    Urban I was instrumental in assisting Government of Lesotho (GOL) in laying the foundation for
the above objectives by encouraging enactment of legislation such as the Urban Government Act, the
Municipal Valuation and Rating Act and the Town and Country Planning Act. Appropriate standards for
housing and infrastructure services were designed and national standards adopted, and the principle of
charging and collecting fees for the full costs of urban services and housing became accepted GOL policy.
The Project provided the basis for a new approach to delivering affordable urban services to the majority of
urban residents.
3.    Under Urban I, and during preparation of the Urban Sector Reorientation Project (USRP), the
Maseru City Council (MCC) was established (becoming the first urban Local authority in the country);
USRP was built on the perceived success of the first project, and was aimed at making MCC fully
operational, extending the process of institutional strengthening to other key agencies in the sector,
ensuring that revised policies of cost recovery and mobilization of alternative resources to Central
Government funds for local government were adopted and implemented, and embarking on a program of
least-cost infrastructure and housing solutions.
B. Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The main objectives of the USRP were:
(a)   to support the development of decentralized urban management by making MCC fully
operational;
(b)   to restructure the institutions responsible for the supply of urban housing into a single new
agency called Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation (LHLDC), in order to
improve efficiency and ensure an increased supply of houses, secure independence from
GOL funding over time, and remove duplication of responsibilities;
(c)   to increase the availability of long-term  finance through Lesotho Building Finance
Corporation (LBFC) to a broad range of income groups for plot purchase and house
development;



- 2 -
(d)   to improve the functioning of the urban land markets, increase the supply of land available
for residential purposes, and introduce truer economic land pricing through the Department
of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning (LSPP) in the Ministry of Interior, Chieftainship
Affairs and Rural Development (now Ministry of Home Affairs); and
(e)   to promote sound cost recovery policies and practices.
5.    Development objectives were clearly defined to implement critical policy and institutional reform in
Lesotho. The Project was complex in its attempt at introducing urban government in a country which had
no such precedence, in particular with regard to institutional arrangements to change the financial and
organizational framework for housing and service delivery, and was the result of extensive and participatory
preparatory work between the Bank and GOL. The Project objectives also fully supported the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy of reducing the need for Central Government transfers and subsidies to the
urban sector, and of reducing the scale of parastatals operating in the sector. Overall, most development
objectives of the Project were not successfully achieved.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.     The following factors summarize why only marginal success was accomplished. Most have to do
with pending legislative issues and the lack of a regulatory framework, and with the lack of implementation
capacity and coordination of implementing agencies by Central Government.
7.    Govermnent Commitment.  At the time of Project effectiveness, the first independent Local
Government was elected in Maseru under a non-elected military regime that had no experience in providing
a supportive role to bolster such a tier of Government. Government commitment quickly faded as is
reflected, for instance, by its non-compliance with the covenant to transfer its financial commitments
towards MCC during the initial crucial years of the Project (according to DCA 4.03, GOL was to provide a
subvention of one million Maloti to MCC on a yearly basis up to FY 92/93, and also to make a yearly
contribution of about six hundred fifty thousand Maloti to MCC in lieu of rates for its properties within the
municipal area).
8.    Environment For Property-Rate. It was extremely difficult for the general public to comprehend
the concept of property rates, especially when land has traditionally been freely granted through the
chieftainship system.  The implementing agency that was responsible for rate collection (MCC)
encountered extreme opposition in its collection endeavors as people were not in the rate paying culture,
and GOL did not provide support as the issue became politically sensitive. For the more formal sector
(commercial and industrial), which generate the bulk of the property taxes, a tradition of non-payment
before the establishment of MCC could not be reversed. In addition the major rate payer in Maseru (the
Lesotho National Development Corporation - LNDC) could not be induced to pay either its rate arrears or
its current obligations, and Government was unwilling to intervene.
9.    Inadequate Land Administration. One of the major problems that became obvious after Project
effectiveness was the land issue at Ha Thetsane where 1,500 serviced plots were to be provided. As this
area remained under a traditional chieftainship where land was allocated free of charge, MCC faced
extreme difficulties in removing the dwellers who were occupying the land at that time. The Land
Administration function was still with the Commissioner of Land who had legislative authority to take
actions against such unlawful dwellers, but chose to be lax as it became a political issue. It was not until



- 3 -
1991, when the Land Administration functions were transferred to MCC, that the dwellers could be
removed after restitution. A key issue here is that no plan for resettlement was included in the project.
10.   The Urban Government Act of 1983. This Act provides only a loose legal framework in many
respects, and underlies many of the management problems in MCC. There is general disagreement
regarding the role of Central Government in Local Government affairs, and the responsibilities of each
entity involved in urban development. Initially under the Act the Minister's powers were constrained by the
obligation to allow Councils to make representation before exercising his own powers of disallowance,
amendment and disapproval. However, in 1991, by Order No. 11, the legislation was weakened by taking
away all such powers from the councilors. The Ministry now appoints, not only all the executives of
MCC, but from time to time also interferes in MCC junior and support level staff recruitment. These
interventions affect the smooth running of the Council, especially if the person designated in not properly
qualified.
11.   Legal Framework to the Collection Process. It is apparent that the court processes, essentially
based on civil action, are cumbersome in that they require extensive court appearances. Court capacity is
seriously constrained.  Follow-up on court orders is extremely weak and consequently undermines
whatever actions manage to make their way through the court system. The Bank made repeated requests to
GOL to revise the legislation to provide for procedures similar to those utilized to follow up on income tax
and sales tax defaulters. In August 1990, GOL assured the Bank that the revision would be effected but
this was never carried out. It is probably the primary factor why MCC could not effectively collect its
property rates.
12.   The Deeds Registry Act of 1967.  This Act prohibits purchase or transfer of "immovable
property" by married women without the written consent of their husbands. This provision has serious
repercussions as most women in Ha Thetsane or Maseru South may have been discouraged from applying
for mortgage loans while their husbands had migrated (mostly to South Africa) in search of jobs. This Act
does not only limit women's access to land, but also marginalises their access to credit facilities as they
cannot pledge anything valuable as collateral for securing a loan.
13.   Interdependencies of Implementing Agencies.  This Project involved multiple implementing
agencies including MCC, LHLDC, DOH and LSPP, LBFC, and Lesotho Bank (LB), which were
interdependent in that lack of action from any of them would affect performance of the others, and in
particular MCC.  This interdependency among agencies created implementation problems in many
instances, as highlighted below:
(a)    MCC's performance was contingent upon LSPP's survey and land valuation work. LSPP
is yet to successfully bring all the properties in its valuation roll that come under MCC's
jurisdiction. Failure to carry out this major activity contributed to MCC not being able to
collect property rates;
(b)    LHLDC's function of selling plots at Ha Thetsane was dependent on how successful LBFC
was in providing house mortgage loans to the borrowers for subsequent construction.
There is no record that LBFC provided loans to Thetsane residents; and
(c)    Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC), which was MCC's single largest
ratepayer, resisted payment of its industrial rates.  Because of the magnitude of the



- 4 -
outstanding debt (over three million Maloti in 1990), MCC could not effectively fulfill its
own financial obligations towards its debtors.  It was only in 1991, after the Bank's
repeated warnings to MCC to resolve the issue, that LNDC formally committed itself to
paying its debt, but it was not until January 1993 that LNDC actually settled the
outstanding amount by paying one-third up front and agreeing to pay the balance on an
agreed schedule.
14.   Conflicts between Councilors, MCC Officers and Advisers. MCC started off in a situation
where political activities were legally banned under Order No. 4 of 1986. Most of the members of the
Council belonged to the Basotho Congress Party (BCP) while the military Government had Basotho
National Party (BNP) support.  This manifested in misunderstanding, non-communication and non-
cooperation and conflicts between Councilors, MCC executives, and Councilors and the parent Ministry of
Interior. Mud slinging and allegations of corruption among MCC employees, advisors, and councilors was
common place. As early as six months after Project effectiveness, staff discipline in the municipality
started deteriorating.
15.   In September 1989, the elected councilors took a decision to dismiss the Town Clerk for
corruption. GOL intervened and quickly changed the legislation taking away all power from the councilors
to dismiss any MCC employee. Later, a Commission of Inquiry resulted in the suspension of all the
Councilors' activities and the city being run without a Mayor, Deputy Mayor or any other councilors. In
this politically charged atmosphere, four Town Clerks had to leave. With the passage of time and the high
turnover of senior staff at MCC, compounded by the unfamiliarity with the Bank's guidelines and
procedures, especially as regards procurement and Special Accounts, it became exceedingly difficult for
MCC to function effectively.
16.   Merger of LBFC with Lesotho Bank (LB). On April 1, 1993, GOL decided on the merger of
LBFC within LB. LBFC, under the Project, had the objective of providing mortgage loans to prospective
residents of Ha Thetsane. Although LB has retained the mortgage financing mandate of LBFC under the
same conditions of eligibility, at the present time overall housing loans account for only 1 % of its lending
portfolio.
17.   Physical targets, set to help achieve the Project objectives, and carried out by the four main
implementing agencies (MCC, LHLDC, LSPP, and LBFC) show a mixed result. Under MCC, little
physical objectives were realized and the achievement accomplished was negligible (although this is directly
linked to the decision to informally suspend all disbursements for MCC-related non-TA expenditures);
LHLDC achieved substantial physical objectives (among others, 1,540 serviced plots were constructed
against 1,500 envisaged); LSPP objectives were partially   achieved, (e.g. Thamaes successfully
incorporated in the tax roll, and valuation of Maseru partially completed); and LBFC did not make any
mortgage loans.
MCC Component
18.   Major areas of concern, which impacted on the efficiency of MCC operations, focus primarily on
what affected MCC's ability to generate revenues and collect much needed resources, i.e. property valuation
(on which property taxation is based, and in particular the delays in rating peri-urban areas), leasing of land
(which could generate funds for capital development), and planning standards (resulting in wasteful use of land
and inefficient plot configurations which impact on MCC requirements for servicing development and for



operation and maintenance). MCC's inability to effectively collect rates, and its failure to pursue rates
defaulters through the inefficient court systems, seriously hampered Project execution. Low achievement in
this regard was aggravated by poor relations with infrastructure delivery agencies.
1:9.   MCC was not able to achieve its physical investment objectives, although preparatory work was
carried out at project inception, due to factors beyond its control (the informal suspension of disbursements)
as well as inadequate staffing and poor management of the Project. Staff skills required for accretion of new
financing and planning responsibilities, and taking over more service-providing activities, were also missing.
Two other issues were not addressed, traditional leadership and a more systematic and open attitude towards
public relations.
20.   Some of the main reasons why MCC could not successfully met all its objectives are summarized as
follows (Appendix A):
(a)   the establishment process of MCC pre-empted the ownership by its elected officials of the
investment and performance obligations included under the project, which also made it
difficult to get any cooperation from the tax payers and constituents;
(b)    problems outside the jurisdiction of MCC such as regulatory limitations conceming: (i)
land administrative issues (mainly removal of squatters); and (ii) prosecution of defaulters
who persistently manipulated the system to their advantage;
(c)   inadequate financial resources because of: (i) prolonged delays in transference of GOL's
fmancial commitments (subvention and contribution in lieu of rates); (ii) continuous default
by major ratepayers (LNDC); and (iii) alleged mismanagement of financial resources.
Documents reflecting such allegations are available in files;
(d)    weak rates collection management system, coupled with a complex and over-extended court
system, and lack of proper filing;
(e)   inadequate human resource management, lack of qualified staff experienced in Local
Government procedures, unresolved tensions between expatriate advisers and MCC
management, confrontations between MCC management and elected municipal councilors,
and conflict between elected MCC officials and Central Government; and
(f)   ineffective role of the Special Projects Unit (SPU) that was to perform  day-to-day
coordination and monitoring functions of MCC.
LHLDC Component
21.   One of the Project development objectives successfully achieved is the restructuring of the
institutions responsible for the supply of urban housing into a single new agency. The ineffective LHC and
the LEHCO-OP were successfully replaced by LHLDC to function primarily as a residential land
development agency. The other main objective for the Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation
(LHLDC) was to implement suitable plot pricing policies, and set beneficiary eligibility and allocation criteria.
So far the cost recovery scheme has not yet proved successful, as the access to plots is limited to a minimal
number of households (due to the lack of access to mortgage financing despite the low cost of land and cross-
subsidization taking place in the scheme). There is a large stock of unsold serviced plots due to a slower than



- 6 -
expected selling, which in turn does not allow LHLDC to use the recovered monies to further invest and
become financially autonomous. All of the above entails little sustainability. The strengthening of the
institution is nevertheless real, and staffing retrenchment has taken place. It is also fair to say that the process
has been hampered by general infrastructure deterioration with little access to home financing for low-income
households. The strengthening needs to be further pursued in terms of computerized accounting, project
monitoring and marketing.
22.   The principal physical objectives of LHLDC to improve the supply of housing by (i) constructing
1,500 serviced residential plots at Ha Thetsane site, and (ii) implementing suitable plot pricing policies,
have been partially met. As regards (i), LHLDC successfully constructed 1,540 serviced plots against the
1,500 envisaged, out of which about 900 plots have been sold and fifty houses constructed. As regards (ii),
the objective was partially achieved (Appendix B). Moreover, at present a relatively large percentage of
service infrastructure is deteriorated due to inadequate maintenance by MCC.  In addition, the social
infrastructure (school, community center, clinic) has not been provided as envisaged mainly due to the
unavailability of financial resources.
23.    Main problems encountered by LHLDC are summarized below:
(a)    all low-income plots were sold versus only about 1 % of the high-income plots, which
illustrates a problem of inequitable plot distribution and incorrect targeting of the income-
level group;
(b)    inadequate pricing policy, with many "middle- and high-income" families buying two or
three low-income plots to build just one house, suggesting that the low-income plots' price
was too high for low-income earners.
(c)   the large inventory of unsold serviced plots in a "free land" culture, resulted in serious
financial problems for LHLDC, as the low volume of sale in turn does not allow LHLDC
to use recovered monies to further invest and become financially autonomous.
LSPP Component
24.    The objectives of this sub-component were to (i) carry out a program of tenure investigation, tenure
revalidation of Maseru South and incorporate Maseru South into the tax roll; (ii) undertake a revaluation
exercise of Maseru covering all areas on the tax roll; and (iii) carry out a program of tenure investigation
and valuation program for all the remaining peri-urban areas of Maseru and incorporate such areas into the
tax roll. Main achievements include Thamaes incorporation in the tax roll (while Maseru and Thetsane
were not), the partial completion of the Maseru valuation, and the first phase of Maseru South in "Ha Kieso
completed, while the rest of peri-urban areas was not completed.
25.   Although part of the objectives was accomplished successfully, tenure investigation and valuation
remain non-existent in most of the peri-urban areas, vehicles and equipment were in short supply, and
technical assistance (of which provision was made under the Project), were not fully realized. Slow
valuation process by LSPP in turn prevented MCC to improve its revenue base and further prevented to
improve the level of service it could have offered. Another key aspect of LSPP failure lies with the lack of
preparation of an urban development plan. Land tenure policy in urban and peri-urban areas needs revisiting
to achieve a sustainable path to urban development.



- 7-
26.   The reasons for LSPP's limited achievements may be found in: (i) lack of control over financial
resources; (ii) conflicting relations with MCC executives; (iii) power struggle within LSPP between the
Chief planner and the expatriate adviser; (iv) lack of field staff, planners, surveyors (because of inadequate
management by the chief land valuer, only two full time people were engaged in Maseru as against the ten
required); (v) improper procedures (survey had to be redone as data collected was incomplete and
outdated); (vi) lack of equipment and vehicles (for example LSPP had four vehicles under the Project, two
were non-functional, one was confiscated by MCC because of confusion of ownership, leaving only one for
survey etc.); and (vi) inadequate computerization facility.
LBFC Component
27.   The objective of this component was to make available long-term finance by providing 3,400
mortgage loans at Ha Thetsane and Maseru South, but no mortgage loan was made. Even prior to the recent
change in its status (merging with Lesotho Bank, a commercial bank), LBFC did not engage in a review of its
interest rates for mortgages, nor did it elaborate a program to increase collection of mortgage payments or
prepare financial projections, as was deemed necessary for an institution which was to become the primary
provider of housing finance. LBFC succeeded, however, in increasing its recovery rate from 50% in 1983 to
80% in 1993.
28.   By the time LHLDC completed the servicing of Ha Thestane area and offered plots for sale, the
demand for mortgage financing had declined considerably. This could perhaps be because the general
perception of prospective borrowers vis-a-vis Ha Thetsane site, was that the price of plots as well as the
construction costs were too high. The situation was exacerbated by the GOL's floating of treasury bills
which were then available to the man in street. This had the effect of enticing monies away from LBFC
and other banking institutions. LBFC started to institute more stringent screening procedures to weed out
the more marginal cases which resulted in giving out even lesser number of mortgages. LBFC could not
attract borrowers in spite of offering lower interest rates than what was commercially available.
29.   On April 1, 1993, when GOL decided to merge LBFC with LB, hopes for LBFC to achieve its
goals were further diminished, as the image LB has created for itself was not helping promote housing
loans for low-income groups. Although, LB retains the mortgage financing mandate of LBFC under the
same conditions of eligibility, at the present time overall housing loans account for only about 1 % of its
lending portfolio. Moreover, it is doubtful that it will engage in financing low-income housing without
government subsidization.
Technical Assistance Component
30.   The Project was to provide Technical Assistance and Training to strengthen Project agencies and
provide essential advisory support. Although most of the positions in MCC were not filled until late, all
department heads and their advisers were ultimately recruited. Under each department, however, not all
staff were adequately placed. Various officers of MCC as well as the elected council, were also sent for
training, both within the region as well as overseas. Two vehicles were also purchased as envisaged. At a
later stage when the Project went under "informal suspension" all TA activities were ceased.
31.   Although it has been impossible to get details for this component, it appears, from available data on
the use of technical assistance and an analysis of the current administrative and managerial capacity in the
implementing agencies, that very little has indeed been achieved. Furthermore, it is puzzling to see that
very little amounts of the proceeds of the IDA credit have been withdrawn for logistical support.
Moreover, no effort was made to address some of the implementation issues by using the credit to provide



- 8 -
for necessary equipment or technical assistance. One reason may have been the lack of information of
some implementing agencies like LSPP or DOH on the availability of resources under the MICARD
component of the Project.
D. Project Sustainability
32.   Since the Project, as a whole, did not achieve most of its development objectives, sustainability is
unlikely to take place. This is because necessary political and institutional commitment essential for
promoting sound cost recovery and sustained program development is not present. In particular, major
legislative and policy reforms with regard to the authority of local government to mobilize resources and
enforce tax collection, low-income groups' access to housing finance, and coordination of services delivery
mechanisms and agencies, which are essential to sustainable and harmonious urban development, are still to
be implemented. Moreover, frequent changes in leadership at the MCC level, and generally poor
institutional capacity in Implementing Agencies (in particular LSPP, LBFC, and DOH) has contributed to
lack of sustainability.
33.   Physical progress which was nevertheless achieved (serviced plots, infrastructure) could also be
lacking sustainability, if lack of maintenance by MCC keeps occurring, and if GOL does not design and
implement sustainable financing mechanisms to deal with high-cost plot prices.
E. Bank Performance
34.   On the whole, the Bank's performance is deemed satisfactory, although rigorous supervision of the
project implementation process could have resulted in more drastic restructuring of the Project when
performance became poor in all respects, and which later resulted in an early cancellation of the Project.
35.   Project Design. The Project was responsive to the needs of GOL to create a much needed layer of
Government which would respond to the needs of the community, and thus provide urban services in a
more efficient way. The Project was prepared in close coordination with GOL, and its focus adequately put
on institutional reforns. However, the Bank may have overestimated, at the appraisal stage, the achievements
of the First Urban Project in terms of creating implementation capacity in GOL and MCC. The pace at which
continuing policy reforms could be implemented and capacity building strengthened under this very project
did not materialize as expected.  The Project's implementation schedule was ambitious in light of
institutional weaknesses, and its completion in a timely manner was a real challenge for the Borrower.
36.   Project Implementation. During the implementation stage, close contact was maintained with the
Borrower. The Bank was responsive to the Borrower need for support to overcome critical institutional and
implementation blockages in providing continuous guidance. In particular, Bank's care in supervising the
project implementation process was demonstrated by the informal suspension of disbursements for the MCC
institutional development plan as soon as financial covenants were not complied with. However, during the
later implementation stage, when Project performance became poorer in all institutional respects and
implementation stalled, records indicate that supervision was on average limited to two supervision missions
per year (each with less than one week duration), and the Bank's supervision could have been increased to
provide more timely guidance as required by the rapidly deteriorating situation. Considering the complex
nature of the Project, the Bank could have not only increased the frequency of much-needed supervision,
but also carried out a comprehensive mid-term review, mobilized more problem-solving support, and given
consideration to more drastic restructuring. Although it is felt that the institutional blockages, the lack of
efficiency of the Borrower agencies, the lack of commitment and cooperation between agencies, and the
general institutional situation and constraints faced by the Borrower could not have been overcome. Agreed



- 9 -
time-bound action plans, which later proved inefficient, nevertheless allowed some physical achievements to
take place under the project. By early 1993, no action plan or restructuring was likely to bring about any
major change in implementation, due to the many constraints faced by the various implementing agencies
and the general lack of commitment of the Borrower to proceed with the Project, and the Bank could have
considered earlier cancellation of the Project. At that point, supervision became useless (no mission was
carried out), and the Bank should have considered closing the Project at an early stage without more
prolonged delays. The sequence of main events that led to cancellation of the credit in March 1994 is
provided in Appendix C.
F. Borrower Performance
37.    The Borrower performance can only be rated as unsatisfactory. During project preparation, the
Borrower performed satisfactorily and a high level of commitment was demonstrated by Government. Most
early procurement documents for civil works had been prepared, and the project was truly the result of a
cooperative effort between the Borrower and the Bank. However, it appears that the Borrower overestimated,
at the time of project preparation, its implementation capacity, and ability and commitment to build it under
the Project. At the time of Project preparation the Borrower may have failed to fully understand the
magnitude of the required policy and institutional changes, and, more than anything else, the effect that failure
in one area would have on all other aspects of the project. Although implementation was good, but soon
Central Government's lack of experience, continuous interference and control over municipal finance and
administration through such prerogatives as authorizing tax rates and recruitment, resulted in rapid
deterioration of institutional relationships with MCC, lack of ownership, and slow response from other
Implementing Agencies.  Sharp and rapid deterioration of the Borrower's performance and loss of its
momentum was aggravated by MCC's own lack of efficiency and capacity to properly carry out those
functions it had been endowed with. It appears that the Borrower may have overestimated the difficulty of
coordinating a project of this magnitude, and may have realized after effectiveness that the newly-created local
government (with elected officials from a different party) had its own perspective on Maseru development and
relations with Central Government.
38.    GOL failed to bring about legislative changes that were crucial for project implementation, and to
provide a clear framework for devolving responsibilities to local government. Prime examples of the
Government's lack of commitment are the fact that prolonged delays occurred in paying MCC the
subvention of one million Maloti and its contribution in lieu of rates for it's properties within the municipal
area, and in revising legislation, which would have helped MCC immensely in its efforts to effectively
prosecute tax defaulters.  Moreover, the Borrower failed to coordinate the numerous implementing
agencies, and to enforce actions to be carried out by each agency, which had negative cross impacts on the
ability of the others to perform. Furthermore, the Borrower did not adequately devolve responsibilities to
local government, and create the adequate institutional and financial framework within which to operate.
During implementation, project ownership was never truly achieved, as main stakeholders never took the
necessary steps to fully participate in project implementation. After 1993, the new Government's commitment
to local government affairs was hampered by MICARD's inability to design and support a new approach to
urban management, to coordinate implementation, and to improve implementation due to the general lack of
administrative capacity in implementing agencies.
G. Assessment of Outcome
39.   Although the Project was able to achieve parts of its physical objectives, the overall outcome is
unsatisfactory due to development objectives on the institutional side not being met and lack of
sustainability. The USRP unsuccessfully attempted to build both planning and implementation capacities,



- 10-
while rationalizing institutional responsibilities in areas that appeared critical to medium and long term
development in the sector. In particular, the objective of transforming MCC into an entity capable of
delivering services and reaching full financial self-sufficiency and accountability, was never truly achieved.
LBFC, now merged with LB, did not set a sustainable policy of providing housing loans to urban poor.
LHLDC is still not financially viable and its future is not clear. The financial objectives of the Project for
targeted populations (affordable plot prices for low income beneficiaries, and housing mortgage financing)
were not achieved, and those for MCC (full infrastructure cost recovery, property rate collection, and
settlement of public arrears) were only partially realized and with too many delays, largely as a result of a
non-conducive environment and limited Central Government support. Moreover, the housing policy prepared
by DOH was adopted but never put into action.
H. Future Operations
40.    The key objective for sustainable local government remains to implement a program of policy reforms
bringing about greater financial self-sufficiency and accountability of Local Government. A clear framework
is needed to address the most fundamental issues of housing and services finance, local taxation and local
government financial and fiscal sustainability. Furthermore this framework should provide some avenues for
rethinking the relationships and sharing of responsibilities between local and Central Government, involving
all concerned parties to achieve consensus and commitment, and pushing legislation amendments through the
proper channels of Government and Parliament. The present democratic government has recently restructured
the Ministry of Home Affairs by creating a Local Government administration responsible for urban policy and
decentralization and headed by a Principal Secretary, and has committed itself to amend legislation to
facilitate MCC ability to perform its critical function of rate collection (in particular in the prosecution of
rate defaulters). Moreover, various workshops are being organized to review Local Government models.
Restructuring is also likely to take place in MCC with the creation of a Department of Planning and
Development, responsible for engineering studies, urban planning, development control, and land
management. All of this provides a more receptive environment for Bank assistance.
41.   No operation in the urban sector is planned as part of the CAS. Given that the existing political
environment is quite different from what it was at the time the Project activities were initiated, that
administrative restructuring took place, and that continuity in the efforts made to strengthen Local
Govermnent is needed, the Bank, as part of its assistance to GOL, will remain involved in the sector. The
current strategy supports strengthening various agencies (and their policy environments) for the delivery of
infrastructure services, focusing on provision of infrastructure to (a) promote economic growth through the
private sector and (b) reduce poverty and facilitate access to basic and essential services. An additional thrust,
to address the key issues of poverty reduction and delivery of services to the populations, should be the
strengthening of the local government structures (further addressing local government financial and fiscal
issues in general, and providing some avenues for rethinking the relationships and sharing of responsibilities
between local and Central Governments), and the design and implementation of mechanisms for communities
to become more involved in the development and management of services.
I. Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
42.    The key lessons drawn for project implementation and institutional focus are that:
(a)    For complex urban operations, an integrated sector approach involving all stakeholders in a
common framework would be beneficial. In particular, a two-phase approach, actively
pursuing institutional and capacity building objectives with limited investments in the first
phase, and major investment activities (the content and extent of which would be dimensioned



- 11 -
after review of progress with the institutional and capacity-building components) mainly
concentrated in the second phase, could prove useful. Another way to deal with the inherent
complexity of the urban sector would be to initiate single simpler sector projects (housing,
infrastructure, water supply and sanitation), after a policy development project (engineering
credit) would have been implemented. However, it would be difficult to deal with the
emergency character of urban investments by postponing them to a much later date.
(b)    Where a key Project objective is the strengthening of institutions, expectations on their
capacity to undertake investment activities in the Project should be matched to
implementation capacity. Technical assistance should be carefully designed to match short-
term  implementation requirements and ensure transfer of know-how, and carefully
monitored through agreed criteria to measure success.
(c)    The involvement and commitment of all stakeholders from the preparation stage is a
necessary ingredient to success.  Restructuring efforts and agreed policy changes need to
be translated in an agenda of actions, addressing the questions of responsibilities, staffing,
and organization. A strong commitment to process these changes by the Ministry in
charge, through an incremental approach in collaboration with all stakeholders, appears the
only feasible way to bring about changes. Beneficiary assessments, consultations, and
resettlement plans should be designed early in project preparation.
(d)    The addition of local governments to the range of agencies through which public services
are delivered, inevitably raises areas of overlap, conflict and problems of co-ordination.
The idea that utility and trading services would augment the financial resources of local
governments is largely a misnomer. An urban management policy, an institutional
framework and the necessary communication channels and forums through which to
coordinate needs and resolve conflicts are, however essential. Present evidence suggests
that some institutional strengthening is required at Ministry and inter-Ministry level.
(e)    The desire for total financial self sufficiency at the current stage of MCC's development
would not be realistic, as it will always be subject to national economic and financial
considerations. Within the limits of total available resources, the objective should be to
seek a match between resources and responsibilities. The current resource base is too
narrow and a number of steps to augment sources of local revenue are required. Continued
Central Government support is likely to be required preferably in a form which rewards
local initiative and efficiency and secures minimum standards of service. Matching grants,
needs-based subventions and performance related assistance need to be devised vis a vis the
danger of overtaxing the population without the benefit of improved services.
(f)    The establishment and implementation of a housing policy, the sustainability of land
management procedures and the improvement of LSPP procedures and functioning, the
strengthening of financial institutions involved in mortgage financing (LBFC), and the
implementation of financially-accessible and sufficient serviced plots in the peri-urban areas
of Maseru (LHLDC) are key issues for developing an urban strategy. Major constraints
have been, and still are, cost recovery, realistic level of taxation, land tenure and taxation,
and population ability to pay for serviced plots in a difficult macroeconomic situation.
43.   Policy issues, that need to be focused on in priority, are detailed in Appendix D. Regulatory issues
to be addressed include revising the Rate Law, the Urban Act of 1983 in order to revert all powers of



- 12 -
appointments and dismissal in local governments, the Deeds Registry Act of 1967 to acquire land, the law
to legalize the Town Clerk's final accountability, and the MCC Act of 1983 and the Financial Regulation of
MCC, and creating a Maseru Municipal Court and a Rates Collection Court. Institutional issues concern
transparency in decision making, status of the Council vis-a-vis the authority of the Ministry of Home
Affairs, as well as the status of Town Clerk vis-a-vis the Mayor, clear responsibilities and coordinated
planning between infrastructure delivery parastatals and MCC, improved public perception of MCC, DOH
staffing, and clear devolving of responsibilities. Financial issues relate to decentralization of financing
capacity through levy of local rates, and GOL not defaulting on its financial commitments towards MCC.
Support to the Government should in priority concem MCC (municipal finance and accounting, and collection
perfomiance), and the Ministry of Home Affairs (providing a responsive interface between local governrent,
public utilities and Central Govermment, modifying the system of property tax collection, and retrenching
redundant staff to reduce non-productive establishmnent posts and improve efficiency).



PART H. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR.
(The Borrower did not provide any comments)



Table 1:  Summary of Assessmcnts
A.   Achievement of Obicctives           Substantial     Partial      Negligible       Not applicable
Macro policies                       L                [             L               m
Sector policies                       m               Li                           LI]
Financial objectives                   Ei              [                            Li
Institutional development              Ei             L                             Lii
Physical objectives                   3               Li                            Li
Poverty reduction                     L               Li           Li
Gender issues                        EG Li                        C1               L
Other social objectives               n              [m             m               m
Environmental objectives             Li                            Li              L
Public management                       i             Li            X]              L
Private sector development           Lii                                           LXII
B.    Proiect sustainability               Likely         Unlikely    Unccrtain
Ilighly
C.   Bank performance                    Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Dcficicnt
Identification                        L               1X3          L
Preparation assistance               L                X           [X:Li
Appraisal                            LLx                           Li
Supervision                          L                L           [
1 lighly
D.   Borrower performance                Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                          [=                            Li
Implementation                       L                Li
Covenant compliance                   3              Li
llip,hly                                       Highly
E.    Assessment of outcome              Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory UnsatisfactorEy
Li              Li    LX] Lx



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Year of
Credit Title                 Purpose              Approval         Status
1. Urban Development      To assist GOL to establish the  06/3/80    Implementation
Project (Cr. 1036-LSO)    requisite legislative and               completed,
institutional framework                   Project
centered on the planned                   Completion
Maseru City Council, upgrade              Report prepared
and construct community                   June 21, 1989.
facilities, improve health and
sanitation conditions, stimulate
employment in the informal
sector, encourage construction
methods, train manpower and
establish adequate routine
maintenance of infrastructure
throughout city of Maseru.
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned                Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)                not available                 09/12/86
Preparation                         not available                 05/22/87
Appraisal                            06/22/87                     06/15/87
Board Presentation                   02/19/88                     04/19/88
Signing                              05/26/88                     05/26/88
Effectiveness                        08/26/88                     04/03/89
Project Completion                   06/30/94                     06/31/94
Credit Closing                       12/31/94                    07131195a/
a/ Awaiting formal closing (after reconciliation of an outstanding Special Account).



Tahle 4:  Credit Dishursements: Ctimulative Estimated and Acttial
($Millions)
FY89     FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93  I FY94            FY95
Appraisal               3.10     5.20     9.30    13.40    16.40    19.40       20.40
Estimate
Actual                  .68      2.89     4.28     4.95     5.49     5.61       5.36'
Actual as %
of Estimate           21.93     55.58    46.02    36.94    33.48    28.92      26.27
Date of Final
Disbursement         12/01/94
*/ Due to funds recovered ($.25 Million) from Special Account-A (MCC).
**/ To LBFC for vehicles & equipments and consultants Icc.
Table 5: Pro.ject Costs
($Million)
Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Estimate
Item                    Local  Foreign  Total       Local Foreign  Total
1. MCC 5-Year Plan                       8.88     9.66     18.54      1.44    n/a      1.44
2. Housing Development & Finance         4.93      6.83     11.76    n/a*      n/a     n/a
3. Technical Assistance & Training       0.47      4.26     4.73     2.76      n/a     2.76
4. Physical Contingencies                0.48      0.72     1.20      n/a     n/a      n/a
5. Price Contingencies                   4.42      1.55     5.97      n/a     n/a      n/a
Total                                 19.18    23.02    42.20      4.2      n/a     4.2
*I not available



Tahle 6: Project Financing
($Million)
Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Estimate
Item                   Local  Foreign  Total      Local Foreign Total
1. IDA                                   9.0      11.4    20.4      n/a    5.36    5.36
2. Government                             2.2      1.8      4.0     n/a     n/a      n/a
3. MCC                                    2.9     2.2      5.1      n/a     n/a      n/a
4. LBFC                                   5.1     7.6      12.7     nla     n/a      n/a
Total                                 19.2    23.0      42.2     n/a    5.36    5.36
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
At the time of appraisal, rate ot return calculations were carried out for Ha Thetsane site as
well as Maseru South area. It was expected that houses will be constructed/upgraded at these sites
yielding benefits equivalent to the rental values. It was also expected that some of the households will
build one extra room on their property to rent oit for additional income.
However, ex-post rates of return were not calculated hecause so far at Thesane site only about
3 % of the houses have been constructed (some of which are yet to fully complete), while at Maseru
South, no upgrading was carried out.



Table 8: Status of Lcgal Covenants
Lcsotho Urban Scctor Rcoricntation Project
Covenant             Covenant                  Fullfillment
Section   Type               Description                  Date        Status          Comments
3.04       M     Establish a Project Management     September 30, 1988    C    Not in compliance anymore
Team, and maintain it until
completion of the Project.
3.05        T    Adopt a National Urban I lousing   December 31, 1988   NC   Housing ploicy developed but
Policy and Implementation Plan.                             not yet adopted
3.06 (a)    T    Declare the Project areas to be    Scptember 30, 1988    C    Complied with
Selected Develepment Areas;
and
Prepare a standard format for leases,   September 30, 1988    C    Complied with
for sale of plots at Thetsane.
3.08              Furnish to the Association for its  September 30, 1988    C    Complied with. Procedures
review and comments simplified                              for issue of titles to
procedures for the transfer of title                        beneficiaries streamlined
in Thetsane, through MCC and
LHLDC, to the Project beneficiaries.
3.09        T    Amend the Land Act of 1979, to be  December 31, 1988   CD   Land Act amended March 10,
recognized as a primary form of                             1992
title under the Act.
3.10 (a)    T    Through LSPP:
carry out a program of tenure     FY92                CD   Thamaes incorporated in roll;
investigation, tenure revalidation of                       Maseru and Thetsane under
Maseru South and incorporate Maseru                         way
into the tax roll, including Thamaes and
Maseru South, for implementation
in the Borrower's FY92.;
3.10(b)           undertake a revaluation of Maseru  F92                 C    Complied with. Revaluation
covering all areas on the tax roll,                         introduced in April 1992
including Thamaes and Maseru South
for implementation in the Borrower's
FY92
3.10(c)          carry out a program of tenure      June 30, 1993       CD   First phase - Maseru South
investigation, tenure validation and                        in Ha Kieso complete.
valuation program for all the                               Next phase is ongoing
remaining periurban areas of Maseru
and incorporate such areas into
the tax roll.
4.01        F    Maintain records and accounts      Yearly              CD   Audited consolidated Project
adequate to reflect Project                                 accounts for FY89/90 through
expenditures, make such records                             FY91/92 have been furnished
available to MCC for the purposes                           to IDA
of maintaining consolidated Project
accounts, have the records and
accounts audited and furnish the
audit report to IDA not later than
nine months after the end of each year.



Tablc 8: Status of Lcgal Covenants
Lcsotho Urban Sector Rcoricntation Projcct
Covenant             Covenant                 Fulifiliment
Section   Type              Description                  Date         Status         Comments
4.02             For all expenditures with respcct to
which withdrawls from the Credit
Account were made on the basis
of expenditures;
4.02 (a)    F    maintain records and accounts      Yearly              CD   Complied with
reflecting such expenditures, and
4.02 (b)    F    have the records and accounts      Yearly              CD   Special Accounts audited
audited; and furnish the audited                           through FY92
reports to IDA not later than nine
months after the end of each year.
4.03 (a)    E    Provide a subvention of one million  FY88/89 through  CD   Complied with
Maloti to MCC.                    FY92/93
4.03 (b)    E    Carry out a review to determine the    June 30, 1989  NC   Not complied with
steps leading to the phasing out of
the subvention by the end of FY92/93.
4.03 (c)    E    Make a contribution of about six   Yearly              CD   Complied with
thousands Maloti to MCC in lieu of
rates for the Borrower's properties
within the municipal area and
thereafter increase such contribution
annually by an amount based on
valuation and tax increases in the area.
4.04        E    Transfer the balance of the property    September 30, 1988    C    Complied with
rates fund to MCC to provide MCC
adequate funds for working capital,
capital investments and to cover
any operating deficits.
4.05 (a)    E    Complete the transfer of assets and  September 30, 1988    C    Complied with
liabilities of LHC and LEIICO-OP
to LHLDC.
4.05 (b)    E    Ensure that LHLDC is adequately                        C    Complied with
capitalized to enable it to operate
on a sound financial basis.
Key for Covenants
F - Financial
M - Management
P - Policy
T - Technical



Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US$'000)
Planned          Revised           Actual
Stage or
Project Cycle        Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$
Through Appraisal             -                                  48.6
Appraisal-Board                                                   -
Board-Effectiveness                                              3.4
Supervision                   89.1    94.1   112.2    85.6    52.5   36.3
Completion                     -       -        -                12.0   15.0
TOTAL                         89.1    94.1   112.3      85.6    116.5   51.3



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating-
Stage of                 Number       Days    Specialized       Implemen-   Develop-        Prob
Project       Month/        of        in       staff skills      tation        ment         lems
Cycle         Year       persons      field    represented       status       impact
Through        08/86        3           4      Urban Planner
Appraisal                                      Fin. Analyst
01/87        5          9       Urban Planner,
Financial
Analyst, Rest
not known
Appraisal      06/87        5          17      Urban Planner,
through                                        Financial
Board                                          Analyst,
approval
Board          08/88         1       n/a **    Urban Planner
approval
through
Effective-
ness
10/88        2         17         not known          n/a           n/a       none
Supervision    02/90        3          7       Urban Planner,        2             2        E,F,
Sanitary. Eng.,                              H,L,
Economist
07/90        1          4       Urban Planner        n/a           n/a        n/a
08/91        2          4       Urban Planner,
Financial            n/a           n/a        n/a
Analyst
11/91        1         16      Sanitary Eng.         3              3       A,E,
F,H
07/92        1          9      Sanitary Eng.          3             3        A,E,
F
11/92       3           5      Urban Planner,        3              3
Financial
Analyst,                                     F,P,
Sanitary Eng.                                E
02/94        5          9       Urban Planner,        3             3        A,E,
Engineer,                                    F,L,
Municipal Eng.                               P
Financial
Analyst, Legal                             I
Completion     04/95        1          19      Financial
I__ __ __ __   __________   I_________  A nalyst                              I
*/ Key to Types of Problems: A=Audit reports delays; E=Engineering problems (unsound road design work
etc.); F=Financial problems (rate collection, lack of govt. contributions); H =Human Resource Management
(lack of trained staff); L=Legislative (absence of protective laws).
*  not available






APPENDIX A
MCC component
The following comprises the MCC component:
(a)    a five-year plan included establishment of MCC by transforming it from the former Town Office to a
fully constituted Local Authority capable of delivering the services and performing the functions
intended under the Urban Government Act and reaching full financial self-sufficiency and
accountability;
(b)    upgrading of about 336 km of roads under the new jurisdiction of MCC;
(c)    providing and/or upgrading of public amenities including parks, landscaping, and public toilets;
(d)    upgrading of 3,000 plots at a major peri-urban area (Maseru South); and
(e)    providing of technical assistance.
MCC was not able to achieve any accomplishments vis-a-vis its physical investment objectives. This was due to
factors beyond its control as well as inadequate staffing and poor management of the Project.
Records indicate that within the first year of the Project, substantial progress was made in preparatory work for the
acquisition of several items such as computer equipment, machinery and office building. Detailed designs of roads
and tender documents were also prepared; road reserves were staked and much of the land required for the roads was
also negotiated with property owners.
By this time (April 1990), however, MCC's inability to effectively collect rates and its failure to pursue rates
defaulters through the inefficient court systems had caused great concern to the Bank as this was seriously hampering
Project execution. The Bank thus strongly recommended MCC to focus all its efforts to grappling with its rate
recovery system. This, in turn, may have caused MCC to extend only diluted effort in achieving its other activities.
Some of the other main reasons why MCC could not successfully obtain all its objectives could be summarized as
follows:
(a)    MCC was established without the consensus of the general public or any other independent
institution such as the 'influential chieftains', thus making it difficult to get any cooperation from the
tax payers and constituents;
(b)     Problems outside the jurisdiction of MCC such as regulatory limitations concerning:  (i) land
administrative issues (mainly removal of squatters); and (ii) prosecution of defaulters who
persistently manipulated the system to their advantage;
(c)     Inadequate financial resources because of: (i) prolonged delays in transference of GOL's financial
commitments (subvention and contribution in lieu of rates); (ii) continuous default by major
ratepayers (LNDC); and (iii) alleged mismanagement of financial resources (forging signatures of
checks, diverting official funds to private accounts etc.). Documents reflecting such allegations are
available in files;



(d)    Weak Collection Management System. When coupled with the complex and over-extended court
system, the lack of an effective collection management system undermines the overall performance.
At present it is virtually impossible to get an up to date and useful reading of the overall status of
collections, status of court orders, or status of follow-up on court orders. This should be considered
essential if there is to be an effective collection system particularly in the context of the
overburdened courts.
(e)    Inadequate .Human Resource Management. Some of the major obstacles were: (i) lack of experience
related to Local Govermment procedures; (ii) lack of qualified staff due to low emolument level and
brain drain; (iii) widespread nepotism by MCC officials; (iv) non-congenial relationship between
expatriate advisers and MCC management; (v) endless confrontations between MCC management
and the elected municipal counselors; and (vi) non-transparency of roles of Mayor versus Town
Clerk;
(f)    Lack of precursory cadastral work by LSPP. Since LSPP could not successfully bring all the
properties in its valuation roll that come under MCC's jurisdiction, MCC in turn could not collect
property rates; and
(g)    Ineffective role of the Special Projects Unit (SPU) that was to perform day-to-day coordination and
monitoring functions of MCC. Although it was a good idea to have an SPU, this unit was never
fully integrated in the mainstream activities of MCC due to the lack of authority vis-a-vis the Town
Clerk.



APPENDIX B
LHLDC Component
In 1991-92 LHLDC handed over the Ha Thetsane Site to MCC for upkeep and rates collection after, providing the
following on-site infrastructure services:
(a)    Stormwater Drainage. Open trapezoidal side drains along distributor and general access roads were
completed successfully but almost all are in dire condition at present as MCC is not able to provide
proper maintenance. During the mission's field visit it was observed that almost all the drains had
been either silted and/or eroded.
(b)    Streetlighting. All electric poles have been erected but no electricity is provided as yet. Power will
not be provided until MCC clears its outstanding debt to Lesotho Electricity Corporation (LEC).
The only problem is that LHLDC is offering plots for sale with a promise that all the services,
including electricity are included in the price, but in reality this is not the case. This in turn has
caused credibility problems for LHLDC.
(c)    Electricity Supply. The LEC is supplying electricity to individual homes but is charging high
connection fee (1422 Rands per connection, (approx. US$475). LHLDC is at present negotiating for
a more favorable price.
(d)    Water Supply. (a) out of the 180 middle-income plots sold, 15 water meters have been installed
where construction has either started or completed; (b) out of 600 high-income plots provision for
only three meters have been accounted for; and (c) no meters are installed for any of the 740 low
income plots, instead standpipes are used.
(e)    Sewerage Sanitation. All mid and high-income plots, about 800, have been sewered.
(f)    Community Facility
(i)    Primary school. Because the plot sales did not go as well as anticipated, no primary school
has as yet been built. LHLDC is negotiating with the Ministry of Education to buy the site
that was allocated for the school.
(ii)    Clinic. Again due to low volume of sales of plots, no clinic was built nor site allocated.
LHLDC contends there is one clinic nearby.
(iii)    Community Center. No Community center was either built nor site allocated because of
low volume of sales.



APPENDIX C
Main Events Leading to Project Cancellation
The following is a sequence of main events that led to cancellation of the credit in March 1994:
(a)    July 15, 1990 - just one year after effectiveness, IDA showed serious concerns regarding MCC's performance
with rate recovery and advised to adhere to the deadline of December 15, 1990 for the achievement of
property rates collection targets. Furthermore, there were strong concerns in relation to the hiring of
qualified financial staff and computerization of a rates management system.
(b)    MCC made no effort to comply with the agreed rates collection targets.
(c)    Oct 24, 1990 - IDA alerted the Minister of Finance (MOF) that in the event these targets were not met IDA
would consider a possible suspension of disbursements.
(d)    MCC made no significant effort to comply with the agreement.
(e)    April 16, 1991 - IDA alerted MOF for the second time asking for progress by April 30, 1991 and informally
suspended disbursements for the MCC component.
(f)    IDA also showed its discontent with the sporadic GOL's financial obligation towards MCC, as the city was
unable to adequately finance its basic service functions.
(g)    MCC took no serious action and lagged behind in computerization of the rate collection program and the
hiring of qualified staff.
(h)    August 20, 1991 - GOL's efforts fell well short of the agreed program. IDA sent a third letter to MOF
advising that if further progress was not achieved a "formal" suspension of all Project disbursements would
be initiated.
(i)    GOL brought its financial commitments to MCC up to date, but MCC continued to disregard its own
obligations vis-a-vis hiring of qualified financial staff and computerization of rate management system.
(j)    Nov. 15, 1991 - IDA sent still another letter to the Minister of Interior reiterating the above concerns.
(k)    Dec. 22, 1992 - A comprehensive Action Plan was set out by the Bank that outlined specific actions to be
performed, against definite dates in the absence of which a formal suspension was to be triggered. Most of
these actions were to be completed by September, 1993. The Action Plan included filling important vacant
posts; expenditure control; property tax collection; training; agreement on arrears (LNDC); and course of
action against tax defaulters.
(1)    March 4, 1993 - The Bank evaluated the progress made so far and found major issues still outstanding such as
finalization of the amendment of the Valuation and Rating Act; recruitment of a financial advisor and a
chartered accountant; submission of MCC audited accounts and statements of expenditures; and meeting of
quarterly rate collection targets.
(m)    April 10, 1993 - The Bank again evaluated the progress and found less than satisfactory achievements.
(n)    Feb. 18, 1994 - A Bank mission, with a new Task Manager, went to Maseru to examine status and to define
an appropriate solution to resume disbursements. After analyzing the situation thoroughly, the mission
concluded that the Project's performance had not improved, and that no new action plan could redress the
situation as no commitment existed its success, more preparatory work was required. The mission agreed
with GOL that the best course of action was the cancellation of all the amounts not yet withdrawn.
I



(o)    March 11, 1994 - The Bank received a letter from Mr. S. Baholo, Minister of Finance, canceling the
undisbursed amount of $17.2 million by March 31, 1994. All outstanding Special Accounts have been
reconciled by June 15, 1995, and the Bank is now formally closing the Project.



APPENDIX D
Key Policy Issues in the Lesotho Urban Sector
Regulatory Issues
(a)    Government should revise Rate Law under the Land Act of 1979 to provide for procedures similar to
those utilized to follow up on income tax and sales tax defaulters.
(b)    The Urban Act of 1983 should be reviewed in order to revert all powers of appointments and
dismissal in local governments, back to the elected Council. (In 1991, by Order No. 91, all such
powers were taken away from the Council and transferred to the minister of Home Affairs).
(c)    The Deeds Registry Act of 1967 should be reviewed as soon as possible as it has no provision for
married women to acquire land without written consent of their husbands. If not corrected this
situation may have serious repercussions.
(d)    MCC Act of 1983 and the Financial Regulation of MCC talks very loosely about the signatories on
MCC's financial instruments. This has caused problems in the past and should therefore be
rectified.
(e)    For the purpose of settling small disputes, the city of Maseru has no Municipal Court. Presence of
such courts can expedite prosecution of small misdemeanors (such as trash can burning, defacing city
property etc.) without prolonged delays and also freeing time of over burden civil courts.
(f)    For the purpose of enhancing the performance effectiveness of the Council, a Rates Collection Court
should be formed. This does not necessarily imply a building with several magistrates or judges
attending to rate defaulters but could mean a qualified lawyer given preference by Court whenever
he/she represents the Council. This set up should assist in improving the rates collection situation.
(g)    The law should be reviewed to legalize the Town Clerk's final accountability not only as Chief
Executive of the Council, but also as the Chief Accounting Officer.
Institutional Issues
(a)    There should be transparency in decision making policy. The law must eliminate all ambiguities as
to the status of the Council vis-a-vis the authority of the Ministry of Home Affairs, as well as the
status of Town Clerk vis-a-vis the Mayor.
(b)    Because of lack of expertise in MCC, all the departments including the Town Clerk's office require
TA, until such time when MCC staff is adequately trained and performant.
(c)    Clear responsibilities and coordinated planning should be etched out between infrastructure delivery
parastatals and MCC. For instance, at present, road repairs are carried out, both, by the Department
of Works as well as MCC. Relations with LEC, Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA), and
Lesotho Telecommunication Corporation in planning and prioritizing investments, need to be
enhanced.
(d)    The town clerk of MCC should inform/notify elected counselors of an "administrative decision" such
as sending staff for training or seminars. The administrative matters should not be debated, unless
pertaining to legislative issues (previously this has seriously hampered MCC activities).



(e)    To improve skeptical public perception of MCC, beneficiary assessment and community consultation
should be conducted on a regular basis.
(f)    DOH should be adequately staffed, strengthened and engaged in improving Housing Policy and its
implementation not just in Maseru but through out the country.
(g)    Government's willingness to decentralize requires clear devolving of responsibilities and financing
capacity through levy of local rates.
Financial Issues
(a)    According to the recently promulgated Local Government Act, all ten districts of the country will
hold their own local governments. The annual national budget should therefore have provision to
implement such activity.
(b)    GOL should avoid defaulting on its financial commitments towards MCC. The mission learned
during the wrap-up meeting that GOL has not allocated funds for MCC for the coming year in lieu
of property rates. This may cause difficulty in sustaining the little improved capacity MCC has
achieved so far.



APPENDIX E
THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1898-LSO)
AIDE MEMOIRE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
1.    Introduction. A World Bank mission consisting of Richard James (Financial Analyst) visited
Lesotho from April 17 to May 4, 1995, to evaluate the results achieved by the Urban Sector Reorientation
Project as a basis for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR); to provide advice
and support to the government's effort to make its own contribution to the ICR; and to collect additional
statistical data for the preparation of the ICR. This Aide-memoire is a record of: the main findings of
the mission; understanding reached with the government and the implementation agencies on the main
project achievements; and recommendations to address some important issues identified during the field
visits.
2.    This Aide-memoire was discussed at a wrap-up meeting chaired by Mr. T. Ncholu, Deputy
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Planning & Economic Development, and Ms. Vicky Qhobosheane, of
the same ministry, on May 4, 1995.
3.    The mission takes this opportunity to thank the government of Lesotho (GOL) for the cooperation
extended to it by officials of the Maseru City Council (MCC), Lesotho Housing and Land Development
Corporation (LHLDC), Department of Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning (LSPP), and Lesotho Bank
(LB). A list of persons met is appended as Annex 1.
4.    ICR Preparation. During the mission, the objectives of the newly introduced ICR requirements
were explained to a team designated by the GOL to undertake the task of organizing and overseeing the
preparation of the ICR. The mission encouraged the team to focus on: (a) assessment of project
objectives, design, implementation and operation experiences; and (b) evaluation of the government's and
the Bank's performance during the implementation phase of the project with the objective of drawing
appropriate lessons from the implementation and operation experiences. The mission also highlighted the
importance of evaluating the degree of "project ownership" and the lessons to be learned from such an
experience.
5.    Data Sources. This Aide-Memoire is based on: material in the project files; field visits to the
two project sites namely Ha Thetsane and Maseru South; and one-on-one and group discussions with
officials of implementing agencies. Discussions were also held with the present as well as three former
Town Clerks and several Department Heads of MCC who were actively involved in project
implementation. Several Municipal Counselors including two former Mayors were also interviewed.
6.     Work Plan. The GOL's contribution to the ICR is expected to be sent to IDA by May 31, 1995.
The draft ICR, including GOL's contribution, will be sent to GOL for comments by June 15, 1995. The
final ICR is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.



7.    Project Evaluation. The Urban Sector-Reorientation Project was the second credit the Bank had
extended in support of the GOL's efforts to introduce local government policy reform in Lesotho. The
Credit was approved by the Board on April 19, 1988 and declared effective, after an extension, on April
3, 1989. IDA received a formal request for the cancellation of an undisbursed amount of $17.2 million
by Mr. Baholo, the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning, on March 11, 1994. But because
LHLDC has so far failed to reconcile its outstanding Special Account the Bank is yet to formally close
the Project. The original closing date of the Project was December 31, 1994.
8.    Project Ohjectives. The Project aimed to: (i) support the development of decentralized Local
urban management by making the MCC fully operational; (ii) restructure the institutions responsible for
the supply of housing into a single new agency called LHLDC; (iii) increase the availability of long-term
finance to a broad range of income groups for plot purchase and house development through LBFC; (iv)
improve the functioning of urban land markets and introduce truer economic land pricing through LSPP
and MCC; and (v) promote sound cost recovery policies and practices.
9.     Project Components. The Project had three major components: (a) Five-Year Plan of MCC,
providing for its establishment costs, and its recurrent and investment program, including upgrading of
the Maseru South area; (b) Housing Development and Finance, including development of a site and
services scheme under which physical objectives were to be carried out by LHLDC, and provision of
housing finance for plot purchase and house construction at Ha Thetsane site, as well as provision of
housing finance for home improvement or new house construction at the Maseru South upgrading area
by LBFC; and (c) Technical Assistance and Training to strengthen Project agencies, through essential
advisory support.
Assessment of Outcome.
A.    General.
10.   The objectives of the project were not fully achieved, and the outcome may be stated as less than
satisfactory. However, one should not underestimate the relative complexity of a project such as this
which had ambitious institutional objectives of introducing an urban local government that attempted to
change the housing and service delivery framework in a country which had no such precedence. At the
time of project effectiveness, the independent local government in Maseru had just been established under
a non-elected military regime that had no experience nor political will in providing a supportive role to
bolster such a fledgling tier of government.
11.   The Project attempted to take a bold initiative to rationalize and sustain an investment in an
environment where the implementing procedures in the country were not yet fully streamlined and where
land management policies were not in place. Situation exacerbated when concept of property rate became
difficult to comprehend by general public, especially where land has traditionally been freely granted
through the chieftainship system. People were simply not in a rate paying culture.
12.   It is important to realize that the achievement of a sound policy reform in the urban sector should
be made with a long-term agenda. An investment program alone is not a sufficient condition to bring
about the required legislative and institutional changes however important they may be for the desirable
sectoral impacts. Policy improvements require more than political will alone. They need both Bank's
and Borrower's constant follow-up and adequate resource allocation. In this case, there was neither a
ii



strong political will, nor adequate support from the Borrower. Under the circumstances, the Bank too
could have added closer supervision missions. In short, when a key Project objective is the strengthening
of institutions, expectations on their capacity to simultaneously undertake execution of investment
activities in the Project should be closely examined.
B.    Realization or Component-Specific Objectives:
I.     MCC Component Description
13.   (a) a five-year Plan included establishment of MCC by transforming it from the former Town
Office to a fully constituted Local Authority capable of delivering the services and performing the
functions intended under the Urban Government Act and reaching full financial self-sufficiency and
accountability; (b) upgrading of about 336 km of roads under the new jurisdiction of MCC; (c) providing
and/or upgrading of public amenities including parks, landscaping, and public toilets; (d) upgrading of
3,000 plots at a major peri-urban area (Maseru South); and (e) providing of technical assistance.
14.    Records indicate that within the first year of the Project, substantial progress was made in
preparatory work for the acquisition of several items such as computer equipment, machinery and office
building. Detailed designs of roads and tender documents were also prepared; road reserves were staked
and much of the land required for the roads was also negotiated with property owners. However, MCC
was not able to achieve any remarkable accomplishments vis-a-vis its physical investment objectives.
This was mainly due to its inadequate staffing and poor management of the project.
15.    Some of the other main reasons why MCC could not successfully achieve its objects are
summarized as follows:
(1) MCC was established without the consensus of the general public or any other independent
institution such as the 'influential chieftains', thus making it difficult to get any cooperation from
the tax payers and constituencies;
(2) Problems outside the jurisdiction of MCC such as (a) inadequate regulatory framework (absence
of protective legislation which otherwise would have helped the Council to sequester the property
from rate defaulters); (b) inadequate land administration, (mainly removal of squatters); and (c)
prosecution of defaulters who persistently manipulated the system to their advantage.  For
example, Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC), was MCC's single largest
ratepayer which resisted payment of its industrial rates for several years;
(3) Deficient financial resources because of: (i) untimely transfer of GOL's financial commitments
(subvention and contribution in lieu of rates); (ii) continuous default by major taxpayers (LNDC);
and (iii) mismanagement of financial resources;
(4) Inadequate Human Resource Management: (i) Lack of experience related to local government
procedures; (ii) Lack of qualified staff due to (a) low emolument level, and (b) brain drain; (iii)
widespread nepotism by MCC officials; (iv) non-congenial relationship between expatriate
advisers and MCC management; (v) endless confrontations between MCC management and the
elected municipal counselors; and (vi) non-transparency of roles of mayor versus Town Clerk;
(5) Lack of precursory cadastral work by LSPP;
iii



(6) Ineffective role of Special Projects Unit (SPU) that was to perform day-to-day coordination and
monitoring functions of MCC. SPU was never fully integrated in the mainstream activities of
MCC due to the lack of authority vis-a-vis the Town Clerk.
II. LHLDC Component
16.   The principal objective of LHLDC was to improve the supply of housing by constructing 1,500
serviced residential plots at Ha Thetsane site and implement suitable plot pricing policies. LHLDC was
able to substantially meet (in relative terms) its development objectives.
17.   In 1991-92 LHLDC handed over the Ha Thetsane site to MCC for upkeep and rates collection
after providing (i) stormwater drainage; (ii) streetlighting (only poles - power to be provided after MCC
clear its outstanding debt to Lesotho Electricity Corporation); (iii) electricity supply to about 3% of
homes; and (iv) water meters to less than twenty houses versus 1540 serviced plots.
18.    At present a relatively large percentage of service infrastructure has been deteriorated due to
inadequate maintenance by MCC. In addition, the social infrastructure (school, community center, clinic)
has not been provided as envisaged mainly due to the unavailability of financial resources. As envisaged,
no loan was extended by LBFC to build houses at Ha Thetsane site. The forty six houses that are built
at the site were all financed by individual owners.
19.    Mission's analysis of serviced versus sold plots led to the following conclusion:
Plot Type (Size)     Serviced    Sold     Built    Unmarketable*
Low Income (273m2)        740        680      35             60
Mid Income (405m2)        200        180       8             20
High Income (1000m2)      600         5        3             60
*/ Due to soil erosion and/or flooding
(i) Inequitable distribution of _lots: There are 600 "high-income" plots in an area where the
majority of the population is low or middle income earners. The fact that practically all the low-
income plots were sold while only about 1 % of the high-income plots was sold shows a problem
of an inequitable plot distribution and targeting of the correct income-level group.
(ii) Inadequate pricing policy: For low-income earners, 740 plots were allocated. The Mission
observed that "middle-income" earners were buying two or three low-income plots to build just
one house. This suggests that the low-income plots' price was too high for low-income earners.
(iii) Cost Recovery: LHLDC presents serious financial problem. There is a large inventory of unsold
serviced plots as shown above due perhaps to the perception among plot buyers that the plot sizes
are too small for the amount charged. The low volume of sale in turn does not allow LHLDC
to use recovered monies to further invest and become financially autonomous.
iv



III. LBFC Component.
20.    The objective of this component was to make available long-term finance by providing 3,400
mortgage loans, 1,500 at Thetsane and 1,900 at Maseru South. None was ever achieved.
21.    By the time LHLDC completed the servicing of Thestane area and offered plots for sale, LBFC
had merged with Lesotho Bank (LB) (April 1, 1993). Unfortunately, the mission could only meet with
Mr. Monyane, the former LBFC Managing Director, (now M.D. LB). After exchanging views with Mr.
Monyane, and other LB personnel, and reviewing project files, the mission concluded that LBFC: (a) had
inadequate financial policy; (b) had very weak accounts receivable program (in 1991, for instance, it
collected less than 30% of its receivables); (c) was constantly cash strapped; and (d) could not attract
borrowers due to high construction costs, in spite of having lower interest rates than what was
commercially available. The situation was exacerbated by the GOL's floating of Treasury Bills which
were then available to the man in street. This had the effect of enticing monies away from LBFC (and
other banking institutions). LBFC started to institute more stringent screening procedures to weed out
the more marginal cases which resulted in giving out even lesser number of mortgages. LBFC could not
attract borrowers in spite of offering lower interest rates than what was commercially available.
22.    Although LB has retained the mortgage financing mandate of LBFC under the same conditions
of eligibility, at present, overall housing loans accounts for only 1% of its lending portfolio. This may
be because of the image that LB has created for itself which is not actually helping promote housing loans
for low-income groups.
IV. LSPP Component
23.   The objectives of this sub-component were to (i) carry out a program of tenure investigation,
tenure revalidation of Maseru South and incorporate Maseru South into the tax roll; (ii) undertake a
revaluation exercise of Maseru covering all areas on the tax roll; and (iii) carry out a program of tenure
investigation and valuation program for all the remaining peri-urban areas of Maseru and incorporate such
areas into the tax roll.
24.   (i) Thamaes was successfully incorporated in the tax roll, while Maseru and Thetsane were
partially done; (ii) Valuation of Maseru was partially completed; (iii) The first phase - Maseru South in
"Ha Kieso", was successfully completed, while the rest of peri-urban areas was not completed.
25.    Although part of the objectives was accomplished successfully there is yet a lot that was not
achieved. For example, Maseru South has not been completely brought under the valuation roll (hence
MCC's inability to collect rates), and tenure investigation and valuation remain non-existent in most of
the peri-urban areas.
26.    The reasons for this are: (i) no control over financial resources; (ii) conflicting relations with
MCC executives; (iii) power struggle within LSPP between the Chief planner and expatriate adviser; (iv)
lack of personnel (field staff, planners, surveyors etc. Because of inadequate management by the chief
land valuer only two full time people were engaged in Maseru as against the ten required. The survey
was to be redone as data collected were incomplete and outdated); (v) lack of equipment and vehicles:
LSPP had four vehicles under the project. Two are broken down and therefore, non functional, one was
confiscated by MCC because of confusion of ownership, leaving only one for survey etc; and (vii)
inadequate computerization facility;
v



V. Department of Housing (DOH) Component
27.   The objectives of this sub-component was to develop, monitor and evaluate appropriate housing
policies and programs. Objectives were only partially achieved. Although DOH did prepare a National
Urban Housing Policy and Implementation Plan, the GOL is yet to formally adopt its proposals. The
urban planning and policy making responsibilities have now been transferred to MCC, along with the
related manpower from DOH, and the implementation responsibilities to LHLDC. This has resulted in
a Department with very limited activities. At present it is virtually an empty shell with no specific role
to play. The mission made several attempts to contact the staff of DOH to discuss these issues, but was
unsuccessful. The M.D and other high level personnel were out of the country.
VI. Technical Assistance Component
28.   The project was to provide Technical Assistance and Training to strengthen project agencies and
provide essential advisory support. Although most of the positions in MCC were not filled until late, all
department heads and their advisors were ultimately recruited. Under each department, however, not all
staff were adequately placed. Various officers of MCC as well as the elected council, were also sent for
training, both within the region as well as overseas. Two vehicles were also purchased as envisaged.
At a later stage when the project went under "informal suspension" all TA activities were seized.
29.   The mission was unable to get details for this component and awaits response from all related
implementing agencies. However, from available data, it appears that the objectives were only partially
achieved.
General
VII. Interdependencies of Implementing Agencies
30.   This project involved multiple implementing agencies including MCC, LHLDC, DOH, LSPP,
LB, and the now defunct LBFC.  Most of these agencies were interdependent.  This multiple
interdependency among agencies posed, in many instances, restrictions for a smooth implementation of
activities, as the poor performance of one entity affected the performance of the others. For example:
(i) MCC's performance was contingent upon LSPP's work of survey and land valuation. LSPP is yet
to successfully bring all the properties in its valuation roll that come under MCC's jurisdiction. Failure
to carry out this major activity contributed to MCC not being able to collect property rates; (ii) LHLDC's
function of selling plots at Ha Thetsane was dependent on how successful LBFC was in providing
mortgage loans to the borrowers. There is no record that LBFC provided loans to Thetsane residents.
Thus non-availability of mortgages through LBFC hampered the overall progress of LHLDC; and (iii)
Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) was MCC's single largest ratepayer and it resisted
payment of its industrial rates. Because of the magnitude of the outstanding debt, (over three million
Maloti in 1990) MCC could not effectively carry out its own financial obligations towards its debtors.
It was only in 1991, after the Bank's repeated warnings to MCC to resolve the issue, that LNDC formally
committed itself to paying its debt, but it was not until 1993 that LNDC actually made payments.
VIII. Bank's Performance
31.   Project Design. The project was responsive to the needs of the Lesotho government to create a
much needed layer of government which would respond to the needs of the community and thus provide
vi



urban services in a more efficient way. However, project results show that during project design the
institutional capacity of the government may have been overestimated. The objectives and scope of the
project were perhaps ambitious, given that government's implementation capacity was weak and it had
to be built up by this very project. Moreover, the number of supervision missions was too limited, more
frequent supervision could have certainly proved beneficial.
32.    Project Implementation. During the course of the project, IDA maintained contact with the
Borrower and provided guidance, but project results kept deteriorating due to the lack of a strong political
will. The following is a sequence of main events that led to project cancellation in March 1994:
July 15, 1990 - just one year after effectiveness, IDA showed serious concerns regarding MCC's
performance with rate recovery and advised to adhere to the deadline of December 15, 1990 for the
achievement of property rates collection targets. Furthermore, there were strong concerns in relation
to the hiring of qualified financial staff and computerization of a rates management system.
MCC made no effort to comply with the agreed rates collection targets.
Oct 24. 1990 - IDA alerted the Minister of Finance (MOF) that in the event these targets were not
met IDA would consider a possible suspension of disbursements.
MCC made no significant effort to comply with the agreement.
April 16. 1991 - IDA alerted MOF for the second time asking for progress by April 30, 1991 and
informally suspended disbursements for the MCC component.
IDA also showed its discontent with the sporadic GOL's financial obligation towards MCC, as the
city was unable to adequately finance its basic service functions.
MCC took no serious action and lagged behind in computerization of the rate collection program and
the hiring of qualified staff.
August 20. 1991 - GOL's efforts fell well short of the agreed program. IDA sent a third letter to
MOF advising that if further progress was not achieved a "formal" suspension of all project
disbursements would be initiated.
GOL brought its financial commitments to MCC up to date, but MCC continued to disregard its own
obligations vis-a-vis hiring of qualified financial staff and computerization of rate management system.
Nov. 15. 1991 - IDA sent still another letter to the Minister of Interior reiterating the above concerns.
Dec. 22. 1992 - A comprehensive Action Plan was set out by the Bank that outlined specific actions
to be performed, against definite dates in the absence of which a formal suspension was to be
triggered. Most of these actions were to be completed by September, 1993. The Action Plan
included filling important vacant posts; expenditure control; property tax collection; training;
agreement on arrears (LNDC); and course of action against tax defaulters.
March 4. 1993 - Bank evaluated the progress made so far and found major issues still outstanding
vii



such as finalization of the amendment of the Valuation and Rating Act; recruitment of a financial
advisor and a chartered accountant; submission of MCC audited accounts and statements of
expenditures; and meeting of quarterly rate collection targets.
April 10, 1993 - Bank again evaluated the progress and found less than satisfactory achievements.
Feb. 18. 1994 - Bank mission went to Maseru to examine status and to define an appropriate solution
to resume disbursements. After analyzing the situation thoroughly, mission concluded that the
project's performance had not improved much. The mission agreed with the GOL that the best course
of action was the cancellation of all the amounts not yet withdrawn.
March 11. 1994 - Bank received a written request from Mr. S. Baholo, Minister of Finance to cancel
the undisbursed amount of $17.2 million by March 31, 1994. Bank now awaits reconciliation of one
outstanding Special Account after which formal closing of project will take place.
IX. Pendin[ Issues:
33.    During the ICR mission it was agreed that by May 19, 1995: (i) MCC will send its consolidated
financial statements for the last six years; (ii) LSPP will provide additional statistical information
regarding its involvement in project activities; and (iii) LHLDC will provide its financial statements and
statistical information pertaining to its operations.
34.    For the outstanding amount of US$2,774 LHLDC wants to purchase water meters for the Ha
Thetsane site and send the corresponding receipts, although the Agency was informed at the of
cancellation that this would not be feasible.
X. Analysis of the urban situation
Recommendations
35.   It is important to realize that the achievement of a sound policy reform in the urban sector should
be made with a long-term agenda. During the course of the mission, some GOL authorities expressed
their interest in requesting IDA for a PPF for a follow-on operation in view of the strong commitment
of the present administration to the strengthening of local government. The Ministry of Home Affairs
has recently engaged in a restructuring effort based on the creation of a new department in charge of local
government and urban policy, and committed itself to changing the current legislation thus helping local
governments to smoothly run their functions.
36.    Given that the existing political environment is quite different from what it was at the time the
project activities were initiated, as well as the need to provide continuity to the efforts for strengthening
local government, the mission recommends that the Bank consider the possibility of financing a follow-on
operation. Moreover, it is strongly recommended that policy issues and training of a basic group of
human resources should be given first priority in the application of the proposed PPF.
viii



Annex I
List of persons met
Ministry of Finance
Mr. L.B. Mokotoane          Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Planning,
Economic & Manpower
Development
Mr. E. M. Matekane          Principal Secretary, Ministry of Planning, Economic & Manpower Dev.
Ms. V. Qhobosheane          Project Coordinator, Ministry of Planning, Economic & Manpower Dev.
Ministry of Local Government
Mr. A. Mosaase              Principal Secretary, Ministry of Local Government
Mr. Mota                    Former P.S. Ministry of Interior
Maseru City Council
Mr. M. Ntlaloe              Town Clerk
Mr. M. Malahleha            City Treasurer
Mr. 0. Motaung              Dept. Head, Parks & Recreation
Mr. E. Ntai                 Chief Accountant
Mr. L. Setloboko            Accountant (Receivables)
Mr. Mothabe                 Deputy Mayor (Former member Mgmt. Committee)
Mr. Chobokoane              Senior Counselor
Mr. Nkhahtle                Former Town Clerk
Mr. S. Phamotse             Former Town Clerk
Mr. Ramaema                 Former Town Clerk
Mr. L. Tsosane              Former Dept. Head, Admin. (first)
Mr. A. Sopeng               Former Mayor (first)
Mr. C. Ramainoane           Former Mayor
Mr. T. Mohlomi              Former Deputy Mayor
Ms. M. Mofolo               Former City Treasurer
Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation
Ms. M. Molapo               Dep. Managing Dir, Operations
Mr. G. Lenka                Dep. Managing Dir, Finance
Lesotho National Development Corporation
Mr. R. Lechesa              Director Technical & Admin. Services
Lesotho Bank
Mr. Monyane                 Managing Director
Department of Lands. Surveys and Physical Planning
Mr. M. Pitso                Head Valuation Department
Federation of Women Lawyer
Ms. Khabo                   Lawyer



~~~~~~~~~~/I/
%LTOANA
SOUTH AFRICA               (
KILOM 'ETERS
MILES/
\4P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\\
,.I  G _.&.1 ..... , _ ..... /  I
-   -T LESOTHOgeTsANt/    / 
SOUTHAFRIC      (,,   5wo\41LESOT/HO 
ZIMRABWEL/
BOTSWANA  ->(MOZAMBIOUE                           URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
NAMIBIA        
NAMIIA          ,          \MASERU: LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
SWAZILAND                              PROJECT AREAS                      -         MAIN ROADS
SOUTH AFRICA         y.,0 PREVIOUS PROJECT AREAS                                        -         OTHER SURFACED ROADS
I' x_                        .ROADS TO BE UPGRADED                                                      -- DIRT ROADS
~33  LES4THO (       3D--                    YEAR-Il I                                RIVSIREAMS
L-MLHU                               __- -  YEAR-Ill                              RESERVOIRS
YEAR IV I7                             BUILT UP AREAS
--   YEAR V II                        15W-ELEVATION CONTOUPS IN METERS
_                                                                                                                 _ . _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IT                                     3T






IBRD 20697
I ,    ~-~  w7   K''  d
_   .'   t -   PS O ' ,                          F3, EJo'   O  1- " .;. _-
C.To  _0( ---                                                  |w/  r
h1a~~~~~~~~~~~~1'
JK    5At;   _~~~~ . ) ^ ;; 75'  \ K ' ;  
HZv    @. X     E 2\S \~'. ;
URBAN SECTOR REORIENTATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION
JANUAWI1"









' MAt' NG
RFeport No:      14791
Type: ICR



