Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1898 LSO
               (Urban Sector Reorientation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
         LESOTHO HOUSING AND LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                        Dated May 26, 1988
                      LHLDC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   26,   1988   between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and LESOTHO HOUSING AND
LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (LHLDC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR  15,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that LHLDC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and LHLDC, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to LHLDC on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in the
LHLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS LHLDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. LHLDC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this  end,  shall carry out Parts B.1 and
C.2 of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and housing development practices, and  shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as  needed,  the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods  and  works required for Parts B.1
and C.2 of the Project, and to  be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (b)  In order to assist LHLDC  in  carrying out Parts B.1 and
C.2 of the Project, LHLDC  shall employ management and engineering
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience   and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures, satisfactory to  the  Association, on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World bank as  Executing Agency", published by the Bank
in August 1981.
     Section 2.03. LHLDC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect  of this Agreement and Parts
B.1 and C.2 of the Project.
     Section 2.04. LHLDC  shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under  the  LHLDC  Subsidiary   Loan   Agreement.  Except  as  the
Association shall otherwise agree, LHLDC  shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning  or  waiving  the   Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any
provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  LHLDC  shall,  at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under  this  Agreement  and   under   the  LHLDC  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement, and  other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  LHLDC  shall  promptly  inform  the  Association  of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  LHLDC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the LHLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. LHLDC shall:
Page  3
     (a)  adopt  criteria,  satisfactory  to  the  Association, on
beneficiary eligibility and plot allocation, which criteria shall:
(i) ensure that 55% of the plots in the Project Area are less than
275 square meters each;  (ii)  provide  for the allocation of such
plots to households at or below  the 60th percentile of the Maseru
Income Distribution; and (iii) ensure  that  75% of such plots are
allocated to households at  or  below  the  40th percentile of the
Maseru Income Distribution; and
     (b)  periodically review these criteria with the Borrower and
the Association to ensure their suitability.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of LHLDC
     Section 3.01. LHLDC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and  housing  development  practices   under  the  supervision  of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. LHLDC shall  at  all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and LHLDC practices.
     Section  3.03.  LHLDC  shall   take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or  make  other  provisions, satisfactory to
the Association, for  insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) LHLDC  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate  to  reflect,   in   accordance   with  sound  accounting
practices,  its  operations   and   financial  condition  and  the
resources and expenditures  for  activities  with respect to Parts
B.1 and C.2.
     (b)  LHLDC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  LHLDC shall make the  Project  accounts available to MMC
to enable it to maintain consolidated Project accounts.
     Section 4.02.  LHLDC  shall  raise  the  rents  on its rental
housing, on a regular basis, to cover the costs of maintenance and
Page  4
management.
     Section 4.03. LHLDC  shall,  by  not  later than December 31,
1988, prepare and introduce a  corporate plan, consistent with the
Borrower's national  housing  policy  and  implementation plan and
acceptable to the Association,  for  the  first  five years of its
operations.
     Section 4.04. LHLDC  shall,  by  not  later than December 31,
1988, introduce  accounting,  budgeting  and  financial management
systems acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.05. LHLDC  shall  introduce  plot pricing policies,
satisfactory to the Association,  which shall, inter alia, reflect
full cost  recovery  and  market  prices,  but  take  into account
differential land values.
     Section 4.06. LHLDC shall use  the proceeds of the plot sales
at  Thetsane,  excluding  profits,   to  finance  similar  capital
investment projects and annual  debt servicing requirements of the
Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of LHLDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
LHLDC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  5
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For LHLDC:
          Lesotho Housing and Land Development Corporation
          P.O. Box 460
          Maseru 100
          Lesotho
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  LHLDC  may  be  taken  or executed by the
Managing Director or such other  person  or persons as LHLDC shall
designate in writing, and  LHLDC  shall furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    LESOTHO HOUSING AND
                         LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                    By /s/ W. T. Van Tonder
                                         Authorized Representative
