Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1898 LSO
               (Urban Sector Reorientation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                     MASERU MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                        Dated May 26, 1988
                       MMC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   26,   1988   between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  MASERU MUNICIPAL
COUNCIL (MMC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR  15,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that MMC  agree  to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and MMC,  part  of the proceeds of the Credit
under the Development Credit  Agreement  will be made available to
MMC on the terms and  conditions  set  forth in the MMC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS MMC, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. MMC declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C.1
of the Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency, and in con-
formity with appropriate  administrative,  financial, engineering
and local government practices, and  shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed,  the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for Parts A and
C.1 of the Project, and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
     (b)  In order to assist MMC  in  carrying out Parts A and C.1
of  the  Project,  MMC  shall  employ  management  and engineering
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience,  and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures, satisfactory to  the  Association, on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank as  Executing Agency", published by the Bank
in August 1981.
     Section 2.03. MMC shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect  of this Agreement and Parts
A and C.1 of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  MMC  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the MMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, MMC shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving  the  MMC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any  provision
thereof.
     Section  2.05.  (a)  MMC   shall,   at  the  request  of  the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the MMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  MMC  shall  promptly  inform   the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  MMC  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the MMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  MMC  shall  maintain  until  completion of the
Project, a  Special  Projects  Unit,  under  terms  and conditions
Page  3
satisfactory to the Association,  which  shall, inter alia, handle
day-to-day coordination and monitoring of Project activities. Such
Special Projects  Unit  shall  comprise  of  a  Project Manager, a
Project  Adviser,  a   Technical  Officer,  Community  Development
Officers and an Accountant, all with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of MMC
     Section 3.01. MMC shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
and local government practices  under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. MMC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
local government practices.
     Section  3.03.  MMC   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or  make  other  provisions, satisfactory to
the Association, for  insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  MMC  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate  to  reflect,   in   accordance   with  sound  accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  MMC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (statements of revenue and expenditures and related
               statements)  for  each   fiscal  year  audited,  in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements, as well  as  the  audit thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) MMC shall through the Special Projects Unit
maintain consolidated records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance  with  consistently  maintained  appropriate accounting
practices, the  operations,  resources  and  expenditures  for all
activities under the Project.
     (b)  MMC shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistenly   applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  4
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section  4.03.  MMC  shall,   carry  out  an  action  program
satisfactory  to  the  Association  to,  inter  alia,  improve the
collection of property rates  due,  including arrears, from 60% in
FY 1988-1989, to 70% in FY  1989-1990, 75% in FY 1990-1991, 80% in
FY 1991-1992 and 85% in FY 1992-1993.
     Section 4.04. MMC shall, commencing 1988/1989 and thereafter,
ensure that its property rates and charges from non-tax sources of
revenue are set at such levels,  as shall make revenues from these
sources, together with the Borrower's contributions, sufficient to
cover the recurrent costs of providing municipal services and debt
service.
     Section  4.05.  MMC  shall  annually,  by  October  1,  until
completion of the  Project,  furnish  to  the Association, for its
review and comment,  its  proposed  capital investment program for
the following fiscal year. Such program shall include, inter alia,
a  ranking  of  projects  by  priority,  their  capital  costs, an
analysis of MMC's expected  ability  to  recover the capital costs
and a statement of the benefits of each project.
     Section 4.06. MMC  shall,  by  September  30, 1988, implement
accounting and budgeting systems satisfactory to the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of MMC  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
MMC of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Page  5
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For MMC:
          Maseru Municipal Council
          P.O. Box 911
          Maseru 100
          Lesotho
                                            Telex:
                                               4292 LO
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of MMC  may  be  taken or executed by the Town
Clerk or such other  person  or  persons  as  the Town Clerk shall
designate in writing,  and  MMC  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    MASERU MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                    By /s/ W. T. Van Tonder
                                        Authorized Representative
Page  6
