Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1898 LSO
               (Urban Sector Reorientation Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 26, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1898 LSO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 26,  1988,  between   KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part of the Project  will  be  carried out by the Maseru
Municipal Council (MMC), the  Lesotho Housing and Land Development
Corporation  (LHLDC)  and  Lesotho  Building  Finance  Corporation
(LBFC)  with  the  Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of such
assistance, the Borrower  will  make  available  to MMC, LHLDC and
LBFC the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth  in  this Agreement and in the Pro-
ject Agreements of even date  herewith between the Association and
MMC, LHLDC and LBFC, respectively;;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MICARD"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Interior,
Chieftainship Affairs and Rural Development;
     (b)  "MMC" means  the  Maseru  Municipal Council, established
pursuant to Section 4 of the Urban Government Act, 1983;
     (c)  "LHLDC" means the  Lesotho  Housing and Land Development
Corporation, established pursuant to  the Lesotho Housing and Land
Development Corporation Order, 1988;
     (d)  "LBFC" means the  Lesotho  Building Finance Corporation,
established pursuant to  the  Lesotho Building Finance Corporation
Act, 1976;
     (e)  "LSPP"  means  the  Department  of  Lands,  Surveys  and
Physical Planning within MICARD;
     (f)  "DOH" means the Department of Housing within MICARD;
     (g)  "LHC" means the  Lesotho  Housing Corporation, a company
established and operating  pursuant to the Companies Act, 1967;
     (h)  "LEHCO-OP"  means  the   Lower  Income  Housing  Company
(Proprietary)  Limited,  a   company   established  and  operating
pursuant to the Companies Act, 1967;
     (i)  "MMC Project Agreement" means  the Agreement between the
Association and MMC of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the MMC Project Agreement;
     (j)  "LHLDC Project  Agreement"  means  the Agreement between
the Association and LHLDC of  even  date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes schedules and
agreements supplemental to the LHLDC Project Agreement;
     (k)  "LBFC Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and LBFC of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the LBFC Project Agreement;
     (l)  "MMC  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means  the Agreement
entered  into   between   the   Borrower   and   MMC  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the MMC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (m)  "LHLDC Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement"  means the Agreement
entered  into  between   the   Borrower   and  LHLDC  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Page  3
LHLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (n)  "Subsidiary Loan  Agreements"  means  the MMC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the LHLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (o)  "MMC Special Account" means  the  account referred to in
this Agreement;
     (p)  "LHLDC Special Account" means the account referred to in
this Agreement;
     (q)  "LBFC Special Account" means  the account referred to in
this Agreement;
     (r)  "FY" means fiscal year: April 1 through March 31 for the
Borrower, MMC and LHLDC,  and  January  1  through December 31 for
LBFC;
     (s)  "M" means maloti the Borrower's currency;
     (t)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the  Association to the Borrower, pursuant
to an exchange of  letters,  dated  June  26,  1987, and August 5,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (u)  "Project Areas" are Maseru South and Thetsane.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to fifteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  open  and  maintain  in dollars the
following special accounts (the  Special Accounts) in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  MMC Special Account for the purposes of Parts A and
               C.1 of the Project;
         (ii)  LHLDC Special Account for the purposes of Parts B.1
               and C.2 of the Project; and
        (iii)  LBFC Special Account for  the purposes of Parts B.2
               and C.3 of the Project.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with  the  provisions  of  Schedules 4, 5 and 6
respectively.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  March  1 and September 1
commencing September  1,  1998,  and  ending  March  1, 2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on March 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five (5) consecutive years; and (ii)
the  Bank  shall  consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy  for  Bank
lending,  the  Association  may,  subsequent  to  the  review  and
approval thereof by  the  Executive  Directors  of the Association
and, after due consideration  by  them  of  the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the  terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
the  amount  of  each  such  installment  not  yet  due  until the
principal amount of  the  Credit  shall  have  been  repaid. If so
requested  by  the  Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in
the amounts of such  installments,  the  payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and  outstanding  from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of  the Association, such revision shall not
change  the  grant  element  obtained  under  the  above-mentioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Page  5
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) (i) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under  this Agreement, shall
carry out Parts C.4  through  C.6  of  the Project through MICARD,
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate  administrative  and  financial  practices  and  shall
provide promptly as  needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources needed  for  that  purpose;  and  (ii) without any
limitation or restriction upon any  of its other obligations under
this Agreement, the Borrower  shall  cause  MMC, LHLDC and LBFC to
perform, in accordance with  the  MMC Project Agreement, the LHLDC
Project Agreement and  the  LBFC  Project Agreement, respectively,
all the obligations  of  MMC,  LHLDC  and  LBFC therein set forth,
shall take  and  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable  MMC, LHLDC and LBFC to perform
such obligations, and shall  not  take  or  permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds of the Credit,
allocated to Parts A.2 and A.4 (b)  of the Project, to MMC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and MMC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which  shall  include, inter alia, that the
proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of four
percent (4%) per annum, for a  term  of 25 years including a grace
period not exceeding five years.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds  of the Credit
allocated to  Part  B.1  (b)  to  LHLDC  under  a  subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into  between the Borrower and LHLDC under
terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have  been  approved  by the
Association,  and  which  shall  include,  inter  alia,  that  the
proceeds of the credit shall be  relent  at an interest rate of at
least eight  percent  (8%)  per  annum  for  a  term  of  25 years
including a grace period not exceeding five years.
     (d)  The Borrower shall make  the  proceeds of the Credit for
Parts A.1 and A.4 (a), B.1 (c)  and C of the Project (except Parts
C.4 through C.6 of the Project)  available to MMC, LHLDC and LBFC,
respectively, as grants.
     (e)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary Loan  Agreements  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provisions thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement  of  the  goods  and  works,  required  for the
Project and to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit,
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) shall,
except for Parts C.4 through C.6 of the Project, be carried out by
MMC, LHLDC and  LBFC,  respectively,  pursuant  to Section 2.03 of
their respective Project Agreements.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall establish, by September 30,
Page  6
1988, and maintain until  completion  of  the Project, under terms
and  conditions  satisfactory   to   the  Association,  a  Project
Management Team chaired by the Town Clerk and comprising the heads
of all four departments in  MMC, the Deputy Principal Secretary of
MICARD, the Commissioner of Lands, the Managing Directors of LHLDC
and LBFC and the Director of the Housing Department of MICARD.
     Section  3.05.  The  Borrower   shall,   by  not  later  than
December 31,  1988,  adopt  a  National  Urban  Housing Policy and
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  3.06.  The   Borrower   shall   by  not  later  than
September 30, 1988: (a) declare  the  Project Areas to be Selected
Development Areas, pursuant to  Section  44 of the Borrower's Land
Act, No. 17 of 1979; and (b) prepare a standard format for leases,
satisfactory to the Association, for sale of plots at Thetsane.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower   shall,   by  not  later  than
September 30,  1988,  furnish  to  the  Association a satisfactory
schedule  and  arrangements  for  the  implementation  of off-site
infrastructure, not included in the Project, for Thetsane.
     Section  3.08.  The  Borrower   shall,   by  not  later  than
September 30, 1988, furnish to the Association, for its review and
comments, simplified  procedures  for  the  transfer  of  title in
Thetsane, through MMC and LHLDC, to the Project beneficiaries.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, amend
its Land Act of 1979, to provide for the issuance of a revalidated
form of tenure to be recognized  as  a primary form of title under
the Act.
     Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, through LSPP:
     (a)  carry out  a  program  of  tenure  investigation, tenure
revalidation and valuation for Maseru South and incorporate Maseru
South into the tax roll by June 30, 1990;
     (b)  undertake a revaluation of  Maseru covering all areas on
the tax  roll,  including  Thamaes  and  Maseru  South, for imple-
mentation in the Borrower's FY 1992; and
     (c)  carry out  a  program  of  tenure  investigation, tenure
revalidation and valuation  program  for  all  the remaining peri-
urban areas of Maseru and incorporate such areas into the tax roll
by June 30, 1993.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain records and  accounts adequate to reflect,
               in accordance with  sound accounting practices, the
               expenditures with respect to  Parts C.4 through C.6
               of the Project and
         (ii)  make such records and accounts available to MMC for
               the purposes  of  maintaining  consolidated Project
               accounts.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts,  referred  to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year,
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish, to the  Association  as soon as available,
               but in any  case  not  later  than  nine (9) months
Page  7
               after the end of each such year, the report of such
               audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such
               detail as  the  Association  shall  have reasonably
               requested, including  a  separate  opinion  by said
               auditors as to  whether  the statements of expendi-
               ture submitted  during  such  fiscal year, together
               with the procedures  and internal controls involved
               in their preparation, can be relied upon to support
               the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts, referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section  and those for the
               Special Accounts for each  fiscal year, audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish, to the  Association  as soon as available,
               but in any  case  not  later  than  nine (9) months
               after the end of each such year, the report of such
               audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such
               detail as  the  Association  shall  have reasonably
               requested, including  a  separate  opinion  by said
               auditors   as   to   whether   the   statements  of
               expenditure  submitted  during  such  fiscal  year,
               together with the  procedures and internal controls
               involved in their  preparation,  can be relied upon
               to support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.03.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  from  FY 1988/1989
through FY 1992/1993 provide  a  subvention  of one million maloti
(M 1,000,000) to MMC; (b) by June  30, 1989, carry out a review to
determine the steps leading to  the phasing out of said subvention
by the end of FY  1992/1993;  (c)  annually make a contribution of
about six hundred  and  fifty  thousand  maloti  (M 650,000) in FY
1988/1989 to MMC in  lieu  of  rates for the Borrower's properties
within  the   municipal   area   and   thereafter   increase  such
contribution annually by  an  amount  based  on  valuation and tax
increases in the area.
     Section 4.04.  The  Borrower  shall,  by  September 30, 1988,
Page  8
transfer the balance of the property  rates fund to MMC to provide
MMC with adequate funds  for  working capital, capital investments
and to cover any operating deficits.
     Section 4.05.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  by  not later than
September 30, 1988, have completed  the transfer of the assets and
liabilities of LHC and LEHCO-OP to LHLDC; and
     (b)  ensure that LHLDC is adequately capitalized to enable it
to operate on a sound financial basis.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  MMC, LHLDC or LBFC shall  have  failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under  the MMC Project Agreement, the
LHLDC Project Agreement or the LBFC Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it  improbable  that  MMC,  LHLDC or LBFC, as the
case may be, will be  able to perform their respective obligations
under the MMC Project  Agreement,  the  LHLDC Project Agreement or
the LBFC Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Urban Government  Act,  1983,  the LHLDC Order, 1988
and the LBFC Act, 1976  of  the  Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely  the  ability  of  MMC,  LHLDC or LBFC to
perform any  of  their  respective  obligations  under the Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of  MMC,  LHLDC  or  LBFC  or  for  the  suspension  of their
respective operations.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.Ol  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof  shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  events  are  specified as  addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the MMC and LHLDC  Subsidiary  Loan Agreements have been
executed on behalf of  the  Borrower, MMC and LHLDC, respectively;
and
     (b)  MMC has put in place the Project Manager and Accountant,
and recruited the Project Adviser  referred  to in Section 2.06 of
the MMC Project Agreement.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
Page  9
     (a)  that  the  MMC  Project  Agreement,  the  LHLDC  Project
Agreement and the LBFC Project Agreement have been duly authorized
or ratified by MMC, LHLDC  and LBFC, respectively, and are legally
binding upon MMC, LHLDC and LBFC, respectively, in accordance with
their terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  have  been duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower,  MMC and LHLDC, respec-
tively, and are legally binding  upon  the Borrower, MMC and LHLDC
respectively, in accordance with their terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.O1. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 395
          Maseru 100
          Lesotho
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINMIN                            4367
               Maseru
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                    By /s/ W. T. Van Tonder
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  10
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  MMC
     (a)  Civil Works            6,080,000       100%
     (b)  Vehicles and           1,040,000       100%
          equipment
     (c)  Consultants'           1,070,000       100%
          services
     (d)  Training                 290,000       100%
(2)  LHLDC
     (a) Civil works             1,480,000       100%
     (b)  Vehicles and              70,000       100%
          equipment
     (c)  Consultants'             120,000       100%
          services
     (d)  Training                 130,000       100%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  LBFC
     (a)  Vehicles and             220,000       100%
          equipment
     (b)  Consultants'             180,000       100%
          services
     (c)  Training                 230,000       100%
(4)  MICARD
     (a)  Vehicles and             150,000       100%
          equipment
     (b)  Consultants'             410,000       100%
          services
(5)  Refunding of                  550,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Page  11
                                                 Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 2,980,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 15,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) implement a program
of  policy  reform  to  shift  the  urban  sector  towards greater
financial self-sufficiency  and  accountability including improved
cost recovery  and  increased  availability  of long-term finance;
(ii)  restructure   and   strengthen   urban  sector  institutions
including the Maseru Municipal  Council,  and the Lesotho Building
Finance Corporation and  establish  the  Lesotho  Housing and Land
Development Corporation; and (iii)  support the improvement of the
functioning of land markets in Lesotho.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Maseru Municipal Council
1.   Establishment of MMC.
2.   Implementation of MMC's  five-year investment plan, including
the upgrading  of  about  136  km  of  roads,  upgrading of public
amenities and provision of roads and street lighting.
3.   MMC's  five   year   operating   and  recurrent  expenditures
requirements.
4.   Upgrading of Maseru South including the provision of:
     (a)  essential  services,   water   supply,   sanitation  and
community facilities; and
     (b)  roads, trains and street lighting.
Part B:   Housing Development and Finance
1.   LHLDC
     (a)  Establishment of LHLDC.
     (b)  Development by LHLDC of about 1,500 serviced residential
plots  in  the   Thetsane   area   of   Maseru  including  on-site
infrastructure.
     (c)  Provision of off-site infrastructure including community
facilities, electricity and water.
2.   LBFC
     Provision by LBFC of  about  1,500 mortgage loans at Thetsane
and 1,900 mortgage loans at Maseru South.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Strengthening of MMC during its initial years and of its land
planning and management capacity.
Page  12
2.   Strengthening of  LHLDC's  management,  development of appro-
priate policies and the  introduction of an implementation program
and management systems.
3.   Strengthening of LBFC's  capacity  to more effectively under-
take its expanded role in  housing  finance and improvement of its
internal procedures and systems.
4.   Strengthening of DOH's capacity to develop and monitor appro-
priate housing policies and programs.
5.   Strengthening of LSPP  to  enable  it  to undertake the tasks
necessary to assure proper land management.
6.   Preparation of future urban investment requirements.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  civil works and
equipment and  vehicles  shall  be  grouped  in  bid packages each
estimated to cost the equivalent  of  $500,000 and $50,000 or more
respectively.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts, for civil works  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent  of  $500,000  each  and  for  equipment  and  vehicles
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 each, may be
awarded on the basis of  competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works  may  be  carried  out  by  force  account by the
Borrower's forces or by MMC.
3.   Materials  and  equipment  for   house  construction  may  be
procured  directly  from   local   suppliers  in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works, estimated
to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $250,000  or  more,  and  for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent  of  $150,000 or more, the proce-
dures set forth in paragraphs 2 and  4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply. Where  payments  for  such  contracts are to be
made out of any of the  Special Accounts, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two conformed copies of each contract
required to be furnished to  the Association pursuant to paragraph
2 (d) of Appendix 1  to  the  Guidelines shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account concerned in respect of such contract.
Page  13
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made  out of any of the Special Accounts,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of  each  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to para-
graph 3 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall be furnished to the
Association as part of  the  evidence  to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedules 3, 4 and 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying out Parts C.4
through 6 of the  Project,  the  Borrower shall employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be   satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                        MMC Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a),
(b), (c) and (d) set forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A and C.1  of  the  Project  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 1,100,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the MMC Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the MMC Special Account  shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the MMC Special  Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of  the  Authorized  Allocation   and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the MMC Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
MMC Special Account such amount  or  amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
Page  14
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the MMC  Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On  the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the MMC Special Account such  amounts as shall be required to
replenish the MMC Special  Account  with amounts not exceeding the
amount of  payments  made  out  of  the  MMC  Special  Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the  Borrower out of the MMC Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposits  into  the MMC Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to the  eligible  Categories  for Parts A
               and C.1 of  the  Project,  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect to  Parts  A and C.1 of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories for  Parts  A  and  C.1  of  the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts  remaining  on  deposit into the MMC Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  MMC Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in  any  amount  not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to  paragraph  4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit
into the MMC  Special  Account  (or,  if  the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association)  an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the  portion  thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by  the  Association into the MMC Special
Account shall be made until the  Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in the MMC Special Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
Page  15
                            SCHEDULE 5
                       LHLDC Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2) (a),
(b), (c) and (d) set forth  in  the table in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts B.1 and C.2 of  the  Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 220,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited   into   the   LHLDC   Special   Account   pursuant   to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of  the  LHLDC  Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures in  accordance  with  the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory toit  that  the  LHLDC   
Special   Account  has  been  duly  opened,
withdrawals   of   the   Authorized   Allocation   and  subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the LHLDC  Special Account may be made as
follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
LHLDC Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the  LHLDC  Special Account at such intervals
as the Association shall specify.  On  the basis of such requests,
the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the LHLDC Special Account  such  amounts as shall be required
to replenish the LHLDC Special  Account with amounts not exceeding
the amount of payments made  out  of the LHLDC Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each  payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out  of the LHLDC
Special Account  for  which  the  Borrower  requests replenishment
pursuant to paragraph 3 (b)  of  this Schedule, the Borrower shall
furnish to the  Association,  prior  to  or  at  the  time of such
request, such and other evidence  as the Association shall reason-
ably request, showing  that  such  payment  was  made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposits into the LHLDC Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
Page  16
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to the eligible  Categories for Parts B.1
               and C.2 of  the  Project,  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect to Parts B.1 and C.2 of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories for Parts  B.1  and  C.2  of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining  on deposit into the LHLDC Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of  the  LHLDC  Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure  or  in  any  amount  not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to  paragraph  4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit
into the LHLDC Special  Account  (or,  if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association)  an amount equal to the amount
of  such  payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or
justified. No further deposit  by  the  Association into the LHLDC
Special Account shall be  made  until  the  Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in  the LHLDC Special Account will not
be required to cover  further  payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to
the Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                       LBFC Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (3) (a),
(b) and (c) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts B.2 and C.3 of  the  Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 75,000  to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited   into   the   LBFC    Special   Account   pursuant   to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the LBFC Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the LBFC Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of  the  Authorized  Allocation   and  subsequent  withdrawals  to
replenish the LBFC Special Account may be made as follows:
Page  17
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
LBFC Special Account such amount  or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the LBFC Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On  the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the LBFC Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the LBFC Special Account  with amounts not exceeding the
amount of  payments  made  out  of  the  LBFC  Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the LBFC Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other  evidence  as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposits into  the LBFC Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to the eligible  Categories for Parts B.2
               and C.3 of  the  Project,  minus  the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect to Parts B.2 and C.3 of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories for Parts  B.2  and  C.3  of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining  on  deposit into the LBFC Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the LBFC Special Account: (i) was made for
any expenditure or in  any  amount  not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2  of  this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to  paragraph  4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit
into the LBFC Special  Account  (or,  if  the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association)  an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the  portion  thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by  the Association into the LBFC Special
Account shall be made until the  Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
Page  18
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in  the  LBFC Special Account will not
be required to cover  further  payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to
the Credit Account.
