Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIECPY
Report No.  4722-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 14, 1984
Transportation Division I
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =    Ugandan Shilling
US$ 1.00                =    U Sh 250
U Sh 1.00                    US$0.004
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             0.62 mile (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)        0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)   =    2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
EAC      =     East African Community
EARC     =     East African Railways Corporation
HMOS     =     Highway Maintenance and Organization Study
MOT      -     Ministry of Transport
MOW      =     Ministry of Works
MPED     =     Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
PTC      -     People's Transport Company
UA       =     Uganda Airlines
URC      =     Uganda Railways Corporation
UTC      =     Uganda Transport Company
UTCU     =     Uganda Transport Cooperative Union
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
I    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..........................................    1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting ............................   1
B.  The Transport System..... ... . .. .            ............. .... ...... .    2
C. Transport Sector Management...    6
D.  Planning and Coordination ...... , ................. ... ..                 6
E.  Transport Sector Ivestment...............                                   7
F. Transport Policy and Isesps                                                 10
G. Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector   12
II.  THE RIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .......................... o.... .... . ...  14
A .  Tne Network* ................................   14
B.  Road Use .       .       .................................                 15
C.  The Road Transport Industry                 . ....................  16
D.  Traffic Regulations and Safety........... t......... ....   19
E.  Administration...* .......... o........ o ...................e*v 19
F.  Staffing and Training. ...................... . .............   20
G.  Maintenance .... ..             .....................................  ...   23
H.  Planning and Financing of Investments....................   24
I.  Engineering and Construction ..............................  26
III. THE PROJECT ...............          .........                       .......  27
A.  Objectives ............0........... ........   27
B.  Description i.......0..........   ......    27
C.  Project Cost and Financing ............ ......32
D.   Implementation and Procurement...........S................   35
E.  Disbursements                 ................  .. ....  37
F.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements............  39
G. Environmental Aspects......  40
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...............o.......41
A.  Genrl.........e...................   41
B.  Area of Influence of the Project,
Benefits and Beneficiaries ..........                 ...... . .......   41
C.  Economic Analysis. . . . . . . ..........         ........... .....  43
D.  Riss..is......k...........s.......   45
V.  AGREEKENTS REACRED AND RECOMMENDATION .................. .......  46
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Contents Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Annual Estimated Road Motor Vehicles by Type
2.  Roads Included in the Project for Periodic Maintenance
3. Road Maintenance Equipment to be Purchased
4. Draft Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance to the Ministry of Transport
5. Draft Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance to the Ministry of Works
6. Draft Terms of Reference for Road Maintenance Study
7. Outline Program for Development of Local Construction Industry
8. Progress Reporting Requirements
9. Economic Analysis
10. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
I. Organization of the Ministry of Works
II. Organization of Road Maintenance Section of Technical Division under
Ministry of Works
III. Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
Uganda, Highway Network (IBRD 17320)
This report was prepared by S.L.Kathuria (Sr. Highway Engineer) and
M. Le Blanc (Economist) who appraised the project in April 1983.
B. Bostrom (Sr. Economist) and C. Applegate (Technical Editor) also
participated in the preparation of this report.



I  TE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Ab ~     A en  LCO.;L  s.  e.sic Settin
1.01      Uganda is a landlocked country In the upper basin of the N1ile,
astride the Equator botu-nded by the Sudan to the north, Kenya to the east,
Tanzania, Lake Victoria and .Rwanda to the south and Zaire to the west.  The
total area of the country is 236000 km2, about the size of the United
Kingdom, of which about one seventh is swamps and lakes, and most of the
remainder is a plateau about 1700 m above sea level,  Rainfall averages
1,270 mm in the central and eastern parts of the country while the somewhat
drier northern parts receive about 760 mm annually. Neither its temperate
climate nor its topography pose major Impediments to transiport.
1.02      The population, est imaiced at 13.5 million and growing at 2.6%
per annum, is predominantly rural with roughly 93% living in the
countryside.  Popult-ion density averages 57 persons per kin2, which is
about twice that of neigghbouring Kenya.  Uganda is essentially an
agricultural economy with that sector contributing 75% of GDP and 95% of
the country's exports.  The share of coffee, the most important export
crop, in export receipts increased from 53% in 1971 to over 90% in 1982
despite a decline to 174,000 tOnS in 1982 from 191,000 tons In 1970.  Other
export cash crops including cotton, tea, tobacco and sugar, which in the
past provided up to 42% of eXPort earnings currently account for less than
10% of agricultural exports.
1.03      The production of foodcrops for domestic consumption, the most
important activity of the agricultural sector, amounted to about 10.3
million tons in 1980 growing to 13.5 million tons in 1982. The main
function of the transport system is the distribution of this produiction
throughout the country. When food production, which currently is about
half of that of the peak years, revert to their past levels, the
deteriorated transportation system will constitute a bottleneck.
1.04      During the last decade the economy of Uganda has seen a reversal
from growth to decline followed bv rapid deterioration during 1972-1979 and
the subsequent liberation war.  Rea1l G-DP in 1982 was consequently only
two-thirds of the 1971 level- and per capita income fell by 48% in real
terms, to a level of US$240 over the same period.  This has and continues
to have an adverse impact on the transport sector and its operations -
foreign exchange to renew equipment- and vehicles and to provide spare parts
is scarce; staff morale is low due to the harsh economic situation and low
salaries and the efficiency of road ma-ntenance works has suffered due to



-2-
this. The decline in the share of transport sector from about 12% of GDP
in 1970 to about 7% in 1982 is explained by the very deteriorated state of
infrastructure and vehicles.
B. The Transport System
1.05      Uganda's transport infrastructure comprises about 27,540 km of
roads of which about 2,000 km are paved; a railway system totalling 1,350
km; a port on Lake Victoria providing a rail-ferry link to Tanzania; one
international airport at Entebbe and eleven domestic airfields. The
density of the transport system is adequate, however, due to severe neglect
over the past 10 years, the infrastructure has deteriorated and requires
rehabilitation and maintenance. The proposed project is primarily aimed at
stopping further deterioration of the road system.
Highways
1.06      The highway subsector is described in detail in Chapter II.
Railways
1.07      The railway network consists of a 1,350 km metre-gauge system of
two main lines branching off at Tororo on the eastern border with Kenya
(Map IBRD 17320). Until 1974, the railways in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
were organized as a single operating system within the East African
Railways Corporation, although each country collected revenues for goods
originating within its boundaries. Train and traffic control in all
countries was centered at the Nairobi headquarters, which was also the
heavy locomotive and wagon repair center for the system and the main
training centre. In 1977, when the Eastern African Community (EAC) broke
up, the Uganda Railways Corporation (URC), a parastatal under the Ministry
of Transport, was formed.
1.08     In general, the railway's infrastructure and its rolling stock
would be adequate for it to play its role in the economy if they were
rehabilitated and efficiently utilized; much of these have deteriorated due
to failure to perform adequate maintenance and replace capital. The URC's
efficiency has been further constrained by the lack of adequate operating
operating relations with neighbouring countries, through which the bulk of
Uganda's external trade transits.



1.09      The railway's condition needs to be improved urgently.  Although
the track was not seriously damaged during the liberation war, it is
estimated that over 70% is now sub-standard. Moreover stations, offices,
sheds, communication equipment and service vehicles need urgent repair of
damage caused during the war. The lack of communications, an operating
necessity, has resulted in further straining the already limited
administrative and operational capacity of URC. The situation regarding
rolling stock and locomotives has improved somewhat in recent years and
Uganda will have sufficient rolling stock capacity now that Kenya has
agreed to release Uganda's share of EAC wagons. The locomotive fleet is
more than adequate for present traffic, although approximately one half of
it is currently out of service due to the need for repairs or lack of spare
parts. Repair facilities remain inadequate; a new workshop being built at
Nalukolongo, near Kampala, with local financing is proceeding only slowly
as funds become available.
1.10      Uganda remains virtually dependent on Kenya for its import/export
traffic. Thus co-operation with Kenya is a key element in Uganda's overall
transport strategy. Considerable progress in this area has been made
recently and there is an informal agreement between Kenya Railways and URC
which forms the basis for the exchange of rolling stock between the two
countries. At negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will take
all measures necessary on its part by September 1, 1984 to formalize
appropriate arrangements with Kenya concerning the interchange of rolling
stock (Para. 5.01(a)). A similar agreement will be reached with the
Government of Kenya under the proposed Second Highway Sector Loan.
1.11      With the breakup of the EAC, the number of passengers handled by
the Ugandan railway system fell sharply. Freight traffic had begun to
decline much earlier, and by 1982, the volume of goods had fallen to some
300,000 tons or 30% of peak levels reached in the early 1970s.   Although
there has been some recovery, especially in passenger service during the
past two years (3.3 million passengers in 1982), the railway is still
underutilized. While this reflects in part the general decline in economic
activity, it is also due to a diversion of traffic to road transport caused
by the low efficiency of the railways; the low level of security of
traffic, particularly for high value products such as coffee and fuel; and
coordination problems with Kenya Railways. In 1982 the major export
commodity was coffee of which the railways carried about 53% or some 92,000
tons. The railway is also now carrying maize exports to Tanzania using the
rail ferry on Lake Victoria. For imports the railway carries only a small
portion (6,000 tons or 4%) of fuel. This should increase when URC gets
EAC-owned tank wagons under their own direct control. Another area of
potential expansion is the movement of import goods in containers.



-4-
1.12      The breakup of the EAC also imposed completely new institutional
requirements on Uganda. As all general services such as administration,
procurement, finance, accounting, train control and heavy maintenance had
been centralized in Nairobi, both Tanzania and Uganda were left without
them. Thus URC has weak commercial and technical management and little
experience in railway operations. Therefore in addition to rehabilitation
of infrastructure, URC needs a major staff training effort, a complete
review of personnel policies, and technical assistance to help the railway
in management and operational tasks. Government is currently discussing
with the UNDP possible assistance in reviewing its management and
operations and in providing limited management support to URC. The
Association would act as executing agency for that project.
1.13      The railway's rise from its humble beginnings has been a slow
one, interrupted by the severe economic downturn experienced in Uganda, the
liberation war and the period of uncertainty which followed. URC received
French aid (120 million FF) from 1980 to 1982 to purchase locomotives,
telecommunications, track maintenance equipment and technical assistance in
the operations, accounting and commercial fields. A second part of this
aid will provide technical assistance, track welding, two additional
locomotives, spare parts and coffee wagons. The share of URC in the
transport of imported fuel will increase when 25 tank wagons financed by
European Development Fund are delivered.
Air Transport
1.14      The air transport infrastructure consists of an international
airport at Entebbe capable of handling long-range jet aircraft and eleven
domestic airfields, of which eight were operated until June 1981 when all
domestic services were suspended due to unsafe operating conditions.
Limited operations were resumed in mid-1982 but flights are still often
cancelled because of lack of equipment and navigational aids. The 1983-85
recovery program includes some funds for renewal of this equipment. Uganda
Airlines, a wholly owned parastatal, was formed in 1976 and became the sole
national carrier following the collapse of East African Airlines in 1977.
During the liberation war many of its aircraft and much of its equipment
were destroyed or damaged, including two B-707s. Since the war, the
airline has replaced aircraft and resumed international service to points
in Europe, the Gulf (Dubai) and regional centers in East Africa. The
airline's fleet now comprises two B-707--320C's, two F-27, one Beechcraft
King Air. The B-707s and the F-27 are used on scheduled services if and
when spare parts and fuel are available.



- 5 -
1.15      Traffic levels on Uganda Airlines are relatively low with air
cargo the most important revenue-earner. Both B-707 aircraft are
combi-versions carrying main-deck cargo. In 1982 in international services
47,496 passengers were carried (1981: 43,572) and 5,818 tons of cargo
(1981: 5,569 tons). Domestic flights are less important. The first six
months of 1983 only 14,469 domestic passengers were carried compared to
21,841 on international services. A main problem for the airline is that
low international passenger fares are reduced further through conversion at
official exchange rates, whereas a large proportion of costs are in foreign
currency only obtainable at less preferential exchange rates. Furthermore,
the airline lacks a suitable aircraft for regional routes within Africa gd
the B 707 aircraft will not meet noise limits in Europe after 1985.
Because UA is a large consumer of foreign exchange, the Government has
begun to look at it more critically and to identify possible improvements
in efficiency and cost reductions. The possibility of restructuring UA
into a more efficient, regionally oriented carrier has already been
discussed with the Government in the course of preparing a Transport Sector
Memorandum. These discussions will be continued as part of an overall
sector dialogue between the Bank and the Government.
Water Transport
1.16      Until recently, water transport was virtually non-existent in
Uganda. However, in the past, as part of the East African Railway system,
a rail-car ferry was operated on Lake Victoria linking Jinja in Uganda,
Kisumu in Kenya and Mwanza in Tanzania. Since the breakup of the EAC, a
Tanzanian ferry has operated intermittently as and when spare parts are
available providing Uganda with an alternate, albeit not fully reliable,
route to the Indian Ocean. To reduce its dependence on a single route for
international trade, Uganda placed orders in 1978 with a Belgian shipyard
to purchase three rail-car ferries to be operated on Lake Victoria between
Uganda and Tanzania with financing through a barter of Ugandan coffee. The
ships are being assembled at Port Bell near Kampala. The first ferry is
now operating with two others to follow in 1984 and 1985. This route is
economically inferior to the Kenyan route for most cargo, especially now
that proper interchange arrangements between Uganda and Kenya railways are
imminent. Nevertheless it does give a supplementary trade link which under
certain conditions can be useful. Government will be encouraged through
ongoing sector dialogue with the Bank to consider the best use of the two
ferries scheduled for 1984 and 1985 delivery.



- 6 -
C. Transport Sector Management
1.17      Two ministries share the main responsibility for the transport
sector, the Ministry of Transport (MOT) and the Ministry of Works (MOW).
Other ministries involved indirectly include: the Ministry of Commerce for
transit traffic; the Ministry of Co-operatives and Marketing through its
control over the Uganda Transport Cooperative Union (UTCU), the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Development (MPED) for overall investment planning;
and the Ministry of Finance for project financing and external aid. The
Ministry of Transport has a policy role in matters of road, rail, air and
water transport and is responsible for transport regulation, coordination,
control, tariffs, and road transport safety. It also oversees the
operations of Uganda Railways, Uganda Airlines, the Uganda Transport
Company (UTC) and People's Transport Company (PTC), the latter two being
road passenger transport parastatals. In addition, its transportation
department operates a fleet of 30 for-hire trucks as a public service for
customers not able to avail themselves of transport at competitive
tariffs. Although the ministry's organisational structure is adequate, it
seriously lacks qualified staff to perform its functions and is in serious
need of technical assistance in the short-term and recruitment and training
in the long term. The MOW is responsible for planning, constructing, and
maintaining highways and for airport operations. Its operations are
described in detail in Chapter II.
D. Planning and Coordination
1D18      Transport planning is supposed to be carried out by MOT in
cooperation with the MPED.  Because of the lack of clearly defined
objectives and manpower shortages, little has been done and most transport
agencies and parastatals have, by default, taken on a high degree of
autonomy without due regard to economic or intermodal considerations.
While the MPED should have the role of overall economic planning, sectoral
responsibilities are the responsibiity of the MOT. To adequately perform
its role, tne MOT should: (i) strengthen its staffing, and (ii) systematize
and intensify its sector knowledge through better data collection and
analysis. Eventually MOT should assess Uganda's medium and longer term
transport needs; prepare a comprehensive transport investment program; and
develop a transport strategy and policy framework. Some effort is being
made to achieve these objectives under the ongoing International Labor
Organ-zation (ILO)/United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project
which is providing technical assistance. Further assistance and training
support will 'be necessary to accomplish the above. The proposed project
includes two Transport Planners/Statisticians who will assist MOT to
continue establishing the required data base to carry out its functions.



- 7 -
Training c  local staff is being considered under a possible transport
sector training sub-project under the proposed Second Technical Assistance
Project.
1.19      To assist the MPED in its role of overall investment
co-ordinator, a UNDP-financed project with the Association as executing
agency is providing, among others, a transport specialist to advise
Government on transport matters, particularly with respect to the
rehabilitation of the sector. The terms of reference of the transport
specialist call for inter alia: (i) preparing a document on transport
policy reflecting the needs and priorities between modes; (ii) reviewing,
appraising and monitoring implementation of transport sector projects;
(iii) examining pricing and tariff policies for transport; and (iv)
training counterparts in the techniques and methods of transport planning
and project preparation. It is being considered by the Government that
this transport specialist later be transferred from MPED to MOT where his
involvement could be more direct.
1.20      Until the breakup of the East African Community, intermodal
coordination was centrally handled from the Community's headquarters and
operated relatively efficiently. However, following the EAC breakup and
consequent collapse of transport interchange agreements, Uganda embarked on
a series of investments designed to fill the void left in its transport
system without adequate consideration for intermodal coordination. The
only coordination occurs during the preparation of annual budgets but even
then the exchange of information and discussion of projects is inadequate.
An efficient coordination mechanism is clearly needed. This is being
addressed in part by the ILO/UNDP policy study and will be expanded by the
above mentioned restructuring of the UNDP-financed transport planning
technical assistance project. Further technical assistance to the MOT is
included in this project (Para. 1.18).
E. Transport Sector Investment
1.21      At independence in 1962, Uganda inherited a very good transport
system. The system was further improved during the decade 1962-1972 to
become one of the best in sub-saharan Africa. However, after a decade of
neglect and ultimate destruction during the liberation war in 1979, the
transport system was left in disarray. The Government reacted quickly to
the reduced transport capacity by investing simultaneously in all modes.The
Government purchased trucks, ferries, airplanes, railway locomotives and
rolling stock. In the transport sector, the two highest priority areas
are the rehabilitation of Uganda Railways so that it can move a greater
share of the import/export traffic and the maintenance of the national road



- 8 -
network. The Government has since concentrated on the rehabilitation of
the economy and identified priorities for each sector based on the most
critical needs.
1.22      Government has since then, with the assistance of a Commonwealth
team of experts, prepared a recovery program which concentrates on the
rehabilitation of the economy and identifies priorities for each sector.
In the transport sector the two highest priority areas are the
rehabilitation of URC and the maintenance of the national road network.
The overall cost of the recently revised recovery program is US$789.6
million, of which transport's share is US$78.6 million (10%). Other
sectors' shares are: 27% for agriculture, 35% for industry and tourism
(including commodity aid), 20% for social infrastructure and the remainder
for communications, minerals and energy. Given the short-term needs and
condition of the transport system, its share of the recovery program is
reasonable. The program includes US$48.6 million for roads (see Table
1.1), US$26.0 million for railways and Lake Victoria ports and US$4.0
million for airports. Except for the funds allocated to the Lake Victoria
ports (US$1.5 million), for which the economic justification is
questionable, the projects in the recovery program are sound and reflect
the priorities in the sector. The road transport program includes twelve
sub-programs of which seven have sources of external financing; funding for
the rest has been delayed pending the completion of the necessary
pre-investment studies. Two of the programs are being financed by the
European Economic Community (EEC) at a cost of US$7.2 million and the
second IDA reconstruction project US$2.2 million. Two of the road
sub-programs are aimed at improving road maintenance, one for the national
network and the other for rural and feeder roads which are maintained by
the local authorities; the former would be financed under the proposed
project.



-9 -
Table 1.1
Recovery Program 1983-85
US$ million
Railway                           1982/83          1983/84         1984/85
Rolling Stock                          -              3.9             4.4
Permanent way                          -              1.1             8.0
Telecom                                -               -              1.0
Diesel workshops                      1.2             0.4             2.0
Wagon workshop                         -                              0.5
Sheds                                  -               -              1.0
Mechanical handling equipment          -               _               1.0
Subtotal                        1.2             5.4             17.9
Roads
Kampala-Masaka                        1.7             2.5             1.7
Kampala-Jinja                          -               -              5.6
Lake Katwe road                       0.8             0.5             0.7
Malaba-Jinja                          0.8             1.4             1.7
Mbarara-Katunguru                              -                      2.1
Mbarara-Masaka                         -                              5.0
Mbarara-Rubaare                                        -              5.0
Road maintenance units                 -              1.2             5.1
Feeder road maintenance units         1.0             1.0             1.0
Other roads                            -               -              4.5
Subtotal                        4.3             6.6             32.4
Air Transport
Entebbe and Navaids                   0.5             1.2             2.3
Water Transport
Ferries                                -              0.6             0.6
Lake ports                             -               -              0.3
Subtotal                         -              0.6              0.9
Road Studies                           -               -              1.0
Kampala Streets                        -              1.3             3.0
Total Transport                 6.0             15.1            57.5



- 10 -
1.23      The railway recovery program includes the renewal and improvement
of permanent way, procurement of rolling stock, signalling and
telecommunications, workshop for carriage and wagon repairs, and
procurement of handling equipment. So far, the railway has received some
external assistance for permanent way improvement, telecommunications and
procurement of locomotives and rolling stock from France, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic. The EEC plans to
finance a study to examine the feasibility of realigning the line between
Jinja and Kampala, and discussions have been initiated with the UNDP on a
small technical assistance project to help the railway improve its
management and accounting procedures and to prepare a longer term
investment program.
1.24      The program for air transport involves the repair of essential
navigational and communications equipment at Entebbe airport which were
damaged during the liberation war. These are intended to improve safety of
flight operations and are reasonable. The proposed investments for the
improvement of Lake Victoria ports are questionable since they involve the
construction of a ferry terminal at Port Bell outside Kampala when one
already exists at Jinja.
1.25      In summary, although some of the individual transport components
of the recovery program require more careful scrutiny the program is
realistic as a framework for the rehabilitation of the transport sector.
F. Transport Policy and Issues
1.26      In addition to its role of planning and coordination for the
sector, the MOT is also responsible for setting transport policy. Although
no clear transport policy has been enunciated, a set of objectives can be
derived from the Government actions in the sector. Thus, for international
transport, the Government sees rail transport as the principal mode for
long distance freight movements. Moreover, given the current difficulties
experienced with Kenya in operating the corridor to Mombasa, it is seeking
to strengthen an existing alternative route, namely the Lake Victoria -
Tanzania (rail) corridor to Dar Es Salaam. Additionally, it has assigned
an active role to Uganda Airlines in international transport. On the
domestic front, policy objectives are considerably less articulate. For
example, the role of the parastatals vis-a-vis the private sector is not
clearly defined. Although the Goverment's general strategy is to bring the
transport system up to its previous level, it has been working concurrently
at improving competing modes road and rail services without a clear set of
priorities.



- 1i -
1.27      To help it formulate a comprehensive transport policy, the
Government requested the ILO to (i) review the current situation and
prepare an overall transport policy; and (ii) prepare a feasibility report
on needed surface transport investments. The ILO has agreed to exchange
views with the Association on its findings. This assignment will be
followed by a second phase which will involve the recruitment of a
transport development advisor for a period of eighteen months to assist the
Gc7ernment in the initial phase of the implementation of the policy adopted
and provide advice to the MOT on transport matters. In addition, the ILO
project includes 20 man-months for specialized consultancies such as
maintenance management, management information ystems design and
installation, supply and stores management and railways management
training. Concurrent with this assistance a statistical division should be
established in the MOT to coordinate the data gathering and analysis needed
to monitor the performance of the transport system. This will be addressed
under the proposed project (Para. 1.18).
1.28      Following the Commonwealth team of Experts (1979) the Association
carried out a transport sector review in 1982-83. A Transport Sector
Memorandum was prepared and sent to Government for comments and follow-up
in revising its transport sector policy. The major shortcomings and
problems whici, were identified in the TSM are:
(a) the need for extensive transport sector manpower development;
(b) the need to improve the data base in the MOT sector to permit
policy formulation and decision-making;
(c) the need to improve transport &dministration and policy making
including the definition of clearer relationships between '1PED,
MOW and the MOT; and
(d) the need to improve transport sector cooperation between Uganda
and Kenya, particularly as it applies to rail movements.
1.29      Need for a transport sector manpower training program:  Under the
East African Community, management of all transport entities was
headquartered in Kenya with only divisional or operating staff in Uganda.
After the EAC breakup, Uganda launched a number of transport operations,
including Uganda Railways and Uganda Airlines with very few experienced
management staff. The shortage was compounded by the exodus of most of the
experienced staff during the 1972-79 period. A comprehensive manpower
survey for the transport sector should be carried out with the view of
preparing a possible future technical assistance project. Discussions are
being undertaken on the possibility of carrying out this survey under the
proposed Second Technical Assistance Project. The project includes
technical asslstance for manpower planning for highways (Para. 2.23).



- 12 -
1.30      Need to set up transport data gathering system:  The weak
transport data base is one of the inhibiting factors in transport policy
formulation and sector performance analysis. The proposed project will
include 48 man-months of technical assistance to help the MOT establish a
transport data unit to supplement to the technical assistance being
provided by the ILO (Para. 1.18).
1.31      Need to clarify and improve transport management:  As mentioned
earlier, one of the major problems of the Uganda transport sector is the
lack of planning and coordination within the sector and between transport
and other productive sectors. The transport sector specialist in MPED
should help alleviate the problem (Para. 1.19).
1.32      Need to improve transport coordination between Kenya and Uganda:
Being a landlocked country, Uganda suffers from having to transit through
other countries for its access to the sea. Coordination between Uganda and
Kenya is particularly critical to the functionning of Uganda's external
transport system, especially rail. In addition, Uganda serves as a transit
route for Rwanda, Burundi, parts of Zaire and southern Sudan. The
effective utilization of the rail system between Kenya and Uganda has so
far been hampered by lengthly customs procedures, discriminatory charges
and the strong trucking lobby in Kenya. In addition, the heavy trucks used
in the international road operations are seriously damaging roads in both
countries. Discussions on possible solutions have progressed very well
recently and there appears a better chance than ever to resolve this
problem.
G. Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector
1.33      The Association has helped finance two highway projects in
Uganda. The first (Credit 108-UG, US$5.0 million, 1967) provided for
construction to paved standard of the Mbarara-Katunguru road (113 km),
construction of several small agricutural and feeder roads, and detailed
engineering of 740 km of main and feeder roads. According to a Bank audit
on this project (No. 1623), the main road construction was of poor quality
as a result of the contractor's inefficient organization and workmanship,
and the actual rate of return on this investment was estimated at 8% to
11%, although because of lack of adequate maintenance, the returns may even
be lower.
1.34      The second Highway Project (Credit 164-UG, US$11.6 million,
1969), helped finance: (a) construction or reconstruction of 665 km of
primary, secondary and feeder roads engineered under the previous project;
(b) a highway investment, maintenance and organization study; (c)
feasibility studies and detailed engineering of about 400 km of roads
selected from among those identified in (b) above, and (d) technical



- 13 -
assistance to the MOW. The project was completed in 1980. Project
implementation was hampered, especially after 1975, by a lack of qualified
staff, and high prices for all purchased goods due to shortages and
parallel market operations. An audit has not been carried out due to the
limited data; a limited completion note has been prepared.
1.35      The 1972 highway study financed under Credit 164-UG was
redone in 1982-83 through a Highway Maintenance and Organization Study
(HMOS) carried out with funds under the First Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1077-UG). In addition, the transport sector has been assisted by
other credits for rehabilitation such as in particular the Second
Reconstruction Project (Credit 1252-UG) which provided funds to MOT and MOW
as well as some of the parastatals in the transport sector.
1.36      The Bank has also made three loans totalling US$104.4 million to
the now defunct East African Railways Corporation to modernize and develop
railways in the community (Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda). All have been
disbursed and a mediation exercise is still ongoing to allocate assets and
liabilities of EARC among member states.



- 14 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01       The highway system of Uganda is in the form of a semi-circle
with Kampala as its center and the circumference broadly following the
international boundaries of the country (Map IBRD 17320). The system is
supported by a network of radials emanating from Kampala towards the
circumference. Secondary and tertiary roads connect these radials with one
another. The network totals 27,540 km of roads of which 7,540 km forming
the classified road network are maintained by the MOW. The roads
maintained by the MOW are classified into three categories: primary,
secondary and tertiary. In general, primary roads are important national
and international roads which connect administrative centers with one
another and with neighboring countries. Secondary roads are either
inter-district roads or roads linking the primary road network with other
centers of economic activity. Tertiary roads serve local population
centers and agricultural areas, and connect them with other roads in the
network. The classified road network comprises 1,940 km of bituminized
roads and 5,600 km of gravel roads. A breakdown for the 7,540 km network
is shown below.
Table 2.1
Road Network
Primary     Secondary      Tertiary      All
Roads        Roads          Roads      Roads      Percentage
Bitumen     1,630            90           220       1,940          26
Gravel      2,220         1,745         1,635       5,600          74
Total     3,850         1,835         1,855       7,540         100
The remaining about 20,000 km of the road system constitutes the feeder
network, consisting mostly of un-engineered earth/gravel roads, and is the
responsibility of local Governments. No reliable inventory exists for the
feeder road network.



- 15 -
2.02      The coverage of the road network is adequate for the country's
needs, however, the -~ondition of the roads has deteriorated for want of
proper maintenance during the past decade (Para. 2.28).
B. Road Use
2.03      The country's total vehicle fleet is estimated at about 20,000
four-wheel vehicles, of which 12,500 are light vehicles and 7,500 are
commercial vehicles (3,400 utility, 600 buses and 3,500 heavy trucks). The
composition of the vehicle fleet is shown in Annex 1. The heavy trucks are
the most important as they carry about 75% of the freight traffic. The
vehicle fleet has been severely depleted due to lack of maintenance and to
destruction and looting during the liberation of the country. The
reduction numbers was most severe for cars and heavy commercial
vehicles: from 1971 to 1982, the number of cars fell from 23,771 to 9,821
and heavy trucks from 6,795 to 3,529. Foreign exchange shortages have
further exacerbated the problem by severely restricting the supply of spare
parts.
2.04      Up to 1972 the Ministry of Works maintained reliable traffic
counts for all sections of the classified road network. Annual records
were kept for over 240 road sections, including primary, secondary and
tertiary roads. However, from 1973 until 1982 only a few scattered traffic
counts were undertaken and the records of these were lost during the
liberation war. At negotiations agreement was reached with Government that
the annual traffic counts will be resumed starting not later than January
1, 1985 (Para. 5.01(b)).
2.05      In 1982 the MOW undertook a traffic counting program as a basis
for the HMOS (para. 1.35) carried out by consultants. Average daily
recorded traffic ranges from a high of about 2,000 vehicles on the paved
roads leading into Kampala to as low as 30 vehicles on tertiary roads.
Consultants estimate that traffic levels throughout the country in 1982
were only 50% of the levels of the 1972 study reflecting the substantial
decline in the vehicle fleet, the frequent shortages of gasoline and diesel
fuel and the economic collapse during the 1970s.
2.06      The consumption of motor vehicle fuel in 1981 stood at 84,000
tons, representing only 43% of the 1972 consumption level. Retail prices
for motor fuels are set by Government and are adjusted periodically to
reflect any changes in the border prices of the various products. The
breakdown of the retail price of gasoline and diesel fuel are shown below:



- 16 -
Table 2.2
Fuel Prices (April 1983) U.Sh./litre
Super                              Auto
Gasoline                            Diesel
CIF Malaba                  50.99                              41.76
Local Transport              1.81                               1.37
Landed Cost                 52.80                              43.13
Customs Duty                25.82                              11.88
Company Margin              14.89                              12.17
Sub-total                  93.51                               67.18
Sales Tax                  51.49                               17.82
Exdepot price              145.00                              85.00
Dealer Margin                5.00                               5.00
Retail Price               150.00                              90.00
As shown in the above table, the tax differential between diesel and
gasoline fuels is large and reflects the Government's desire to use
gasoline taxation as a source of general government revenue. The fuel
prices are adjusted with changes in exchange rates. The pump price for
gasoline has well exceeded the international price at all relevant exchange
rates, whereas the prices of diesel has been slightly below the import
parity prices using a shadow exchange rate (i.e. the relevant opportunity
cost). In a recent development this policy has now changed so that diesel
prices are also now clearly above the import parity prices.
C. The Road Transport Industry
Freight Transport
2.07      There are very few large freight transport operators in Uganda;
the industry is dominated by small owner/operators with less than three
trucks each. These carriers supply the bulk of the freight transport
capacity but face the same problems as the rest of the sector such as lack
of spare parts or repair facilities. The IDA Second Reconstruction Credit
is providing some of the resources to remedy the situation and the opening



- 17 -
up of the foreign exchange market also will provide adequate support for
the most urgent needs.
2.08      While there once existed a flourishing road transport industry in
Uganda, the substantially reduced economic activity, and the vehicle fleet
decimation which followed the liberation war have severely reduced the
number and size of carriers. After the liberation war, the Government
purchased about 600 trucks to primarily transport coffee. Most of these
vehicles were sold to transport co-operatives involved in coffee transport
from the farms to the central processing plant in Kampala. While coffee is
transported as a priority by these co-ops, the vehicles are also used on a
for-hire basis for other types of cargo as well.
2.09      The major freight transporter in the country is the Uganda
Transport Cooperative Union (UTCU), a fully autonomous cooperative under
the umbrella of the Ministry of Cooperatives. UTCU operates about 150
vehicles ranging in size from 8 to 18 tons in carrying capacity.
Availability rate is acceptably high at about 70%. The UTCU is owned by 30
regional co-op unions which are its shareholders. The regional co-ops in
turn are owned by individual farmers set up as district unions. The UTCU
was set up mainly to provide transport for its members but it also acts as
a for-hire carrier to others. Its members are provided transport at cost
while others are provided at profit. UTCU's main role is to move coffee
from the farms to the Coffee Marketing Board's central processing plant in
Kampala but lately it has moved some coffee from Kampala to Mombasa. UTCU
is building a new centralized maintenance workshop in Kampala and also has
three repair workshops up-country for minor work.
2.10      Part of the truck fleet originally purchased by Government was
distributed to various marketing boards including the Coffee Marketing
Board, the Cotton Marketing Board and the Produce Marketing Board. Most of
the vehicles were ordered without due consideration to appropriate type or
size and intended use. The trucks are for example often too large to be
operated on secondary or feeder roads resulting in high ton/km costs and
the operation of these vehicles is not well-coordinated resulting in a high
ratio of empty trips. Since these vehicles are now some years old and
mostly used on main roads gradual vehicle replacement will improve the
operation.
Passenger Transport
2.11      Public passenger services are provided by two parastatal
organizations, the Uganda Transport Company (UTC) and People's Transport
Company (PTC), under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport. UTC,
which provides bus service in Kampala and also on some routes in Western



- 18 -
and Southern Uganda has a fleet of about 145 buses with an availability
rate of only about 30%, partly due to lack of spare parts. PTC
headquartered in Jinja, operates on routes in Eastern and Northern regions
with a fleet of about 50 buses.
2.12      In addition to the two major parastatals, there are a number of
private bus companies licensed to operate on specific routes. Many of
these carriers compete directly with the two parastatals, but the private
carriers tariffs charge two to three times the fares charged by UTC and
PTC. Essentially these are either operators of regular buses or of small
minibuses, the latter charging the highest fares. There is a serious
shortage of public passenger transport in Uganda, and in Kampala passengers
often have to wait more than one hour for a bus. Thus the majority of
workers in the Central Business District walk to work. The IDA Second
Reconstruction Credit will provide some resources also for spare parts of
buses and some of the vehicle shortages can be alleviated.
Transport Regulation
2.13      The Road Traffic and Safety Act of 1970 empowered the Government
to regulate the road transport industry as necessary from an operational,
economic and safety point of view. This power has so far not been
exercised in any adverse manner for freight transport. The MOT publishes a
tariff but it is only intended as a guideline for carriers. The transport
of passengers is more strictly regulated both in terms of routes and
tariffs. Carriers must apply to the Transport Licensing Board for
permission to operate on a specific route. The applications are publicly
announced and hearings are held. Carriers already providing service on the
route in question can oppose the application and the Board decides whether
or not public convenience and necessity dictates that a new carrier should
be allowed to operate. The tariffs charged by UTC and PTC are regulated by
the Ministry of Transport. The current permissible fare is USh 2.50 per
passenger/km (minimum USh 30) irrespective of terrain and road surface.
Private carriers are only provided with an indicative rate.
2.14      Regulated rates charged by UTC and PTC are non-remunerative and
barely cover out of pocket expenses. No allocation is made for equipment
replacement. As a result, the service levels have deteriorated
substantially and the public suffers from reduced transport availability.
If the Government wishes to provide a subsidized public passenger service,
the parastatal companies should be encouraged to restructure their
operations on a commercial basis with Government providing a direct
operating subsidy. These points were discussed with Government at the time
of the Transport Sector Review. The IDA-financed parastatal accounting
study and ILO technical assistance are also going to suggest measures for
improvement. Agreements were reached at negotiations that the accounting



- 19 -
study for parastatal corporations will begin not later than December 31,
1984 and, that based on the study recommendations the Government shall
submit to the Association by June 30, 1985, its proposals concerning tariff
levels for passenger transport. After review of its proposals by the
Association, the Government shall establish passenger tariffs having due
regard to any comments made by the Association (Para. 5.01(c)).
D. Traffic       ations and    et
2.15      Despite its power to do so the MOT had not had to regulate
vehicle weight, dimensions, inspections, licensing and safety because until
the breakup of the East African Community in 1977, the control of road
vehicles was not a problem since most heavy traffic moved by rail.
However, with the inefficiency of Uganda -ailways and the diversion of
traffic to the roads, the situation has changed drastically and the size
and axle loadings of heavy vehicles is having a detrimental effect on the
roads. The Government is in the process of drafting new traffic and safety
legislation and expects to have it submitted to the National Assembly
shortly. This legislation would, among others, enact into law governing
vehicle size, weight (10 tons axle-load) dimensions and road safety.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that Government will take all
measures necessary to ensure that such regulations will be enforced not
later than December 31, 1984 (Para. 5001(d)).
E. Administration
2.16      MOW is responsfible for planning, construction and maintenance of
classified road network while the local Governments are responsible for the
rest. The MOW is divided into four divisions: Technical Division, Finance
and Administration Division, Highway Division and Stores Division (See
Chart I). The Technical Division (TD) is composed of four sections: Road
Maintenance, Training, Materials Laboratory and Mechanical; the Highway
Division comprises three sections: Planning, Design, and Construction.
The MOW organization though understaffed (Para. 2.21) is structurally
sound.
2.17      The Road Maintenance Section of the TD is responsible for upkeep
and maintenance of roads. Responsibility for maintenance of the road
network is divided into four geographical areas, each headed by an Area
Engineer. Each area in turn is divided into a number of maintenance
districts; there are currently 21 districts performing road maintenance
tasks. Routine maintenance is done by work gangs (about 5 men), each
covering an average of 8 km of road, under the supervision of headmen who



- 20 -
report to the road overseer; periodic maintenance (resealing/regravelling)
is done with the help of special crews under inspectors of work/district
engineers. At the headquarters level, the Chief Road Maintenance Engineer
(CRME) who heads the Road Maintenance Section is assisted by three senior
executive engineers, one for the Eastern and Central Areas, one for the
Northern and Western Areas, and one for special projects. The flow of
responsibility for road maintenance from the CRME to the work gang is shown
in Chart II.
2.18      The Mechanical Section is responsible for the repair and
maintenance of vehicles and plant of all Government ministries/departments,
and is headed by a Chief Mechanical Engineer located at the central
Workshop in Kampala. Under the central workshop there are four Area
workshops (at Kampala, Mbale, Gulu and Fort Portal) and twelve district
workshops. While the central and area workshops handle major
overhauls/repairs for vehicles and plant, the district workshops take care
of light repairs and routine servicing. The central workshop, in addition,
undertakes rebuilding of engines, transmissions and other equipment
components. About 70% of overall workload in MOW workshops relates to road
maintenance vehicles and plant. However, as a result of damage to workshop
structures, and the looting caused during the 1979 war, the workshops do
not currently have facilities to adequately repair and maintain MOW's
equipment. About 60% of the workshop equipment was damaged beyond repair
and over 75% of the mechanic's hand tools and bench mounted equipment were
completely or partially looted. The project will help in replacing the
damaged or looted equipment and tools and provide additional items to
upgrade the maintenance and repair capability of MOW workshops. Besides,
it will assist in reconstruction/repair of workshop structures (Paras.
3.07 & 3.09).
2.19      The MOW has a well equipped material testing laboratory located
outside of Kampala. The Laboratory not only provides testing services for
the MOW, but also provides such services to other Government agencies and
private firms on a charge basis. The testing is divided into sections for
chemistry, soils, bitumen, concrete, and field investigations and quality
control. The laboratory received equipment and supplies estimated at over
US$0.2 million after the war with assistance from the EEC.
F. Staffing & Training
2.20      MOW staff are divided into two categories, civil servants and
group employees (casual workers). The cutoff between the two categories is
at the level of road overseer; Road Overseer Grade I and above are civil
service employees, while Road Overseer Grade II and below are group
employees.



- 21 -
2.21      The MOW organization is understaffed; average Ministry-wide
vacancy rate for civil servant positions is around 50%. The vacancy rate
is particularly high in the Design, Training and Road Maintenance
Sections. Based on the results of the Highway Maintenance and Organization
Study (HMOS) carried out by Consultants Louis Berger International Inc.
(USA), the vacancy rate is the highest for the upper mid-range positions
where core experience is crucial; of the 226 such positions, some 145 (64%)
are currently vacant. This has resulted in the designation of individuals
to serve in acting positions or covering two positions; the majority of
personnel lack the qualifications and experience necessary for efficient
task performance. The vacancy rate for group employees, however, is low,
around 12%.
2.22      In view of the budgetary constraints under which Government is
currently functioning, there is a general embargo on filling vacant posts,
however, they can be filled with prior Government approval if properly
qualified individuals are available. But, the low salary scales often make
it difficult to recruit qualified personnel. Given the budget limitations
the issue of low level of salaries of staff in Uganda can only be addressed
over the medium term within the overall government administrative policy.
In the meantime, the impact of the staffing problem in road maintenance
will be alleviated by carrying out all periodic maintenance included in the
project by contract (Para. 2.30) and by providing technical assistance to
assist with road maintenance planning and operations (Para. 3.14).
2.23      The Training Section of the TD is responsible for training
activities of the MOW. In the past the MOW's Road Maintenance Training
Center (RMTC) at Kyambogo, just outside Kampala, provided class-room and
on-the-job training to road maintenance personnel (road inspectors,
overseers and headmen); active curricula were available to train road
maintenance personnel. Separate facilities within the central workshop
were used for classroom instruction, coordinated with on-the-job training,
of machanical staff (foremen, plant operators, mechanics, etc.). However,
training facilities and training aids both at the RMTC and the central
workshop were either damaged or looted during the war, and have not been
restored. The RMTC is largely inactive currently; the last course given at
the Center was in March 1982. The skeleton staff, comprising an acting
principal and three instructors, assigned to the RMTC hold infrequent
seminars for MOW staff. The project will help in re-establishing the
training facilities at the RMTC as well as central workshop and will
include technical assistance to assist in reviewing staff inventories
assessing manpower requirements and their training needs and organizing and
carrying out a comprehensive training program for staff (Paras. 3.10 &
3.15).



- 22 -
2.24      The MOW has also drawn on the resources of external facilities
such as the Makerere University (MU) and Uganda Technical College (UTC) for
training its staff. MU offers courses leading to Bachelor's degree in
civil, electrical and mechanical engineering; the yearly intake of students
varies from 60 to 65. In 1982-83, out of the 175 candidates (upper
secondary school leavers) who applied, 65 were selected for admission to
the program. The UTC offers courses leading to Ordinary Diploma/Higher
Diploma in civil, electrical and mechanical engineering; in 1982-83, some
469 students were receiving technician/higher technician level training at
the institution. The UTC also offers a technical teacher training course,
and has residential facilities for about 600 students. During 1976-80, MOW
sponsored 12 staff for Ordinary/Higher Diploma Course in civil engineering
at the UTC; 7 staff are currently receiving training.
2.25      Vocational training is provided by the four vocational training
institutes/centers run by the Directorate of Industrial Training under
Ministry of Labor. The Vocational Training Institute, Nakawa and the
Vocational Training Center, Lugogo are located just outside Kampala, while
the other two namely (i) the YMCA vocational Training Center; and (ii) the
Jinja Vocational Training Center are located at Jinja, which has the
largest concentration of manufacturing industry in the country. The
Vocational Training Institute, Nakawa and the Vocational Training
center, Lugogo are offering, with the assistance of ILO, accelerated
training program of 40-week duration to Secondary school leavers; the
yearly in take of students is around 60. Besides, MU students receive
their practical training at these institutes. The courses offered are
automobile repairing, machine fitting and assembly, welding and
fabrication, carpentry, brick laying, electrical installation, etc. The
Jinja Vocational Training Center built under the Second Education Project
(Credit 258-UG) has a planned capacity of 680 students, and is expected to
open shortly. Also, there are 5 technical secondary schools (Kisubi, near
Entebbe; Kichwamba, near Fort Portal; Masaka; Mbale; and Lira) providing
craftsman/master craftsman training to secondary school leavers of which
one at Masaka is inactive currently. The yearly intake of students at
Kisubi Technical Secondary School is 250, and there are residential
facilities for 450 students.
2.26      In summary, the training facilities in the country are adequate
in size for foreseeable needs of MOW but needs improvement in the quality
of training in some cases. The engineer and technician level training is
provided by the MU and UTC respectively while there are a number of
vocational training institutes/centers and technical secondary schools in
the country offering craftsman training in various fields.



- 23 -
2.27      The Chief Training Engineer is currently performing the functions
of one of the Deputy Engineers-in-Chief in addition to his own duties,
assised by a recently recruited training assistant. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that the Government shall, by not later than December 31,
1984, fill the position of Deputy Engineer-in-Chief within MOW with a
qualified and experienced person and keep such position and the position of
Chief Training Engineer filled at all times with suitably qualified and
experienced persons. (Para. 5.01(e)).
G. Maintenance
2.28      MOW's road maintenance organization is basically sound, but
due to severe staff shortages and lack of adequate equipment, coupled with
paucity of funds, planning and coordination are virtually non-existent; the
quantity and quality of road maintenance is far from satisfactory. Routine
maintenance is carried out irregularly. Because of the low salaries, the
road gangs put in two or three hours of work a day and then engage in other
activities to supplement their income the remainder of the day; their
output varies between 20-40% of the expected output. Periodic maintenance
too has not been undertaken on a meaningful basis since 1973; only about
165 km out of the 1,940 km (8.5%) of paved road were resealed and 1,180 km
out of the 5,600 km (21%) of gravel roads were regravelled in the last ten
years. Due to the lack of proper maintenance varying degrees of
deterioration of riding surfaces, shoulders and roadside drainage are
evident throughout the paved and unpaved road network. The more heavily
trafficked roads show pronounced deterioration; paved roads have developed
deep potholes and surface cracks, besides extensive edge ravelling and skin
failures, and in the worst cases they require major rehabilitation. Most
gravel roads have completely lost their gravel and have reverted to earth
roads.
2X29      MOW's ability to maintain roads is severely constrained by lack
of equipment, trained manpower and funds. Much of the existing MOW's
equipment and plant are old and unserviceable; of the 229 items, 131 (57%)
are unserviceable. The MOW's workshops suffer from lack of proper
equipment and tools, and shortage of properly qualified staff and trained
mechanics, and spare parts. As a consequence, equipment availability for
road maintenance is very low. Furthermore, due to the shortage of foreign
exchange, fuel and bitumen required for road maintenance operations are not
easily obtainable.
2.30      Because of the above, road maintenance has been virtually
neglected resulting in the build-up of a huge backlog of work. The project
includes part of a seven-year program identified by Consultants based on



- 24 -
the HMOS (Para. 1.35), to improve maintenance of the classified road
network. Because of the lack of adequate staff and physical resources in
MOW, the periodic maintenance included in the project will be carried out
by contract while routine road maintenance operations will be carried out
by force account with the assistance of technical assistance staff.
2.31      As a basis for the HMOS, the MOW undertook a traffic counting
program and an inventory of the road network. The consultants verified
Government's inventory data and drew up a road maintenance program
accounting for the different traffic levels served and existing road
conditions. The program drawn by the consultants has been found to be
generally satisfactory.
2.32      The results of the HMOS showed that about 73% of the road network
is in a condition requiring minor rehabilitation/maintenance; the rest is
in need of major rehabilitation and pavement strengthening. Engineering
investigations for four of the primary road sections namely: (i)
Kampala-Jinja; (ii) Mbarara-Katunguru; (iii) Masaka-Mbarara; and (iv)
Mbarara-Rubaare requiring pavement rehabilitation and strengthening are
underway with funds under the First Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1077-UG). A follow-up project could include these works. The four road
sections are included in the Government's Recovery Programme 1983-85
(Para. 1.22).
R. Planning and Financing of Investbents
2.33      In principle, short and long-term planning in the road sub-sector
is carried out by the MOW's Highway Planning Section in cooperation with
the MOT and the MPED. In practice, however, the MOW has dealt directly
with the MPED which has taken on the task of sectoral coordination in the
preparation and execution of the Government's recoveryprogram as well as
identifying and arranging the necessary financing. The initial recovery
program for the period 1982-1984 has now become a "rolling plan" to be
reviewed annually. Until the recovery is clearly in hand, no other medium
or long- term plans are anticipated and the Highway Planning Section is
performing adequately.
2.34      Road maintenance is financed from the recurrent budget while
capital investments are financed from a separate budget which comes mainly
from external sources. Therefore, funds for new construction do not
directly compete with other sectors for scarce local funds. The



- 25 -
expenditure on road maintenance increased from U Sh. 318.4 million (US$3.7
million equivalent)l! in FY 1982 to U Sh. 455.1 million (US$4.4 million
equivalent)2/ in FY 1983. The amount allocated for FY 1984 is U Sh. 1,356
million (UST5.4 million equivalent). A major portion of the amount
allocated is spent on the wages of staff who are not fully utilized for
lack of road maintenance equipment and the difficulty in obtaining spare
parts, fuel and bitumen. Under the project the estimated recurrent
expenditure for routine maintenance of the classified road network amounts
to U Sh 1,500 million (US$ 6.0 million equivalent) in 1983 prices. At
negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that such funds will be
provided for FY 1985-1987 and that not later than four months before the
beginning of each fiscal year the Government shall review with the
Association the Budgetary requirements and the proposed budgetary
allocation for road maintenance (Para. 5.01(f)). Further, in order that
provision be made for financing road maintenance after project
implementation, the Government and the Association will exchange views by
June 30, 1987 on the estimated funds required for the next three years; the
Government will take measures necessary to ensure that such funds will be
available to MOW as and when needed (Para. 5.01(g)).
2.35      Revenues from road user charges are estimated to have been USh
7.65 billion (about US$90.0 million) in 1981. This far exceeds what was
spent on both construction and maintenance of roads and is substantially
more than would be required to properly maintain the road network. Import
duties and sales taxes from transport equipment and spare parts totalled
USh 232 million in 1981 and annual license fees, tolls and freight taxes
amounted to USh 318 million. Taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel of US$0.89
and US$0.30 per litre, respectively, produced revenues of USh 7.10 billion
in 1981, or approximately 93% of all road user revenues. The general level
of road user charges is much higher than the road maintenance and
rehabilitation needs due to the government's need for general budgetary
support.
1/ US$1.0 = U Sh. 85.15 (December 1981)
2/ US$1.0 = U Sh 104.30 (December 1982)



- 26 -
I. Engineering and Construction
2.36      The Design Section of the MOW carries out minor road and bridge
design including field investigations, while all economic feasibility and
detailed engineering studies for major projects are done by foreign
consultants. There are some local private consultants in the country, but
they are generally involved with structural design. The established
general standards and specifications for roads are acceptable.
2.37      Major construction works financed by outside agencies are awarded
following prequalification and international competitive bidding, and are
supervised by foreign consultants. In the past there had been local firms
who had the capability to execute road works; the MOW maintained a roster
of contracting firms with a classification based on the value of works for
which they were eligible to bid, but this system is no longer in force. At
present, works awarded to local firms are mostly based on unit rates
approved by Central Tender Board on the basis of quotations obtained from
contractors each year.  Much like other sectors, the road construction
industry in Uganda is suffering the consequences of a decade of disruptions
in economic activity, and is currently at 10-20% of the pre-1974 capacity.
There are some 10 medium-sized and a number of small local contractors who
have been engaged in minor road upgrading and periodic maintenance works;
but they lack proper equipment, management expertise and trained manpower
to perform effectively and profitably. Government, therefore, has to rely
on the services of foreign contractors even for resealing/regravelling
operations requiring the use of a combination of labor and equipment. The
project therefore includes a Pilot Program for the development of local
construction industry (Para. 3.18).



- 27 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) improve the maintenance of the country's rapidly deteriorating
classified road network;
(ii)  help train MOW's road maintenance personnel and to re-establish
MOW's capability for road maintenance;
(iii) help develop local construction industry;
(vi)  improve country's transport sector management; and
(v) help enforce vehicle weight and traffic safety reguLations.
B. Description
3.02      The project comprises:
(i) a program to improve maintenance of the country's classified road
network;
(ii)  technical assistance to MOW and MOT;
(iii)  a pilot program for the development of local constluction
industry; and
(iv)  preparation of future road maintenance program.
Road Maintenance Program
3.03      The program to be implemented over a 4-year period (1984-87) will
help improve routine maintenance of the classified road network (7,540 km)
as well as periodic maintenance of about 600 km of bitumen-surfaced roads
and about 1,000 km of gravel roads that are in urgent need o.E resealing/
regravelling; the roads were identified by the consultants and MOW with the
assistance of the Association staff, based on the results of the HMOS. The
resealing/regravelling of roads will be carried out in two pnases, the



- 28 -
first phase during 1985-86 and the second phase during 1986-87. The list
of roads to be resealed/regravelled is shown in Annex 2. The consultants
to be employed for preparing bidding documents will review the selected
roads and establish priorities. The road resealing work would include
repairs to pavement edges, potholes and surface cracks, besides repairs to
base/sub-base at failed locations. In addition, the road shoulders will be
repaired/reconstructed and drainage improved.
3.04      To assist in carrying out the program, the project provides for:
engagement of contractors for periodic maintenance of roads; (b)
procurement of road maintenance equipment, including a supply of spare
parts for routine road maintenance; (c) procurement of spare parts for
rehabilitation of existing equipment; (d) procurement of workshop equipment
and tools; (e) improvement to Road Maintenance Training Center and MOW
workshops; (f) procurement of training equipment; (g) supply of fuel and
bitumen; and (h) consultant services.
Road Maintenance Equipment
and Spare Parts
3.05      The maintenance of the classified road network in Uganda suffers
from lack of adequate equipment and poor facilities for their repair and
maintenance; much of the MOW's existing equipment is old and unserviceable
(Para. 2.29). The project provides for the procurement of new equipment
and an initial stock of spare parts to help improve MOW's capability for
routine road maintenance. It also provides for the procurement of spare
parts for rehabilitation of existing equipment. The list of new equipment
to be purchased (Annex 3) was defined by the consultants and MOW with the
assistance of Association staff based on the results of the HMOS.
3.06      Routine maintenance crews to be established under the project
will be of six types: Pavement Repair, Heavy Grading, Light Grading,
General Labor, Traffic Service and Major Maintenance. Pavement repair
crews (18) will be responsible for patching potholes and repairing edge
ravelling and skin failures; the heavy grading crews (8) and light grading
crews (10) will carry out grading operations on gravel roads as well as on
shoulders of paved roads; general labor crews (35) will be responsible for
maintaining culverts and roadside ditches, and the cutting of grass, etc;
traffic service crews (21) will carry out minor repairs to road furniture,
structures, etc.; and major maintenance crews (4) will be responsible for
the repair of base, sub-base, subgrade or shoulders where the extent of
needed repairs exceeds the capacity of the general labor crews. The above,
with the exception of heavy and light grading crews, will utilize labor-
intensive or intermediate technology, depending on the nature of work.



- 29 -
Workshop Equipment and Tools
3.07      MOW workshops lack adequate equipment and tools to rapair and
maintain MOW's equipment (Paras. 2.18). The project provides for the
procurement of supplementary workshop equipment and tools to upgrade the
maintenance and repair capability of MOW's Central, area and district
workshops; it includes, inter alia, lubrication units for each of these
workshops. Itemized lists of equipment and tools are shown in the HMOS,
Final Report (June 1983). These were agreed between MOW and the
Association staff.
Improvement to Road Maintenance
Training Center (RNTC)
3.08      The existing facilities at the RMTC campus (two classroom
buildings for a total of 90 students, but only residential facilities for
36 students and mess facilities for 60 students) need to be enlarged in
order to meet the training needs of road maintenance staff foi a projected
program demand of 80-85 students. The project provides for the
construction of additional facilities namely, a lecture hall, 2
dormitories, a dining hall, a kitchen, and 4 staff houses. At negotiations
agreement was reached with the Government that, by August 31, 1984, it will
submit to the Association for its review plans and construction details of
additional facilities to be provided at the RMTC campus (Para, 5.01 (h)).
Improvement to MOW Workshops
3.09      MOW workshops suffered extensive damage during the 1979 war; the
damages incurred range from minor to major repairs; in some cases complete
reconstruction of the structures is needed. The project provides for the
needed repair/reconstruction of the central workshop, area workshops (Fort
Portal, Gulu, Mbale) and district workshops (Masaka, Jinja, E-atebbe,
Soroti, Moroto, Lira, Arua, Masindi, Kasese, Kabale, Mbarara). It also
includes construction of two classroom structures at the central workshop.
At negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that, by August
31, 1984, it will submit to the Association for its review plans and
construction details of these workshops and the classroom structures at the
central workshop (Para. 5.01 (i)).



- 30 -
Training Equipment
3.10      The training equipment at both the RMTC and central workshop were
either damaged or looted during the war and have not been restored (Para.
2.23). The project will assist in replacing the damaged or looted
equipment and provide supplementary items to upgrade training facilities
for staff. Itemized lists of training equipment are shown in HMOS, Final
Report (June 1983). These were agreed between MOW and the Association
staff.
Fuel and Bitumen
3.11      Because of the severe shortage of foreign exchange in the
country, the fuel and bitumen required for road maintenance operations are
not easily obtainable (Para. 2.29). The project therefore includes supply
of diesel fuel, gasoline and 4,100 tons of bitumen for routine road
maintenance for about three years.
Consultant Services
3.12      Consultants will be engaged to assist Government in:
(i) preparation of bidding documents for resealing/regravelling of
roads;
(ii)  supervision of road resealing/regravelling;
(iii) preparation of bidding documents for road maintenance and
workshop equipment, and tools;
(iv)  technical assistance (Paras 3.14 - 3.16); and
(v) preparation of future road maintenance program (Para. 3.17).
3.13      In order not to delay the project the preparation of bidding
documents for (i) and (iii) above will commence before Credit effectiveness
(See Project Implementation Schedule, Chart III). Employment of
Consultants for the purpose will be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Para. 5.02(a)).



- 31 -
Technical Assistance
3.14      MOW's road maintenance organization suffers from severe shortage
of staff; the majority of personnel lack the qualifications and experience
necessary for efficient task performance. To help alleviate staffing
shortage and to improve MOW's road maintenance planning, organization and
operations the project provides for 186 man-months of technical assistance
comprising:
No.    Man-months
Senior Highway Engineer (Team Leader)    1           ,O
Road Maintenance Engineer                  I         ;o
Road Maintenance Superintendent            1         iO
Equipment Maintenance Engineer             1         24
Mechanical Superintendent                  1         24
Training Instructor (Civil)                1         24
Training Instructor (Mech)                 1         ,24
Total  186
The project also includes 2 Transport Planners/Statisticians for 24 months
each to assist MOT in establishing its transport data base (Para. 1.18).
3.15      As for the technical assistance to MOW, the road maintenance
engineer will assist and advise the Chief Road Maintenance Engineer on all
aspects of highway maintenance planning, organization and operations; the
equipment maintenance engineer will assist and advise the Chief Mechanical
Engineer on matters concerning fleet management, workshop management and
control; the road maintenance superintendent and mechanical superintendent
will assist in establishing training production units and carrying out
on-the-job training of staff; the two training instructors will
develop specific courses of instruction, prepare curricula and impart
on-the-job and classroom instruction to staff. The senior highway engineer
(team leader) will, among other things, coordinate the work of the
technical assistance team and will assist in reviewing staff inventories,
assessing manpower requirements and their training needs anc. establishing
suitable training programs for staff.
3.16      The technical assistance staff will be provided by a consulting
firm; the draft terms of reference are given in Annexes 4 & 5. These were
discussed and agreed with Government at negotiations (Para. 5.01(j)) and an
agreement was reached that by March 31, 1985, Government wi:Ll submit to



- 32 -
the Association, for its review and approval, a suitable training program
for MOW's staff (Para. 5.01(k)).
Preparation of Future Road Maintenance Program
3.17      The project covers a part of a seven-year road maintenance
program identified by the consultants, and includes periodic maintenance of
only 1,600 km, out of total of 7,540 km, of the classified road network in
Uganda. The project therefore includes funding for consultants to carry
out a study for drawing up a future three-year road maintenance program
(1988-1990), which could be included in a subsequent project. The draft
terms of reference for the study are shown in Annex 6. These were
discussed and agreed upon with Government during negotiations (Para.
5.01(1)).
Pilot Program for Development of
Local Construction Industry
3.18      The road construction industry in Uganda is suffering the
consequences of a decade of disruptions in economic activity; the local
firms lack resources to perform competitively and profitably in road
construction (Para. 2.37). Government is anxious to develop the local
construction industry in order to reduce its reliance on foreign
contractors. The project therefore includes a Pilot Program for
development of local construction industry. A notional provision has been
made in the project for technical assistance and procurement of equipment
for providing on-the-job training to a few selected local firms on
different phases of construction (tender preparation, site organization and
management, personnel management, cost control, etc.); the
roads to be used as training media will be from among those included for
resealing/regravelling under the project. Annex 7 provides an outline of
the program which was discussed with Government at negotiations. It was
agreed that the Government will prepare and submit to the Association for
its approval the details of implementation of the program (Para. 5.01 (m)).
C. Project Cost and Financing
3.19      The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at
US$ 80.9 million. Excluding taxes and duties, the total cost is US$ 74.0
million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$ 58.0 million or 78%
of project costs excluding taxes. A breakdown of costs (in December 1983
prices) is shown below (Tables 3.1 and 3.2).



- 33 -
Taele 3.1
Estimated Project Costs
Item                      Local   Foreigi  Total       Local   Foreign   Total  % Foreign
U=4 Sh MilEion~                U$41iRA&(iorr      Component
(a) Resealing of Paved Roads                      1448     3037     4485       5.79  12.15    17.94       68
(b) Regravelling of Gravel Roads                  1040     2188     3228      4.16   8.75    12.91        68
(c) Procurement of Road Maintenance & Workshop
FIuipment, Spare Parts, Tools and
Training Equipment:
(i)  New Equipment including Spare Parts       248     2222     2470      0.99   8.89      9.88       90
(ii)  Spare parts for Existing Equipment         17      150      167       0.07   C.60     0.67       90
(iii)  Workshop Equipment and Tools               40      355      395      0.16   1.42      1.58       90
(iv)  Training Equipment                          5       47       52      0.02   C.19      0.21       90
(d) Improvesent to Road Maintenance
Training Center                                50       18       68       0.20   C.07     0.27       26
(e) Inprovement to MNW Workshops                   222       78      300      0.89   C.31      1.20       26
(f) Supply of Fuel and Bitumen                     970     2030     3000       3.88   E.12    12.00       68
(g) Consultant Services:
(i)  Preparation of Bidding Documents           10       40       50      0.04   0.16      0.20       80
for Road Resealing/Regravelling
(ii)  Supervision of Road Resealing/
Regravelling                               60      240      300       0.24   0.96     1.20       80
(iii) Preparation of Bidding Documents
for Road Maintenance and Workshop
Equipment, etc.                             2       10       12      0.01   o.04      0.05       80
(iv)  Technical Assistance                      105      420      525      0.42   1.68      2.10       80
(v) Preparation of Future
Road Maintenance Program                    5       20       25      0.02   C.08      0.10       80
(h) Pilot Program for Development of
Local Construction Industry                   100      400      500       0.40   1.60     2.00       80
Sub-total                        4322    11255    15577      17.29  45.02    62.31        72
(I) Contingencies
(i)  Physical 10% on itenm  (a) to (g)        422     1085     1507      1.69   4.34      6.03
(ii)  Price 1/ on items (a) to (g)            1003     2130     3133      4.01   E.52    12.53
Total Project Cost                         5747    14470    20217     22.99  57.88    80.87        72
Total Project Cost
Exrluding Taxes                         4040    14470    18510      16.02  57.88    73.90       78
On Rounding                        (4000)  (14,500)(18,500)    (16.0)(58.00)  (74.00)
1/ Expected Prioe Increases (%)
1984     1985     1986     1987
Local      10.0      7.0       6.0      6.0
Foreign     7.5      7.0      6.0       6.0



Thale 3.2
IBMR HCU PRnnEsr
Year-Ase Bre*doi of Proteti Costs
UJS$ (miliou)
Item                                      1984                      1985                     1986                     1987                   Total
local  Foel    ITl    local  Pml     Total  local  Foe_    Mbtal  loacToal                          loA M~ 1cal   __~  Total
(a) Resealing of Paved Roads                  -        -       -        1.45    3.04    4.49   2.60    5.47    8.07       1.74   3.64    5.38   5.79    12.15    17.94
(b) Regravelling of Gravel Roads              -        -       -        1.04    2.19    3.23    1.87    3.94    5.81      1.25   2.62    3.87    4.16    8.75    12.91
(c) Procurenent of Road Maintenance ard
Workshop Equipent, Spare Parts,
TooLs and Traininig Eqdpipment:
(i) Nev Fxuipeent including Spare Parts            -                0.99    8.89    9.88                           -                          0.99    8.89    9.88
(ii) Spare Parts for Existing Fquipment     -       -                0.07    0.60    0.67                           -           -       -      0.07    0.60    0.67
(iii)  Workshop EquipTent and Tools          -       -        -       0.16     1.42    1.58    -            -        -           -        -     0.16     1.42    1.58
(iv) Training Fqu,ident                    -       -       -        0.02    0.19    0.21              -            -       -  -               0.02    0.19    0.21
(d) Improveiaent to Road iatlitenance
Training Center                            -       -        -       0.20    0.07    0.27    -              -       -           -        -     0.20    0.07    0.27
(e) Thprovewnnt to D  lAbrkshops               -       -       -        0.89    0.31     1.20    -        -       _        _       _       _      0.89    0.31     1.20
(f) Supply of Fuel & Bitumen x                         -       -        1.29    2.71    4.00    1.29    2.71    4.00      1.29   2.71    4.00   3.88    8.12    12.00       -
(g) Constatant Services:
(i) Preparation of Bidding Doculents
for Road Risesaling/Regravelling          0.04    0.16    0.20       -        -       -       -       -        -        -      -              0.04    0.16    0.20
(ii) Supervision of Road Resealing/
Regravelling                               -       -        -       0.08    0.32    0.40   0.08    0.32    0.40    0.08   0.32    0.40   0.74    0.96           1.20
(iii) Preparation of Bidding Docurents
for Road Maintenance & Workshop
Equdpaent, etc.                           0.01    0.04    0.05       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -     0.01    0.04    0.05
(iv) Technical Assistance                      -        -       -        0.14    0.56    0.70   0.14    0.56    0.70    0.14   0.56    0.70   0.42          1.68    2.10
(v) Preparation of Future Road
Maintenance Prograns                       -       -        -        -        -       _      0.02    0.08    0.10      -       -        -     0.02    0.08    0.10
(h) Pilot program for Development of
local Construction Industry                -       -                0.10    0.40    0.50   0.20    0.80       1.00    0.10   0.40    0.50   0.40       1.60    2.00
Sub-Total                       0.05    0.20    0.25       6.43   20.70   27.13   6.20   13.88   20.08    4.60   10.25   14.85  17.29   45.02   62.31
(i) Contingencies
(i) Physical                               -      0.02    0.02      0.63    2.03    2.66   0.60    1.31    1.91    0.46   0.98    1.44   1.69    4.34    6.03
(ii) Price                                  -      0.09    0.09      0.97    2.49    3.46   1.39    2.59    3.98    1.65   3.35    5.00   4.01    8.52    12.53
Total Project Cost               0.05    0.31    0.36      8.03   25.22   33.25   8.19   17.78   25.97    6.71   14.58   21.29   22.99   57.88   80.87
_         -                 -        -      - _-                              -_-                     -



- 35 -
3.20      Project cost estimates are based on the following:
(a) Road Resealing/Regravelling: based on unit costs and quantities
developed by consultants taking into consideration current prices
of materials, labor and equipment,as well as a survey of unit
prices on other similar works in the project area, and have been
found to be reasonable.
(b)  Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment, Spare Parts, Tools and
Training Equipment: based on consultants' estimates which reflect
c.i.f. Kampala prices and have been found to be reasonable.
(c)  Improvement to Road Maintenance Training Center & MOW Workshops:
based on MOW estimates taking into consideration cost of similar
works carried out in UJganda recently.
(d) Supply of Fuel and Bitumen: based on current c.i.f. '(ampala
prices.
(e) Consultant Services: (Para 3.12) includes a total of 400
man-months, a net average of US$9,000 per man-month which
includes US$6,500 for salaries, firms overheads (home office
expenses, expatriate allowances, social costs, etc.) and profit,
and US$2,500 for reimbursable expenses (international travel,
communications, subsistence and other miscellaneous items).
These costs are in line with those for similar services in the
area.
(f) Pilot Program for Development of Local Construction Industry:
a notional amount has been included for technical assistance and
procurement of equipment.
3.21      The total project cost of US$ 74.0 million, net of taxes and
duties, will be financed by an IDA credit of US$58.0 million, covering
foreign costs, and a Government contribution of US$ 16.0 million, covering
local costs.
D. -Tplementation and Procurement
3.22      Project implementation will be the responsibility of' the MOW and
MOT. Consultants will be engaged for preparation of bidding documents and
supervision of road resealing/regravelling; preparation of bicdding
documents for road maintenance and workshop equipment, and tools; technical
assistance; and preparation of future road maintenance program.



- 36 -
3.23      The resealing and regravelling of roads estimated to cost US$
30.9 million, excluding contingencies, will be procured under unit price
contracts on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines with separate contracts for
resealing and regravelling under each of the two phases (Para. 3.03)
(Para. 5.01(n)). The new road maintenance equipment, including a supply of
spare parts, and workshop equipment and tools estimated to cost US$ 11.5
million, excluding contingencies, will be procured through ICB in
accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines, with separate contracts for each
type or group of similar types of equipment. Procurement of off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$ 20,000 each and totalling not more than US$
500,000 may be procured from dealers on the basis of quotations obtained
locally. The equipment suppliers will be required to provide an adequate
organization and maintain a reasonable inventory of spare parts in Uganda.
They will also be required to provide training of mechanics and plant
operators. The fuel and bitumen required for routine road maintenance, and
equipment required for the Pilot program for development of local
construction industry will be procured on the basis of ICB.   The spare
parts required for existing equipment and training equipment estimated to
cost US$ 0.9 million, excluding contingencies, would involve a wide range
of items of various makes and are unlikely to attract ICB. Direct purchase
will be required for proprietary spare parts; all other items will be
procured on the basis of international shopping, requiring price quotations
from not less then three suppliers from atleast two countries. The
improvement to RMTC and MOW Workshops, estimated to cost US$ 1.5 million,
excluding contingencies, too would not attract ICB. The works will be
carried out by local contractors after competitive bidding in accordance
with Government procedures satisfactory to the Association and will be
supervised by MOW staff. All contracts for works and procurement of road
maintenance equipment, including a supply of spare parts, and workshop
equipment and tools, except those which are procured locally, would be
subject to the Association's prior review of procurement documentation.
Consultants will be employed in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines
(Para. 5.01(o)).
3.24      The road resealing/regravelling will take 36 months beginning
January 1985 with an estimated 25% of works to be carried out in 1985, 45%
in 1986 and the remaining 30% in 1987. The procurement of road maintenance
and workshop equipment, tools and training equipment will be completed by
end-1985.  The improvements to RMTC and MOW workshops will take 12 months
and the works will be carried out in 1985. The preparation of future road
maintenance program will take about four months and will be completed by
end-1986. The project is scheduled to begin in mid-1984 and be completed
by end-1987. An implementation schedule shown in Chart III was discussed
and agreed with Government during negotiations (Para. 5.01(p)).



- 37 -
E. Disbursements
3.25      Credit funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for resealing/regravelling of roads,
or 70% of local expenditures;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for procurement of road maintenance
and workshop equipment, spare parts, tools and training
equipment, if procured from abroad; 80% of expenditures, if
procured locally;
(c) 25% of expenditures for improvement to RMTC and MOW uorkshops;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for supply of fuel and bitumen;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures or 70% of local expendil-ures for
consultant services; and
(f) 80% of expenditures for Pilot Program for Developmenl: of Local
Construction Industry.
3.26      An estimated disbursement schedule is set out below 'Table 3.3).
The disbursement estimates are based on the project implemental:ion schedule
(Chart III) and the typical disbursement profile for the highway subsector
in the region.  In order to expedite and facilitate disbursements it was
agreed at negotiations that the Government will set up a Special Account in
the Bank of Uganda with an initial deposit of US$2.6 million to serve as a
revolving fund for expenditures on resealing/regravelling of roads and road
maintenance, workshop and training equipment, spare parts and tools, and
consultant services. A condition of Credit effectiveness will be that such
Special Account has been opened by Government (Para. 5.02(b)).



- 38 -
Table 3.3
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year                                            Cumulative
and End of                                            Disbursements
Quarter                                               at End of Quarter
US$'T MU
1985
December 31, 1984                                              250
March 31, 1985                                               1,500
June 30, 1985                                                5,000
1986
September 30, 1985                                           8,500
December 31, 1985                                           12,000
March 31, 1986                                              17,000
June 30, 1986                                               22,000
1987
Septemer 30, 1986                                           27,000
December 31, 1986                                           32,000
March 31, 1987                                              37,000
June 30, 1987                                               42,000
1988
September 30, 1987                                          47,000
December 31, 1987                                           50,500
March 30, 1988                                              54,000
June 30, 1988                                               58,000
Closing Date: September 30, 1988
Source: Mission Estimates



- 39 -
F.  Accounting, Auditing & Reporting Requirements
3.27      Accounting Section of the MOW maintains accounts of all capital
and recurrent expenditures on works financed locally. For projects
financed by outside agencies, however, the accounts are maintained by the
Treasury; the certified copies of all contractor/consultant certificates
are forwarded by MOW to the Treasury. The accounting Section, is an
extension of the Treasury Department; all the accounts staff above the
mid-levels are employees of the Treasury Department. There i'3 general
shortage of qualified accounting personnel in the country. To overcome the
problem of large backlog of individuals in post, however, the Glasgow
College of Technology in conjunction with Glasgow District Council recently
conducted, in Uganda, a ten-week full time course for training of some
30-35 senior Government Accountants in the Accounts and Audit field.
3.28      The Auditor General's Department, though understaffed, has 5
directors, 8 principal auditors, 19 senior auditors, 45 auditors/assistant
auditors and a number of other staff. However, the key post of principal
accountant in the MOW is currently vacant.  At negntiations, it was agreed
with Government that this post will be filled by December 31, 1984 by
employing additional staff with appropriate qualifications and experience
(Para. 5.01 (q)).
3.29      Under Public Finance Act, the Auditor General submits, by March
31 each year, his report on the audit of various ministries and departments
of Government to the National Assembly through the Minister of Finance.
Agreement was reached with the Government at negotiations that all project
accounts will be audited by the Auditor General or other independent
auditors according to generally accepted accounting procedures and that the
Government will submit certified copies of such accounts together with the
Auditors' opinions and reports to the Association not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (Para. 5.01(r)).
3r30      At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Gcvernment on
progress reporting requirements (Annex 8) which include indices for
measuring implementation progress, and submission of a project completion
report in a form satisfactory to the Bank not later than si7. months after
the closing date of the Credit account (Para. 5.01(s)).



- 40 -
G. Environmental Aspects
3.31      The project is not expected to have any detrimental impact on the
adjacent areas and soil erosion would be less than at present. Also, dust
formation during the dry season would be lower as a result of
resealing/regravelling of roads, and hence, improved safety and comfort
should result.



- 41 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The goal of Uganda's Recovery Program (1982-84) is to stimulate
the productive sectors and restore the economy to the levels achieved in
the early 1970s. The three priority sectors on which the Government is
concentrating its efforts are agriculture, industry and transport.
Improvements to the transport sector are critical to both agricultural and
industrial development and this is the reason why the Government of Uganda
wishes to improve transport links which serve both domestic and
international needs. For the road subsector, the first priority is
maintenance of the existing network and rehabilitation of the high priority
trunk roads damaged by neglect during the last decade. The single largest
planned expenditure in the road subsector (about 50% of investments) is the
proposed maintenance project. The project will concentrate its efforts on
the classified road network which carries the bulk of motorized traffic,
thereby reaping the highest benefits.
4.02      The proposed project would help the MOW expand and strengthen its
maintenance effort which has been constrained due to the shortages of
qualified staff, equipment and foreign exchange. It will assist the MOW
increase gradually its maintenance capability while also having much needed
resealing and regravelling performed by contractor. At the same time staff
will be trained and technical assistance provided to help the MOW
reorganize its routine maintenance bridgades throughout the country. The
project will also assist the MOT to enhance overall transport sector
management, planning and organization by providing technical assistance to
establish and operate a statistical and data collection unit which would
collect and analyze data necessary for policy making. The project's inpact
on the MOW is expected to be substantial and will allow it to make a solid
start in restoring its long neglected network to further the country's
economic development.
B. Area of Influence of the Project, Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.03      As mentioned in Para. 4.01, the maintenance program covers the
classified road network, comprising the most important and heavily
trafficked roads in Uganda. The rGads link centers of economic activity to
each other and to their agricultural hinterlands. Because the network is
basically arranged in a hub and spoke system with Kampala at the center,
its improvement will allow better access to and from the districts for
movement of productive in-puts and the evacuation of foodcrops and
agricultural export crops to Kampala and further to Mombasa.



- 42 -
4.04      The resealing and regravelling programs involve about 50 road
links throughout the country and are aimed at sections which have not
deteriorated beyond the point where regravelling and/or resealing can be
carried out to preserve the roads. The resealing works will cover about
600 km while regravelling will be carried out on about 1,000 km, most of
which have not been resealed or regravelled during the last 10 years.
4.05      The project also aims at reestablishing the MOW's capability to
carry out routine maintenance over the entire classified network by
providing the necessary equipment, supplies and materials along with
technical assistance and training to help the Ministry better carry out
this task. This component will directly benefit producers, consumers and
the entire economy by extending the life of the road network and reducing
costly repairs which might otherwise occur without regular routine
maintenance.
4.06      The main benefit of the project will be its impact on reducing
vehicle operating costs as given in Annex 9, Table 1. Improved road
maintenance will allow better access to productive areas, provide cheaper
and more reliable transport, arrest the deterioration of roads and improve
MOW's maintenance capacity. Important benefits not quantified in the
economic evaluation include reduced freight damage, accidents and travel
time and better access to social and medical facilities. Except for the
technical assistance, training and the local construction industry pilot
development program, for which no separate rate of return has been
calculated, all other project components have been subject to economic
analysis. The technical assistance and training components are
nevertheless considered indispensable elements of project implementation.
4.07      The major direct beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs
will be the owners and operators of cars, trucks and buses. Since freight
transport is essentially free of regulation, it is expected that producers
and consumers alike would benefit from the resulting reduced transport
costs. Because of the rapid deterioration of vehicles and thenetwork,
improvement of maintenance will prolong the lives of both the vehicles and
the roads. Reduced fuel consumption should also result in savings, mostly
in foreign exchange. The Government is also a major beneficiary, partly
through reduced road maintenance and partly through vehicle ownership.



- 43 -
C.  Economic Analysis
4.08      Except for the technical assistance, training and the local
construction industry pilot development program for which the economic
returns, albeit substantial, are difficult to quantify, all other
components of the proposed project have been individually analyzed to
assess their returns. These include: (1) the resealing program; (2) the
regravelling program; and (3) the routine maintenance program. Economic
costs (March 1983) are based on consultants study and analysis of costs of
these operations which are in line with similar ongoing works in the
country.
4.09      The economic analysis of the project is based on an assessment of
costs and expected benefits "with" and "without" the proposed works. For
the resealing and regravelling component, the "without" project case
assumes progressive deterioration of the road surface and a corresponding
increase in vehicle operating costs, estimated by using the HDM model. In
the "with" project case it is assumed that the investments will protect the
roads against further deterioration and reduce the VOC's from 17% to 41%
depending on the stage of deterioration, condition and type of road. Only
savings in vehicle operating costs are quantified for the analysis.
Benefits not quantified such as savings in delays of future reconstruction
as a result of the proposed maintenance program (included for the resealing
program, see Para. 4.11), time savings and reductions in potential freight
damage represent substantial benefits which, if quantified, would enhance
the rates of return. The economic evaluation therefore underestimates the
expected rates of return.
4.10      The VOC savings for the analysis of all project components are
based on the different road conditions in Uganda and on the vehicle
composition and traffic growth established by the MOW and consultants who
prepared the maintenance program which are adequate. The results of the
1982 traffic counts are included in Annex 9, Table 2.
Resealing and Regravelling Program
4.11      The roads to be resealed and regravelled were selected from a
list prepared by consultants according to their level of deterioration and
traffic. A two-phase program was developed with actual works beginning in
1985, each phase covering eighteen months. The first phase resealing
program includes 249 km while the regravelling program would cover 587 km
in the first phase. In the second phase, 348 km and 412 km respectively



- 44 -
would be resealed and regravelled. The proposed works will result in
improved riding surfaces, better speeds and as such will reduce vehicle
operating costs. The economic analysis of this project component is based
on: (1) a five-year economic life for resealing and six-year economic life
for regravelling; (2) annual maintenance costs per km of US$ 2,095 for
paved and US$ 625 for gravel roads throughout the life of the investment;
and (3) traffic volumes ranging from 76 vpd on gravel roads to about 3,000
vpd on paved roads in 1982 with a composition of 60% light vehicles, 30%
medium and 10% heavy vehicles. For both the regravelling and resealing
program, the analysis assumes a growth rate of 6% annually throughout the
period. Since there is no history on which to establish traffic growth,
the analysis assumes projections of GDP growth as a proxy for future
traffic forecasts. Based on these assumptions, the regravelling
program has an overall ERR of 59% with sections ranging from 21% to 383%.
The ERR for the resealing program is 45% with sections varying from 15% to
167% (Annex 9, Tables 3 and 4). As a further benefit for resealing an
estimate of rehabilitation cost in the absence of these works of twice the
resealing cost has been made. If that factor is included the ERR increases
to 56% for the resealing program.
Routine Maintenance Program
4.12      The economic analysis for this program has been done separately
for paved and gravel roads. These works will be carried out with a mix of
50% labour costs and 50% equipment costs and consultants have estimated
separate costs for each category of roads. For paved roads, the analysis
is based on capital and incremental recurrent costs identified by
consultants and using an average of 180 vpd on these roads (1,960 km). The
gravel roads (5,083 km) on the other hand are assumed to have an average of
60 vpd and the growth rate for both is assumed at 3%. Based on these
assumptions and a six year anticipated life of the equipment, the estimated
rate of return for the routine maintenance of paved roads is 62%. Costs
and benefits are shown in Annex 9, Table 5. The estimated rate of return
for the routine maintenance of gravel roads, is estimated at 65%. Costs
and benefits for these are shown in Annex 9, Table 6. The investment is
therefore well justified. The above returns are only approximate in view
of the paucity of data on the road network and the fact that the specific
routine maintenance program is yet to be defined.
Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
4.13      The overall economic rate of the return for the project is 54%
for all the quantitatively analysed components, representing 90% of total
project costs. Sensitivity analyses were carried out for the regravelling,



- 45 -
resealing and routine maintenance programs based on possible changes in
variables used in determining the estimated rates of return. The three
variables tested in the sensitivity analysis include: (1) possible cost
increases; (2) possible reductions in VOC savings ; and (3) lower than
expected traffic growth. With cost increases of 10%, overall ERRs range
between 10% and 348% for the separate programs. Reduced VOC savings of 10%
would yield ERRs of 10% to 345%. Reducing the traffic growth to 3% per
year would yield ERRs ranging from 10% to 380% indicating little
sensitivity to this variable. While one road link would dip to as low as
10% under the most pessimistic assumptions, it is recommended that it not
be dropped from the overall program because of the conservative nature of
the analysis used in estimating ERRs. The overall rates of return for the
regravelling, resealing, and routine maintenance programs range from 52% to
65%, thereby amply justifying each program.
D. Risks
4.14      While the project is designed to reduce as much as possible risks
associated with implementation, there is nevertheless the possibility that
implementation could be delayed by MOW's lack of familiarity with Bank
procurenent procedures, lack of staff morale in MOW caused by the
unrealistically low salaries and a shortage of local funds to carry out the
project. An even greater risk would be the unsettled security conditions
prevailing in the country and the overall political situation. The project
has been designed to overcome as many of these risks as possible by having
all resealing and regravelling carried out by contract. In addition, due
to the very long hiatus in operations in the country (14 years), the Bank
will have to provide intensive supervision of the project particularly in
the early stages. The one risk, however, which is difficult to anticipate
is the security and political situation which will exist at the time of
project execution. Under prevailing conditions, the project as designed is
feasible. If the situation severely deteriorates, it will undoubtedly have
a negative impact on the project, both in terms of cost and anticipated
completion. Should the environment worsen considerably, a revision of the
project's scope may be needed. Since all resealing and regravelling is
being done by contract these elements could be curtailed relatively easily.



- 46 -
V. AGR8EEKNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negontiations, agreement was reached with Government on
the following items:
(a) the Government shall take all measures necessary on its part by
September 1, 1984 to formalize appropriate arrangments with Kenya
concerning the inerchange of rolling stock. (Para. 1.10).
(b) annual traffic counts will be resumed starting not later than
January 1, 1985 (Para. 2.04);
(c) the accounting study for the parastatal corporations will begin
not later than December 31, 1984, and based on the study
recommendations the Government shall submit to the Associatiion
by June 30, 1985, its proposals concerning tariff levels for
passenger transport. After review of its proposals by the
Association, the Government shall establish passenger tariffs
having due regard to any comments made by the Association (Para.
2.14);
(d) regulations governing vehicle size, weight, dimensions and road
safety will, be enforced not later than December 31, 1984 (2.15);
(e) fill the position of Deputy Engineer-in-Chief by not later than
December 31, 1984, and keep this position and that of Chief
Training Engineer filled at all times with suitably qualified and
experienced persons (Para. 2.27);
(f) a minimum of U Sh. 1,500 million in 1983 prices will be provided
annually in FY 1985, 1986 and 1987 for routine maintenance of the
classified road network and not later than four months before the
beginning of each fiscal year the Government will review with the
Association the budgetary requirements and the proposed budgetary
allocation for road maintenance (Para. 2.34);
(g) the Government and the Association will, by June 30, 1987,
exchange views on the estimated funds required for road
maintenance for the following three years and the Government will
take measures necessary to ensure that such funds will be
available to MOW as and when needed (para. 2.34);
(h) the Government will, by August 31, 1984, submit to the
Association for its review plans and construction details of
additional facilities to be provided at the RMTC campus (Para.
3.08);



- 47 -
(1) the Government will, by August 31, 1984, submit to the
Association for its review plans and construction details of the
MOW workshops and the classroom structures at the central
workshop (Para. 3.09);
(j) the draft terms of reference for the technical assistance staff
(Para. 3.16);
(k) the Government will, by March 31, 1985, submit to the Association
for its review and approval a suitable training program for MOW's
staff (Para 3.16);
(1) the draft terms of reference for a study for drawing up a future
road maintenance program (Para. 3.17);
(m)  Government will submit to the Association for its approval the
details of implementation of the pilot program for the
development of the local construction industry (Para. 3.18);
(n) the resealing and regravelling of roads will be performed under
unit price contracts under ICB in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines with separate contracts for resealing and regravelling
under each of the two phases (Para. 3.23);
(o) consultants will be employed in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines (Para. 3.23);
(p) the implementation schedule of the proposed project (Para. 3.24);
(q) the Government will, by December 31, 1984, fill the post of
principal accountant in MOW with a person having appropriate
qualifications and experience (Para. 3.28);
(r) all project accounts will be audited by the Auditor General or
other independent auditors according to generally accepted
accounting procedures and the Government will submit certified
copies of such accounts together with the auditors' opinions and
reports to the Association not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year (Para. 3.29); and
(s) the Government will provide the Association with progress reports
which will include indices for measuring implementation progress
and will submit a project completion report in a form
satisfactory to the Association not later than six months after
the closing date of the credit account (Para. 3.30).



- 48 -
5.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness will be that the Government
has:
(a) employed consultants to assist in preparation of bidding
documents for road resealing/regravelling and for road
maintenance and workshop equipment, and tools (Para. 3.13);
(b) opened a special account with the Bank of Uganda (Para. 3.26).
5.03      Having reached agreement on the items in Para. 5.01, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of SDRs 56.1 million (US$58.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms.



UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Estimated Road Motor Vehicles by Type
Year          Heavv       Pickups    Buses    Minibuses    Cars    Motorcycles
Commercial        &                                             &         Other including         TOTAL
Vehicles       Vans                                        Scooters       Tractors, Plant etc.
1971          6795          4988       903         665      23,771       6161              1227               44,510
1972          6617          5320       996         709      24,054       6235              1331               45,262
1973          5978          4836       915         645      21,732       5654               1220              40,980
1974          5535          4542       902         611      20,025       5381               1260              38,256
1975          7210          5087       971         593      18,994       5132               1365              38,352
1976          6185          4393       846         514      16,523       5399               1298              34,158
1977          5755          4475       777         614      15,734       4562               1765              33,682
1978          5812          5101       839         779      15,757       4754               2252              35,294
1979          3216          3336       553         533      11,279       4459               1914              25,290
1980          3519          3672       608         605      11,644       4726               2157              26,931
1981          3607          3689       620         675      10,656       4217               2174              25,638
1982          3529          3426       593         699       9,821       3926               2080              24,074
Source:  Uganda
Ministry of Transport



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 1
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads included in the Project for Periodic Maintenance
I. First Phase Roads
A.  Paved Roads to be Resealed             Length Included in the Project
(km)
Kampala-Port Bell                                    5
Kampala-Entebbe                                     29
Makindge Lodge Road                                  3
Tank Hill Road                                       5
Nyendo-Villa Maria                                  13
Masaka-Mutukula                                     40
Pope Paul VI Road                                    6
Mukono-Jukani Railway Station Road                   5
Kyambogo Estate Roads                                5
Jinja-Kamuli                                        57
Kampala-Mityana                                     52
Mbale-Kumi                                          29
Total         249
On Rounding         (250)
B.  Gravel Roads to be Regravelled    Length Included in the Project
(km)
Masaka-Mutukula                                      2
Gulu-Pakwach                                         3
Mbale-Tirinyi                                        3
Bukoboli-Tirinyi                                    47
Mityana-Nabingoro                                   38
Gayaza-Kalagi                                       22
Busia-Mbale                                         26
Namulu-Nadunget                                     36
Mityana-Nabingoro                                   89
Hoima-Busunju                                       72
Kampala-Hoima                                       48
Kabale-Bunagana                                     43
Namunsi-Namalu                                      26
Pakwach-Arua                                       132
Total         587
On Rounding         (590)



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 2
II. Second Phase Roads
A.  Paved Roads to be Resealed          Length Included in the Project
(km)
Masaka-Mutukula                                    29
Kasese-Kilembe                                      3
Soroti-Kumi                                        30
Mbale-Kumi                                         20
Mbarara-Masaka                                     88
Kampala-Gayaza                                     13
Mukono-Kayunga                                     50
Fort Portal-Mbarara                               115
Total       348
On Rounding       (350)
B.  Gravel Roads to be Regravelled         Length Included in Project
(km)
Kayunga-Nabuganyi                                 20
Kayunga-Bale                                      44
Kabale-Katuna                                     22
Kabale-Bunagana                                   23
Mbale-Pallisa                                     46
Namalu-Nadunget                                   28
Namalu-Lokapel                                    25
Kamuli-Nabuganyi                                  16
Hoima-Masindi                                     52
Bukasa rifle range                                 8
Kagamba-Rukungiri                                 34
Fort Portal-Kampala                               94
Total       412
On Rounding       (410)



- 52 -
AnmK 3
SThI HM W
m FquJment to be Purchased
Unit (cif)                Total (cif)
Iten                                    Units              Cost                      Cost
U Sh.'000 US $'000       U Sh.'000    US $'000
Bitumen heater distributor
(400 gallon)                            22         3,500.00   14.00          77,000.0      308.00
Barrows Dobbin                          108             75.00    0.30          8,100.0       32.40
Bicycles                                150             12.50    0.05          1,875.0        7.50
Conpactor, Vibro plate                   36            675.00    2.70         24,300.0       97.20
Conpactor, steel vibratory,
hand operated (1+ ton)                   4          5,000.00   20.00         20,000.0       80.00
Conpactor, pneumatic-tired, self-
propelled (8-10 ton)                    16         16,200.00   64.80        259,200.0    1,036.80
Hand Tools (picks, shovels, etc), set   54              12.50    0.05            675.0        2.70
?btograder (120-135 HP)                  25         31,050.00  124.20        776,250.0    3,105.00
%torcycles                               50            400.00    1.60         20,000.0       80.00
Pick-up, crewrab                         44          2,150.00    8.60         94,600.0      378.40
Truck, water (1,200 gallons)             20          9,450.00   37.80        189,000.0      756.00
Truck, fuel (1,200 gallons)               8          9,450.00   37.80         75,600.0      302.40
Trailer, tilt (18 ton)                    8          6,750.00   27.00         54,000.0      216.00
Truck, tipper (7-9 ton)                  57          9,450.00   37.80        538,650.0    2,154.60
Tools (pipe wrench, saw, etc), set       21             12.50    0.05            263.0         1.05
Water pump, 3 in                          8          1,125.00    4.50          9,000.0       36.00
2,148,513.0    8,594.05
Spare parts (15%)     322,277.0    1,289.11
Total   2,470,790.0    9,883.16
Source: Consultants (Icuis Berger International Inc.), MDW & nission estimates



- 53 -
f
ANNEX 4
Page 1
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the
Ministry of Transport
Draft Terms of Reference
I. Objectives
1.        The purpose of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Ministry
of Transport establish and operate a statistical unit which will collect
and analyze transport data needed to support policy and investment
decisions and to train local staff.
II.  Scope of Consulting Services
2.        The consultants will provide a technical assistance team
consisting of two transport planners/statisticians for a period of two
years each. The individuals will form the core of a team with local
counterparts under the MOTs Chief Economist and in conjunction with the
Statistics Department of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development,
which will be responsible for all transport data gathering and analysis in
the country.
TII. Individual Job Descriptions
A. Senior Transport Planner/Statistician (24 months)
Qualifications
3.        A senior transport planner/statistician will be the team leader
and should be a qualified transport economist with a background in
transport data collection (traffic counts, origin-destination surveys,
carrier costs, and performance indicators, etc), traffic forecasting,
statistics and information management with a minimum of 5 to 7 years work
related experience. He should be familiar with all transport modes and the
types of data needed to evaluate operational performance, productivity
levels, traffic flows, financial performance and transport supply and
demand considerations. Fluency in written and spoken English and the
ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 2
Duties
4.        As head of the transport data unit, he will report to the Chief
Economist in the Ministry of Transport. He will be assigned a qualified
counterpart with whom he will be responsible for operating the statistical
unit, including but not limited to:
a) establishing data required by each mode;
b) developing the proper data collection procedures and working
closely with all transport agencies in the implementation of
the system including supervision of field traffic counts;
c)  checking the validity of the data;
d) preparing statistical series and data tables by mode; and
e) providing the supporting analysis for the results.



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 3
B. Transport Planner/Statistician
(24 months)
Qualifications
5.        The _ransport planner/statistician will have essentially the same
qualifications as the senior transport planner/statistician but will be
junior and may have less emphasis in information management in his previous
assignments. He would likely have about 5 years experience in the field.
Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to communicate ideas
easily are also required.
Duties
6.        He will report to the Head of the Transport Statistics Unit but
will be responsible for assistance to and coordination with MOW. He will
assist in the organization of data collection and dissemination, including
but not limited to:
a) helping private carriers to collect standardized information
on equipment, performance and passenger and/or traffic
volumes;
b) establishing information storing systems with all transport
parastatals;
c) liasion with and assistance to MOW in reinstating regular
traffic counts; and
d) providing on-the-job field supervision and training of
counterpart staff.



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 1
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
THE MINISTRY OF WORKS
Draft Terms of Reference
I. Objectives
1.        The purpose of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Ministry
of Works with improving road maintenance planning, organization and
operations, including equipment management and control and to train local
staff in these fields.
II. Scope of Consulting Services
2.        The consultants will provide a technical assistance team
consisting of a senior highway engineer (team leader), a road maintenance
engineer, a road maintenance superintendent, an equipment maintenance
engineer, a mechanical superintendent, an instructor (civil) and an
instructor (Mechanical) for the period indicated against each. The
individuals will assist and advise the MOW in their respective fields in
addition to carrying out classroom and on-the-job training of local staff.
They will be stationed in Kampala or one of the district headquarters.
III. Individual Job Descriptions
A. Senior Highway Engineer (30 months)
Qualifications:
3.        The senior highway engineer should be a qualified, professional
construction and maintenance of bituminous-surfaced, gravel and earth
roads, including the design and use of bituminous mixes and the testing of
soils and materials; should have experience in operational and
administrative aspects of highway maintenance in a government road
organization, including establishment of efficiency incentives, unit



- 57 -
Annex 5
Page 2
costing and similar management systems and controls. He should have
suitable experience not only in usage and control of equipment but also
labor-based methods, with a good appreciation of where the use of the
latter is technically and economically appropriate. He should also have
previous experience in organizing and conducting training programs for
staff. Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to
communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties:
4.        He will report to the Deputy Engineer-in-Chief and will assist
and advise him on all aspects of highway maintenance planning, organization
and operations, including but not limited to:
(i) developing and operating the highway maintenance organization,
including equipment management and control, work scheduling and
budgeting;
(ii) installing a system of cost accounting procedures to facilitate
determining the cost of individual road rehabilitation and
maintenance operations and the total cost of maintaining
individual road sections, relating costs to physical environments
and traffic;
(iii) reviewing and updating existing highway inventories and records
prepared under the recently-completed Highway Maintenance and
Organization study, and in making such additional surveys and
investigations as are necessary to prepare updated inventories
of the classified road network;
(iv)  reviewing and updating existing data such as highway traffic
counts, axle loads, origin and destination data and traffic
forecasts;
(v) reviewing staff inventories, assessing manpower requirements and
their training needs, and establishing suitable training
programs for staff; and
(vi) coordinating the work of the technical assistance team and of
personnel employed in highway maintenance planning and
operations.



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 3
B. Road Maintenance Engineer (30 months)
Qualifications:
5.        The road maintenance engineer should be a qualified professional
civil engineer with 10-15 years experience in design, construction and
maintenance of bituminous-surfaced, gravel and earth roads, including the
design and use of bituminous mixes and the testing of soils and materials;
should have experience in operational and administrative aspects of highway
maintenance in a government road organization, including establishment of
efficiency incentives, unit costing and similar management systems and
controls. He should have suitable experience not only in usage and control
of equipment but also labor-based methods, with a good appreciation of
where the use of the latter is technically and economically appropriate.
He should also have previous experience in organizing and conducting
training programs for staff. Fluency in written and spoken English and the
ability to communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties:
6.        He will report to the Chief Road Maintenance Engineer and will
assist and advise him on all aspects of highway maintenance planning,
organization and operations, including but not limited to:
(i) reviewing and evaluating existing inventories, records and other
data and carrying out additional surveys and investigations for
preparing updated inventories for the road network;
(ii) identifying for each road section the type and amount of work
required for adequate maintenance and translating such works into
specific tasks in terms of routine/periodic maintenance;
(iii) reviewing and updating existing data on highway traffic counts,
axle loads, origin and destination data and traffic forecasts;
(iv) establishing performance standards and procedures for routine and
periodic maintenance involving an appropriate mix of labor and
equipment;



- 59 -
Annex 5
Page 4
(v) installing a system of cost accounting procedures to facilitate
determining the cost of individual road rehabilitation and
maintenance operations and the total cost of maintaining
individual road sections, relating costs to physical environments
and traffic;
(vi) operating the highway maintenance organization, including
equipment management and control, work scheduling and budgeting;
(vii)  selecting key road maintenance staff, in-luding staff concerned
with equipment operation and maintenance, for training for
training at the Road Maintenance Training Center; and
(viii) training counterpart staff.
C. Road Maintenance Superintendent (30 months)
Qualifications:
7.        The road maintenance superintendent should be a technician with
15-20 years experience in the construction and maintenance of
bituminous-surfaced, gravel and earth roads, including the design and use
of bituminous mixes and the testing of soils and materials; should be
conversant with unit costing and similar management systems and controls
and have suitable experience in equipment usage and control and in labor
intensive methods of road construction and maintenance. He should also
have experience at supervisory level in a government road organization and
should have previous experience in organizing and conducting training
programs for staff. He should also be fluent in written and spoken
English.
Duties:
8.        He will report the Chief Road Maintenance Engineer and will
assist and advise him on all aspects of road maintenance, including but not
limited to:
(i) planning and implementing routine and periodic maintenance work;
(ii) developing maintenance costs and budgets;



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 5
(iii) establishing performance standards and procedures for routine and
periodic maintenance including the use of labor-based methods
wherever technically and economically feasible;
(iv) instructing road maintenance personnel in proper work execution
and demonstrating how required standards of maintenance can be
obtained;
(v) directing and controlling the deployment of equipment assigned to
areas of operation; and
(vi) establishing training production units and training of local
staff.
D. Equipment Maintenance Engineer (24 months)
Qualifications:
9.        The equipment maintenance engineer should be a qualified,
professional mechanical engineer with 10-15 years experience in the
operation and management of equipment fleets, including road
construction/maintenance plant and vehicles; should have sufficient
experience in management of spare parts inventories and workshops in a
government highway/roads organization. In addition, he should have
previous experience in organizing and conducting training programs for
staff. Fluency in written and spoken English and the ability to
communicate ideas easily are also required.
Duties:
10.       He will report to the Chief Mechanical Engineer and will assist
and advise him on all matters concerning fleet and workshop management and
control, including but not limited to:
(i) establishment of a practical comprehensive management system
including information systems, (equipment availability,
utilization, costing and control) and budgeting systems creating
appropriate incentives for efficiency and providing for the
ultimate replacement of the equipment;



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 6
(ii) reviewing and updating of existing inventories of equipment and
spare parts, and establishing a continuous stock verification
system;
(iii) forecasting needs, establishing maintenance parts and components
maximum-minimum stock levels;
(iv) establishing an efficient system for spare parts distribution and
control;
(v) preparing specifications and bid documents for procuring road
maintenance and workshop equipment, tools and spare parts,
evaluating bids and inspecting equipment, spare parts and tools
upon delivery;
(vi) setting up a preventive maintenance schedule for road maintenance
equipment and instituting standard equipment repair and overhaul
procedures; and
(vii), training of local staff.
E. Mechanical Superintendent (24 months)
Qualifications:
11.        The mechanical superintendent should be a technician qualified
in the mechanical field with 15-20 years experience in the operation and
management of equipment fleets, including road construction/maintenance
plant and vehicles; should have sufficient experience in workshop
management in a government road organization and should have previous
experience in organizing and conducting training programs for staff. He
should also be fluent in written and spoken English.
Duties:
12.       He will report to the Chief Mechanical Engineer and will assist
and advise him on all matters concerning workshop management and control,
including but not limited to:



- 62 -
Annex 5
Page 7
(i) routine administrative matters concerning workshop management;
(ii) reviewing and updating equipment and spare parts inventories and
establishing a continuous stock verification system;
(iii) establishing maintenance parts and components maximum-minimum
stock levels;
(iv) establishing an efficient system for spare parts distribution and
control;
(v) setting up a preventive maintenance schedule for all types of
equipment and instituting standard equipment repair and overhaul
procedures;
(vi) establishing standards for machineship production; and
(vii) carrying out on-the-job training of mechanics, plant and vehicle
operators.
F. Training Instructor (Civil) (24 months)
Qualifications:
13.       The training instructor (civil) should be technologist having 10
to 15 years experience in road construction and maintenance of
bituminous-surfaced, gravel and earth roads; should be familiar with the
selection and use of soils and materials, and of equipment used and be
familiar with methods using an appropriate mix of labor and equipment on
such works including labor-intensive methods; should have a background in
curriculum development and practical training, and be able to train road
maintenance personnel, especially road maintenance foremen, plant and
vehicle operators, on-the-job and in the classroom; must be fluent in
English and be able to communicate with technicians.
Duties:
14.       Will report to the Chief Training Officer and will assist and
advise him on all matters concerning training of road maintenance foremen
and staff, including plant and vehicle operators, including but not limited
to:



- 63 -
Annex 5
Page 8
(i) reviewing training needs of staff;
(ii) developing specific courses of instruction and preparing
curricula of studies; and
(iii)   imparting on-the-job and class room instructions.
G. Training Instructor (Mechanical) (24 months)
Qualifications:
15.       The training instructor (mechanical) should be technologist
qualified in the mechanical field, with 10-15 years experience in the
operation and management of road construction/maintenance plant and
vehicles; should have a background in curriculum development and practical
training in either Government or private industry and be able to communicte
with tradesmen and technicians.
Duties:
16.       Will report to the Chief Training Officer and will assist and
advise him in all matters concerning training of mechanical staff,
including but not limited to:
(i) reviewing training needs of staff;
(ii) developing specific courses of instruction and preparing
curricula of studies; and
(iii)  imparting on-the job and classroom instructions.
VI. Data, Local Services and Facilities to be Provided by Government
17.       The Government shall provide the technical assistance team with
all available information, studies and reports required for their services,
and will assign suitable counterparts to work with them. It shall also
provide them necessary office space, furniture, equipment and office
supplies, as well as secretarial and clerical services. They shall,
however, make their own arrangements for living accommodation and local
transportation.



- 64 -
Annex 5
Page 9
V. Reports
18.       The consultants shall submit quarterly progress reports (3 copies
each to Government and the International Development Association)
summarizing accomplishments during the reporting period and total progress
since the start of the work and identifying any problems encountered in the
work with recommendations for corrective action.



- 65 -
Annex 6
Page 1
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PRJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE STUDY
Draft Terms of Reference
I. Objectives
1.        The purpose of the study is to draw up a three-year road
maintenance program (1988-90) for the classified road network in Uganda
following completion of the current program.
II. Scope of Consulting Services
A. General
2.        The consultants shall carry out all field investigations,
organizational, engineering, economic and financial studies and related
work required to achieve the objectives in Section I.  In the conduct of
their work, the consultants shall cooperate fully with the Government
ministries and departments responsible for highway planning, construction
and development; the Government will provide the consultants with the data,
services nd facilities outlined in Section III. The consultants shall have
sole responsibility for the analysis and interpretation of all data
received and for the conclusions and recommendations in their reports.
3.        The consultants shall base their recommendations for achieving
the above objectives on considerations of economic feasibility with due
regard to financial and other conditions prevailing in Uganda and shall
present their findings and recommendations in the reports listed in Section
IV.
B. Review of Current Situation
4.        The consultants shall:
(i) review and evaluate records and other data and carry out
additional surveys and investigations for updating inventories of
the existing road network;



- 66 -
Annex 6
Page 2
(ii) review current road maintenance operations, volume of maintenance
work carried out on different roads and maintenance methods used;
and
(iii) review current maintenance organization, including:
(a) the personnel structure, lines of authority, staffing,
employment policies, training facilities and training
programs;
(b) the planning, budgetary, accountancy and management
information systems employed;
(c) the manpower and workshop facilities available for repair
and servicing of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) the road maintenance equipment fleet and related spare parts
stocks, and the availability and utilization of equipment.
C. Road Maintenance Program
5.        On the basis of the analysis of findings of Section B and other
considerations described in this section, the consultants shall draw up a
road maintenance program to be carried out by the MOW over a three-year
period. The program shall be based on technical and economic criteria and
shall take into account Government's plans for the development of the road
system, as well as growth of traffic during the program period. The
consultants shall also identify all investment, operational,
organizational, budgetary and other requirements necessary to implement the
program.  The consultants' report shall delineate recommendations on:
(a) the proposed road maintenance program, including a detailed time
schedule for its implementation and associated requirements for
labor, material, equipment, spare parts, workshop facilities,
road camps, etc.;
(b) economic justification and criteria used for selection of
individual program components that are proposed;



- 67 -
Annex 6
Page 3
(c) the proposed methods of execution of works (contract/force
account);
(e) estimates of financial and economic costs of the recommended
program broken down into local and foreign components;
(e) estimates of the annual budget allocations (capital and
recurrent) required to implement the program;
(f) possible improvements in road maintenance planning, organization
and operations;
(g) suitable levels of maintenance for different road types and
traffic levels, incorporating an assessment of the effect of
different levels of maintenance on pavement life, maintenance
costs and vehicle operating costs;
(h) establishment of performance standards and procedures for routine
and periodic maintenance involving an appropriate mix of labor
and equipment;
(i) regulation of traffic (axle loads and dimensions of vehicles) and
administrative arrangements for their implementation; and
(j) any technical assistance that might be required for implementing
the recommended maintenance program, training program and other
findings of the study.
III.  Data, Local Services and Facilities to be provided by the Government
A.  Data
6.        The Government shall provide the consultants with:
(i) any available information and studies required for the services:
(ii) appropriate highway traffic count data; and



- 68 -
Annex 6
Page 4
(iii) assistance in undertaking additional highway inventories, traffic
counts, and other field investigations.
B. Cooperation of Government Agencies and Counterparts
7.        The Government will provide for the cooperation of Government
ministries, departments and other agencies as required for carrying out the
work and will allow the consultants full access to all information required
for the completion of the work.
8.        The Government will assign suitable counterparts to work with the
key personnel of the consultants.
C. Facilities
9.        The consultants will make their own arrangements for all
necessary office and living accommodations, local transportation, supplies,
etc., in connection with the services to be provided.
IV. Time Schedule for Consulting Services and Reports
10.       The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports
(all in English) within the time limits specified below:
(i)  Inception Report:  (5 copies within I month of starting date of
study) summarizing initial findings of the consultants and giving
proposals for the conduct of the study;
(ii)  Draft Final Report:  (5 copies within 3 months of starting date
of the study) summarizing all work performed and their findings
and recommendations. This report shall include all material to
be presented in the Final Report for comments by the Government;
and
(iii)  Final Report:  (number of copies to be decided by Government
within 30 days of receipt of the Government's comments on the
draft Final Report) incorporating all revisions deemed
appropriate by the consultants and the Government.



- 69 -
Annex 6
Page 5
11.       The consultants shall submit three copies each of the reports
outlined in (i) - (iii) above to the International Development Association.



- 70 -
Annex 7
Page 1
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
OUTLINE PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
The Domestic Construction/Contracting Industry
1.0       Introduction
The proposed project would include a component related to the
strengthening of the local construction industry executing road works.
2.0       Objective
The objective would be to improve the efficiency (i.e. cost
effectiveness) and capability (i.e. capacity and competence) of domestic
contractors.
3.0       Phased Approach
This project component would constitute the initial phase of what
should be a long-term effort. This phase would include domestic contrac-
tors currently engaged in minor road upgrading and periodic maintenance
works, which is considered to be a basic road work activity and, thus,
would provide a suitable launching platform for this effort.
4.0       Contractor's Eligibility Criteria
About 10 local contractors are currently engaged in road
upgrading and periodic maintenance works. Among them, those domestic
contractors will be eligible for special assistance who lack qualified
human, financial and physical rousrces to compete successfully in bidding
for this type of civil engineering work and to meet MOW contractual
requirements.
5.0       Selection of Contractors
MOW will provide the IDA with a list of all contractors referred
to in para. 4 and an assessment of each, related to his eligibility for
assistance, together with an indication of the proposed contractors to be



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 2
finally selected for special attention. The latter should be listed
potential for imporvement based on past performance and general business
attitude.
6.0       Selection of Road Sections
MOW will also make available to the IDA a list of road sections
(including terminal points, length, width and estimated cost) earmarked for
award to eligible contractors.
7.0       Introduction of Competitive Bidding
7.1       Competitive bidding will be introduced in stages according to the
level of training provided to the selected contractors. Progress will
largely depend on the receptivity of the selected contractors and whether
or not a business environment will be established which is conducive to
competitive bidding such as an incentive by adequate demand, normal avail-
ability of resources (e.g. spare parts), and prompt payment of amounts due
to contractors.
7.2       The stages planned for introducing competitive bidding are:
(a)       First year (FY 1985) -
(i) Present procurement procedure, i.e. contracts based on MOW fixed
unit prices are being awarded to contractors designated to exe-
cute works in particular areas, will be basically maintained.
However, contractors will be requested to express their own cost
assessment by altering the unit prices up to + 10 percent without
changing the total price.
(ii)  Trainers will review the revised unit prices with the contractor
on the basis of his estimating system and suggest improvements.
(iii)  Bidding and contract documents will be updated to meet modern re-
quirements for this type of wrork.
(b)       Second year (FY 1986) -



- 72 -
Annex 7
Page 3
MOW will still provide estimated unit prices but bids will not be
limited to + 10 percent of MOW price; competition among all road
work contractors.
(c)       Third year (FY 1987) -
Unrestricted local competitive bidding on unit price basis with-
out any MOW price guidance.
8.0       Change of Prevailing Procurement Procedure
MOW will announce the change of the prevailing procedure (para.
7(a)(i)) in advance to enable all local contractors an adequate preparation
for the challenge.
9.0       Provision of Trainers/Advisers
9.1       The trainers cum advisers will be provided by a company which
has, inter alia,
(a)       special experience in carrying out contract work associated with
risks inherent in this type of business,
(b)       a fair knowledge of the current conditions in Uganda, and
(c)       an international range of activities including a high level of
technical achievements in all types of road work.
9.2       A preliminary list of proposed companies of international repute
will be prepared by MOW together with an outline of a proposed contract and
draft terms of reference for IDA's comments.
10.0      Training Arrangements
10.1      Training of their managers is an important assistance to these
domestic contractors to meet the challenge of competition successfully.
This will be provided by brief seminars, follwed by on-the-job training,
and periodically monitoring of the progress achieved.



- 73 -
Annex 7
Page 4
10.2      For training of other personnel, existing training facilities
will be utilized as much as feasible and practical, preferably in joint
courses for MOW and contractors' personnel of the same level of technical
requirements. MOW will, therefore, admit contractors' staff to its train-
ing courses related to road works against a fee covering its own cost.
11.0      Contracts' Financial Aspects
The need for significant working capital will be almost complete-
ly eliminated by offering payment terms which respond to arrangements made
and work performed by a contractor. This will essentially meet a contrac-
tor's liquidity requirements. Thses payment terms shall not impose any
considerable, additional risk on MOW, but would provide a significant in-
centive for a contractor to perform reasonably well.
12.0      Equipment Needs
Under the phase of the proposed project, only a small number of
domestic contractors will receive special assistance which may include the
provision of some complementary plant to work with one complete spread of
equipment efficiently. While in future phases other arrangements for the
provision of equipment on a larger scale would be required, to start with,
however, MOW will, if requested by a selected contractor, provide (e.g.
rent) these pieces of equipment at reasonable rates.



- 74 -
Annex 8
Page 1
UGANDA
THIRD HIGRWAY PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
1.        Progress Reports shall be submitted to the Association quarterly
in triplicate, no later than one calendar month after the end of the
quarter. The first report should cover the period ending December 1984.
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
(i) General Information: (This should refer to Project Monitoring
Indices shown in the Attachment)
(a) the physical progress accomplished during the reporting
period;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project
implementation schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect
on the implementation schedule and the steps planned or
taken to overcome the difficulties and avoid delays;
(d) expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
(e) key personnel changes in the staffs of the MOW, consultants
or contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the project cost; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of the project components.
(ii) A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component.
(iii) A financial statement set out in tabular form which shows for
each of the project components:



- 75 -
Annex 8
Page 2
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;
(c) actual expenditure;
(d) projected expenditure; and
(e) actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(iv) The status of action on each of the covenants of the Credit
Agreement.



- 76 -
Annex 8
Page 3
PROdECT MONITORING INDICES
as of (date)
Corrective
Actual                  Action
as Z of Reasons for Planned
Estimated Actual Estimated Divergence or Taken
I.    Road Resealing
and Regravelling
1. Preliminaries to mobilization (months)
2.  Resealing (km)
3.  Regravelling (km)
4. Payments to Contractors
II.   Improvement to Road
Maintenance Training Center
and Workshops
1. Preliminaries to start (months)
2. Construction (months, by item)
III.  Road Maintenance Equipment
1. Preliminaries to equipment delivery (months)
2. Delivery and installation (date, by item)
3. Payment to suplliers
IV.   Workshop Equipment
1. Preliminaries to equipment delivery (months)
2. Delivery and installation (date, by item)
3. Payment to suppliers
V.    Training Aids
1. Preliminaries to delivery (month)
2. Delivery of training aids (date, by item)
3. Payment to suppliers
VI.   Road Maintenance Study
1. Preliminaries to Start (months)
2. Inception Report (date)
3. Draft Final Report (date)



- 77 -
Annex 9
Table 1
Table 7
UGANDA
Third Highway Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(1982)
(US$ per km)
PAVED ROADS
Condition        Roughness        L.G.V.        M.G.V.         H.G.V.
mm/km
1              1,500           0.26          0.53          0.73
2              2,000           0.27          0.55          0.76
3              2,500           0.29          0.57          0.79
4              3,000           0.31          0.58          0.82
5              4,000           0.34          0.62          0.88
6              5,000           0.37          0.66          0.94
GRAVEL ROADS
Condition        Roughness        L.G.V.        M.G.V         H.G.V.
mm/km
1              4,000           0.35          0.65          0.90
2              5,000           0.38          0.68          0.96
3              6,000           0.41          0.72          1.02
4              7,000           0.43          0.75          1.08
5              8,000           0.46          0.78          1.14
6              9,000           0.49          0.82          1.20



- 78 -
Annex 9
Table 2
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHIWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
TRAFFIC COUNT LOCATIONS
MOW                                                               Primary                 1982
Count                                        Location            Secondary    Paved   Estimated
Centre                                                              or          or        AADT
Number                                                            Tertiary    Gravel
1.  Kampala                           Before Mukono                 P         Paved     1101
2.  Mukono-Kayunga                    After Makifuma                S         Paved       260
3.  Kayunga-Jinja                      Near Kagulumira              T         Paved       312
4.  Kampala-Entebbe                    Before Kajansi               P         Paved      2068
5.  Kampala-Hoima                      After Busunju                P         Gravel      196
6.  Kampala-Mi tyana                                                          Paved       289
7.  Kampala-Jinja                     Near Bulamagi                 P         Paved      1870
8.  Kampala-Masaka                     After Buddo                  P         Paved      1404
9.  Pakwach-Arua                      Near Nebbi                    P         Gravel       64
10.  Pakwach-Arua                      Near Arua                     P         Gravel      112
11.  Gulu-Karuma                       After Panwo                   P         Paved       128
12.  Gulu-Pakwach                      After Olwiyo                  P         Gravel      437
13.  Gulu-Lira                         Near Aboke                    T         Gravel       63
14.  Gulu-Atiak-Nimule                 Before Atiak                  P         Gravl        44
15.  Mbarara-Kikagati                  Near Gayaza                   S         Gravel       37
16.  Mbara-Ntungamo-Kabale             Before Ntungamo               P         Paved      213
17.  Ntungamo-Ishaka                    Before Kagamba               S         Gravel       54
18.  Ntungamo-Rukungiri                After Kebisoni                T         Gravel       72
19.  Kasese-Kilembe                                                  T         Gravel     416
20.  Masindi-Kafu-Bridge                Before Wiobulenzi            P         Gravel       56
Kampala                           After Kafu Bridge
21.  Fort Portal-Kasese-Katungure    Before Equator Road             P         Paved       214
22.  Katunguru-Ishasha                                               S         Gravel       19
23.  Kafu Bridge-Karuma                 Kigumba                      P         Paved       115
24.  Fort Portal-Kyenjojo                                            P         Gravel       69
25.  Fort.Portal-Bundibugyo                                          S         Gravel       10
26.  Kabale-Kisoro                                                   P         Gravel      111
27.  Iganga-Terinyi-Mbale               Before Pallisa Road          P         Gravel      325
28.  Jinja-Kamuli                       Before Bulangala             T         Paved       357
29.  Mbale-Tororo                       8 kms from Mbale             P         Paved       853
30.  Tororo-Iganga-Jinja                Before Iganga                P         Paved      1078
31.  Tororo-Iganga-Jinja                Before Buwayo                P         Paved       553
32.  Mbale-Kumi                         Before Kumi                  P         Paved       379
33.  Soroti-Moroto                      After Akisim                 S         Gravel       33
34.  Mbale-Kapchorwa-Suam               After Sipi                   S         Gravel       42
35.  Soroti-Lira                        Before Otuboi                P         Gravel       65
36.  Ishaka-Rukungiri                   Before Fuhind                T         Gravel       67
37.  Katunguru-Ishaka                   After Kikakora               P         Paved       162
38.  Masaka-Kyotara-Mutukulu            Before Kyotara               P         Paved       859
39.  Masaka-Mbarara                     Before Lyantonde             P         Paved       366
Source:  MOW and Consultants Louis Berger.



Mr'. A
Third Highway Project
Economic Analysis
Distance (Km)    Total link           ERR 6%                                    ERR 3%
Traffic  to_be reravelLed    length           Traffic Growth    C + 10%   B - 10%  Traffic Growth
Regravelling Program
First Phase
034  Masake-Mutukula              945              2               87               383              348        345          380
129  Gulu-Pakwach                 480             3               12.1              113              102        101          110
076  Mbale-Tirinyi                357              3               52               126              114        113           123
042  Bukoboli-Tirinya             357            47                47               126              114        113           123
028  Mityana-Nabingoro            318            38               127                93               84         83            90
007  Gayaza-kalagi                286             22               22                93               84         83            90
053  Busia-Mbale                  235            26                26                58               52         51            56
069  Namulu-Nadunget              110            24               122                23               19         18            20
028  Mlltyana-Nabingoro           318            89               127                93               84         83            90
114  Hoima-Busunju                215            72                94                59               52         52            56
002  Kampala-Hoima                215            48               103                59               52         51            56
093  Kabale-Bunagana              122            43                90                46               40         39            43
069  Namalu-Nadunget              110             12              122                40               35         34            37
077  Namusi-Namalu                110            26               101                24               20         19            21
134  Pakwach-Arua                  97           132               132                33               28         27           30
Second Phase
009  Kanyunga-Nabuganyi           315           20                 20                96               86         85            93
010  Kayunga-Bale                 315           44                 44                96               87         86            93
094  Kabale-Katuna                215           22                 22                85               77         76            83
093  Kabale-Bunagana              122           23                 90                48               42         41            45
078  IThale-Pallisa               121           46                 52                21               17         17            19
069  Nanmalu-Nadunget             110           28                122                41               36         36            39
074  Namalu-Lokapel               110           25                 52                41               36         36            39
043  Kamuli-Nabuganyi             100           16                 16                21               17         16            18
113  Hoima-Masindi                 84           52                 52                27               22         22           24
017  Bukasa rifle range            79            8                  8                25               20         20            22
111  Kagamba-Rukungiri             79           34                 34                24               19         19           21
085  Fort Portal-Kampala           76           94                 94                22               18         17            19
Total km    999                   Overall ERR    59                 53         52           56



UGANDA
Third Highway Project
Economic Analysis
Distance (km)   Total link           EER 6%                               ERR 3%
Reasealing programme                 Traffic  to be resealed        length        Traffic Growth C+ 10%  B - 10%  Traffic Growth
First Phase
020  Kampala-Port Bell                       3052           5               5              167            151       150          164
005  Kampala-Entebbe                         2274          29              29              121            109       108          118
012  Makindge lodge road (Kampala)           1990           3               3              161            146       144          158
022  Tank hill road                          1314           5               5              102             91        90           99
036  Nyendo-Villa Maria                       506          13              13               60             53        52           57
034  Masaka-Mutukula                          945         40              87                97             86        85           94
027  Pope Paul VI road                        485           6               6               44             38        37           41
016  Mukono-Jukani railway station road  433                5               5               32             26        26           29            1
023  Kyambogo estate roads                    399           5               5               43             37        36           40
045  Jinja-Kamuli                             393          57              57               29             24        23           26            C
001  Kampala-Mityana                          318          52              52               28             22        22           25             1
075  Mbale Kuni                               417          29              52               33             27        27           30
Second Phase
034  Masaka-Mutukula                          945          29             87               106             95        94          103
099  Kasese-Kilemnbe                          457           3               9               42             35        35           39
059  Soroti-Kumi                              417          30             47                47             41        40           44
075  Mhale-Kuml                               417         20              52                47             41        40           45
102  Mbarara-Masaka                           402          56             63                45            38         38           42
033  Mbarara-Masaka                           402          32             74                45             38        38           42
006  Kampala-Gayaza                           286          13              16               17             12        11           14
008  Mukono-Kayonga                           286          50             50                24             18        18           21
096  Fort-Portal-Mbarara                      235         115            230                15             10        10           13
Total km      597               Overall ERR   45               40         38           42
(D >J
-P MD



- 81 -
Annex 9
Table 5
UGANDA
Third Highway Project
Routine Maintenance Program
Paved Roads
Economic Analysis
Recurrent
Capital          Maintenance            VOC        Net
Year             Cost 1/            Costs              Savings  Savings
1985             4,707                  0                    0
1986                                3,140               5,973    2,833
1987                                2,379               4,655    2,276
1988                                3,686                7,418    3,732
1989                                3,686                7,641    3,773
1990                                3,686                7,870    4,184
1991                                3,686                8,106    4,420
ERR = 61.7%
Sensitivity   Costs + 10% = 49.6%
Benefits - 10% = 48.4%
Costs + 10% + Benefits - 10% = 37%
1/ UstOOO



- 82 -
Annex 9
Table 6
UGANDA
Third Highway Project
Routine Maintenance Program
Gravel Roads
Economic Analysis
Recurrent
Capital          Maintenance          VOC         Net
Year             Cost 1/             Costs          Savings    Savings
1985             4,175                   0                0
1986                                2,526             5,333       2,807
1987                                2,294             4,806       2,512
1988                                2,744             5,792       3,048
1989                                2,744             5,966       3,222
1990                                2,744             6,145       3,401
1991                                2,744             6,329       3,585
ERR = 65.3%
Sensitivity   Costs + 10% = 52.9%
Benefits - 10% = 51.6%
Costs + 10% + Benefits - 10% = 40%
I/ US'000



- 83 -
Annex 10
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.   Highway Maintenance and Organization Study, Draft Final Report
December 1982, Louis Berger International Inc.
2.   Highway Maintenance and Organization Study, Addendum April 1983.
3.   Highway Maintenance and Organization Study, Cost Analysis April 1983.
4.   Highway Maintenance and Organization Study, Final Report June 1983.



UGANDA
THlIRD DIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THS MINISTRY OF WORXS
MINISTER
PERMANENT SECRETARY
ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF
_ |   i                   {   ~~~~~~~FINANCIAL &                                                                                         4-  _         
TECENICAL                                 AMINISTRATION                                  HIGHWA DIVISION                       S.ORIES DIVISION
DTVISION                                    DIVISION                                                                                  DIV_I.NI
DEPUTY ENGINEER                            UNDER SECRETARY                                 DEPUTY ENGINEER                         CHIEF SJU'??LY
IN-CHIEF                                                                                    INCNIEF                                OFFICER
|MAINENANCE     rNING       LAORATOR         ECCAL        ACCOING        ADMINISTRATIVE              PING          DESIGN       CONSTRUCTION    PUlCNASING       STORES
SECTION      SECTION       SECTION         SECTION       SECON N         SECTION                   SECTON        SECTION        SECT1ON         SECTIO'        SECTON
1C
li-H



UGANDA
-IRD UICHWAV PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF ROAD MAINTENANCE
SECTION OF TECHNICAL DIVISION
UNDER MINISTRY OF WORKS
C'IgEF ROAD
MAINTEMACE
ESNGINEER
SENIOR EXECUTIV9    SENIOR EXEECUTIVE                                            ENGR.
ENGENEER                                                ENCINEER                                     SENIOR EXECNTIVE
EAsTeRN   CENTRAL                                       NORTEeRN & IENNNER
AREAS                                                   WESTER1N AREAS                                SPECIAE  PROJOCES
F-       I                                                         - I  -I--
__Ri      _              ARU-A                         AREA                       AREA
ENGINEER                 ENGINWER                      ENGINEER                   ENGINGER
EXEaUTIVE ENCR.          EXECUTIVE ENGR.               EXECUTIVE ENG8.            EXECUTIVE XNCR.
DIST'RIUr                 DISTRICT                      DISIRICT.                  DISTRICT
ENGINEERS                 ENGINEERS                     ENGINEERS                  ENGINEERS
ROAD                      ROAD                          RtOAD                      ROAD
INSPECORS                 INsPEcIroRS                   INSPECTORS                 INSPECT-ORS
| ROAD                       ROAD                          P  OAD                      ROAD
OVERSEERS              |OV RSEERS                        OVEORSEERS l                OVERSEERS
| ROAD                j     ROAD       l             l     OAD                         ROAD 
R ADMDEN                    R  UADM1CN                     HEADIE                    B  EADHf N
UOR  GAG                  WORKt GANGS                   WORX GANGS                  WOIIY GANGS 



86 -                                                       CHART III
UGANDA
THtiRD RICIIWAY Prim.cr
PRaUICT INPLP34P.TATION sCtiHmtr.t
1904                     1985                      1986                       1957
win aT1XITIE5                        RISPSISILITr
J I N A N J J A S 0 1 D J F M A 7 J J A S 0 t D J P I A N J J A 9 0 D D J r P    A N J J A S 0 N D
Asoctattofn Approval                                          *
Sigptng Credit Agreemeft                                        a
Cradit gffectivenaes                                                    *
1. Rawkd_salin  *.ad
lBrealllti .
.irnt Phase loads
Selectiot of Consultant          Govt.
Pftearatioc of lidding
DocuOnts                        Consultant
PrqUalificatlo  of
Contractors                    .Govt.
Bidding                          Contractors
BLd %valuation to
Contract Award                  Govt.
LoMcution of Work                Contractors
3.   lood phase loans
prapratioc of Siddlog
Docuents                        Cosultant
rtaoallfication of
Contractors                     Govt.
Ri4ding                          Coatractora
d tvaluostiLoO to
Contract Awsrd                   Govt.
lmoatloa of Uork                 Contractors
Z. kwsrtc  of loamtton
of  _ot                         Conit&at
3.  1aoareint of NOW
J Intaroce And Workshop
l,vipo.at, Spero Parts
S   Tools
Selation of COnDultant           Govt.
Preparation of
Procurasot Documents            Consultant
iddding                          Contractors
114 Ivaluatioa to
Contract Award                   Govt.
Delivery                          Supplier()
4. Pt_araot of Spare PartS
for fmadtiSn iquipsot
p training Aid.
CIlling of Quotations
to AJard of Contract            Govt.
3nliary                           Supplier()_
3. Zrvasunt to  ad
Ikiatanasc Training
1ennl sod MIl lorkahtops
tlUalification of
Contractors                     Govt.
Tender Arrangements to
Go,ttratt Award                  Govt.
locution of 'dark                Contractors
6.        of Fool a Bittsen          Supplier(s)                                    ______
7. Rxecution of routine Road
aint-ence        _.
C. Taehnicai Asistance
Sn ecton of consulting
Fi r                            Govt.
aescutiGn of Technitcal
MAsistance                      Consultants 
i. Freperation of future
lad4  leante.ance Progra
Selection of Consultants         Go0t.
'   treparsalon of Pro2rgs            Consultant
10. Pilot ?rcgrae for
*  -vl>opanot of tocal
Catrwrtton  Indu-trK              Govt./Amsociation



UG3ANDA/ 
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                             SJUD A N                                                                  /
HIGHWAY NETWORK/
R-A d       ..dT T bT TMOW.                                                                                                                        /'
-PTT4T - iruer                                    I           '. _-
S-A.. .    ....TovI                       f
TTTTNNTTygTTTTI  I                                N               kITONJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            \ ~     KEFN         YA
Othrer TOT                     L                   2',
(   NrTo... Ia,N -                                     -                                       t      PTLTtANn
MAOW  dTTT,-bou-doT,e-         <         'KK
MASAKA D,TTrTTT- IOTT                                    .7             9  (/
01]AT..  -TrhS4T                                NEBB14                     F      tJ--'4                                                                          -                  .oE
-.--,TTNCTTTITOCTTTI..                                              -                    44       - %k-T 
N"   .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~-
___   ________                     >~1                 4TTTT                ~                  -   '>9    43                                    ,                 .           
Z   A         S              'E                           1~TAt9A SIN.                                                          5             4,         '- 
F.,                         /                                                     -TN~~4IJER   [,   -
I                  -~~~~~~~~~        j    ~~~~~~~~    r -  
% ~ ~ ~   ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~ ~ ~                                             
/~~~Z                    ANV % 
RUKUNG(Rt                                                                                                                   N 74MO              I               N'TTA                    /     4
-  '~~~N1o4-To  K  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~              1 I   '9 4Nu~~~~~~o4ogo                              "'                Bydudo~~~~A ~
TM   V                                   LFWERO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K,..                                                                                          L&A
F  ,.r   ~~~'~'                                                       1        I~~4W4TY0'9>             N   j                             T 4>~A-
4                          0 A/ N7Q04A



