Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE CP
Report No. P-3729-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 56.1 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 22, 1984
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1983)
Currency Unit                   Uganda Shillings (USh)
US$ 1.00              5         USh 240 (First Window)
US$ 1.00                        USh 297.6 (Second Window)
USh 1.00              =         US$ 0.0042 (First Window)
USh 1.00                        US$ 0.0034 (Second Window)
From October 1975 to May 1981, the Ugandan shilling was tied to the Special
Drawing Right (SDR) of the IMF (SDR 1.00 = USh 9.66). However, the Ugandan
shilling was devalued by 90% in June 1981 and has subsequently been float-
ing in relation to a basket of currencies. Since August 1982, the Bank of
Uganda has operated a dual exchange rate system, including a second window
at which foreign exchange is traded wmre freely. The first and second
window exchange rates are expected to approach each other and merge in the
near future; therefore, an exchange rate of USh 250 to the US dollar has
been used for cost and benefit estimates in the Staff Appraisal Report.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EAC   =  East African Community
ICB   =  International Competitive Bidding
MOT   =  Ministry of Transport
MOW   =  Ministry of Works
MPED  =  Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
PTC      People's Transport Company
RMTC  =  Road Maintenance Training Center
URC   =  Uganda Railway Corporation
UTC   =  Uganda Transport Company
UTCU  =  Uganda Transport Cooperative Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Uganda
Amount:          SDR 56.1 million (US$58.0 million) equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Project          The proposed project is designed to help improve the main-
Objectives and  tenance of Uganda's rapidly deteriorating classified road
Description:    network, train the Ministry of Work's (MOW's) road main-
tenance personnel, re-establish MOW's capability for road
maintenance, develop local construction industry, improve
the country's transport sector management, and improve and
enforce vehicle weight and traffic safety regulations. The
project would comprise programs, to be implemented over a
four-year period [1984-87, including one year (1984) of
tendering and mobilization], for resealing and regraveling
of about 600 km of bitumen-surfaced and about 1,000 km of
gravel roads, and for routine maintenance of the country's
7,540 km classified road network. Technical assistance to
MOW and to the Ministry of Transport (MOT), a pilot program
for the development of the local construction industry, and
preparation work for a future road maintenance program
would also be included in the proposed project.
Risks:           The project has been designed so as to reduce implementa-
tion risks as much as possible. The remaining main risk is
the still unsettled political and security situation in the
country. Under prevailing conditions, the project as
designed is feasible. A deterioration, however, could have
adverse effects on project implementation, both in terms of
cost and completion, and in a severe case may even require
some revision of the project scope. Other risks, such as
MOW's lack of familiarity with Bank Group procurement
procedures, poor staff morale in MOW due to low salaries,
and possible shortages of local funds to carry out the
project, are being minimized as far as possible by using
contractors for all resealing and regraveling work, and by
intensive implementation supervision particularly during
the first years of project execution, including continuous
checks on budget allocations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                              Local   Foreign   Total
Costs:                                                       (US$ million)-
Resealing and Regraveling
of Roads                            10.0      20.9      30.9
Equipment, Spare Parts and Tools    1.2          11.1     12.3
Fuel and Bitumen                       3.9        8.1     12.0
Road Maintenance Training Center
and Workshop Improvement             1.1        0.4      1.5
Consultant Services                    0.7        3.0      3.7
Pilot Program for Development of
Local Construction Industry          0.4        1.6      2.0
Base Cost                           17.3      45.1      62.4
Physical Contingencies               1.7       4.3       6.0
Price Contingencies                 4.0        8.6      12.6
Total Project Cost                 23.0a/    58.0       81.Oa/
a/  Including US$7.0 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
Financing                                              Local   Foreign   Total
Plan:                                                       (US$ million)…----
Proposed IDA Credit                     -        58.0     58.0
Government of Uganda                  23.0         -      23.0
Total Financing                    23.0       58.0      81.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                               ----------(US$ million)----------
IDA Fiscal Year       FY85       FY86       FY87       FY88
Actual                      5.0       17.0       20.0       16.0
Cumulative                  5.0       22.0       42.0      58.0
Rate of          54 percent
Return:
Appraisal        Report No. 4722-UG, dated February 14, 1984.
Report:



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for the equivalent of SDR 56.1
million (US$58.0 million) equivalent on standard IDA terms to help finance
a third highway project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in May-June 1983 and its
report, entitled "Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No.
4733-UG) dated December 9, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A summary of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages:
(a) a favorable climate, fertile soils and rich mineral base for
economic development;
(b) an established indigenous smallholder sector providing a widening
range of export crops and an ample domestic food supply;
(c) a small but rapidly growing industrial sector, contributing
exports of copper and textiles;
(d) a well-developed transport system, including facilities shared
with Kenya and Tanzania under the East African Community (EAC);
(e) an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity, with substantial scope
for further development on the Victoria Nile; and
(f) one of the most advanced education systems in East Africa.
1    Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Second Technical Assistance
Project, Report No. P-3691-UG, dated December 5, 1983, but Part I has
been updated to take account of the findings of the new Country
Economic Memorandum.



- 2 -
The initial years after independence clearly demonstrated the economic
potential of the country. Real GDP grew by 4.8% per annum from 1963 to
1970, implying an increase in per capita terms of at least 2% per annum.
T'he country was also able to maintain a reasonable savings rate (averaging
13%) which permitted implementation of an ambitious investment program
without undue pressure on domestic prices or the balance of payments.
Although Uganda's export volumes grew slowly, export earnings were more
than adequate to cover import requirements and the country maintained a
current account surplus in most years. The Government's budgetary position
was also sound: revenue increased faster than recurrent expenditure during
the latter half of the 1960s and, together with non-bank domestic borrow-
ing, helped finance a significant proportion of development outlays.
4.        However, after the coup in 1971, the situation quickly deterio-
rated. Under the military regime, many skilled personnel left the country,
the parastatal sector became bloated with the addition of many abandoned or
confiscated industries, and professional standards within the administra-
tJion were eroded. On top of these largely self-imposed problems, the
Ugandan economy was shaken by a series of external shocks: the sharp rise
in petroleum prices after 1973, the breakup of the EAC in 1977, and the
damage and looting which occurred during the 1978-79 war. As a result of
these developments, real GDP stagnated through 1977 and then fell over the
next three years. Import levels had to be cut by 50% from 1970 to 1979,
due to lower export volumes, worsening terms of trade (except during the
coffee boom years of 1977-79) and dwindling aid receipts. The Government's
budgetary position also became increasingly untenable, as the revenue base
was undermined and expenditure control collapsed. The resultant deficit
was financed increasingly by bank borrowing, leading to monetary expansion
a.nd price inflation (averaging 74% per annum from 1977 to 1979). Not
surprisingly, critical shortages developed and a large share of economic
activity was diverted to the pervasive parallel market system called
i'magendo".
Recent Developments
5.        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ulgandan economy was in ruins. Initial efforts to promote recovery were
constrained by an unstable political situation, administrative weaknesses'
aLnd a severe shortage of foreign exchange. As a result, many of the
adverse trends evident during the 1970s continued through 1980. In partic-
ular, real GDP continued to decline while the inflation rate rose above
100% per annum.  Then, in mid 1981, the Government made a dramatic break
with the past by announcing a major devaluation of the Ugandan shilling and
related price adjustments. Through a series of financial programs, sup-
ported by assistance from the IMF and other donors, further policy reforms
have been introduced over the past two years (see paragraphs 7 to 9). As a
result, there has been a marked improvement in economic performance,
despite the negative impact of internal security problems and adverse
conditions in the world economy. The difficult security situation results
from the disintegration of law and order during the 1970s and the need to
rebuild the security forces after the 1978-79 war. Although most of the
country is now at peace, periodic incidents have occurred, especially in



- 3 -
the areas surrounding Kampala, disrupting production and transport activi-
ties amd diverting budgetary resources for security-related activities.  As
regards the world economy, although Uganda's terms of trade have improved
since 1981, the index remains at less than half the peaks achieved during
the coffee boom years of 1978-79, and only 65% of the level in 1970.
Equally important, Uganda's export earnings are now constrained by the
quotas on coffee sales imposed under the International Coffee Agreement
(ICA). During 1982/83, for example, Uganda's estimated coffee production
was 40% higher than the quota limit; the balance was either stocked or sold
on non-quota markets at discounts of up to 50%. The combination of
economic recession and tighter fiscal policies in developed countries has
also affected the availability of external assistance. For Uganda, aid
mobilization has been made particularly difficult by the legacy of inter-
national isolation imposed during the 1970s and continuing concern overseas
about the security situation in the country.
6.        The economic recovery is evident in a number of indicators.
(a) GDP grew on average by 5% per annum during 1981 and 1982, and
this growth rate was probably sustained into 1983. The recovery
was initially concentrated in subsistence agriculture but has
been more generalized over the past two years.
(b) Export volumes rose by an estimated 45% from 1980 to 1983, and
would have recovered even more without the coffee quota con-
straint. This export growth, together with improved aid utiliza-
tion during 1983, has helped to finance a much-needed expansion
of import volumes since 1981.
(c) Government revenue has increased more than fourteenfold over the
past two years, from 0.8% to 6.3% of GDP. Expenditure growth on
the other hand has been less rapid, because the Government has
restricted cash release to ministries in order to remain within
the IMF ceilings. Consequently, the budget deficit was held to
about 2% of GDP during 1982/83.
(d)  The resultant restraint on bank borrowing by the Government has
reduced the rate of monetary expansion. This, together with
falling import prices, has helped to control general inflation,
which is down from an estimated 100% per annum in 1980-81 to 45%
in 1982 and about 30% in 1983.
Despite this progress, overall levels of economic activity and trade remain
substantially below the peak levels achieved in the early 1970s. As a
result, per capita GNP is still only two thirds of the 1970 level. The
burden of this income loss falls most heavily on wage and salary earners,
especially in the civil service, who often have to resort to secondary
employment or unofficial activities in order to survive.
The Government's Policies and Programs
7.        The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this,



- 4 -
however, is the goal of rehabilitating the productive sectors. The first
step towards rehabilitation was the introduction of the financial program
for 1981/82, which has been followed by similar programs during 1982/83 and
1983/84. These programs have been supported by three stand-by arrangements
with the --IF (for a total of SDR 320 million), drawings from the First and
Second IDA Reconstruction Credits (providing US$145 million after June
1981) and assistance from other donors. Major actions taken by the
Government are summarized below.
(a)  The official exchange rate was devalued from under USh 8 to USh
78 per US dollar in June 1981, and has subsequently been steadily
depreciated further to USh 240 per US dollar in January 1984.
Since August 1982, the Government has also opened a second window
where foreign exchange is more freely traded in an auction
system. The rate established at the second window has fluctuated
between USh 230 and USh 330 per US dollar over the past year.
These exchange rate adjustments have led to a substantial reduc-
tion in the premium and importance of the unofficial market for
foreign exchange.
(b)  The initial devaluation in June 1981 was accompanied by the
removal of most price controls. The major exceptions were for
producer prices of traditional export crops, retail prices of
petroleum products and utility tariffs. For these controlled
items, significant price increases have been introduced over the
past year. Petroleum prices have been increased by more than
twentyfold since December 1980 to reflect fully the impact of
window-one exchange rate changes. Producer price adjustments
have been more moderate, with increases of about tenfold for most
major export crops. However, these increases are still substan-
tially higher than general inflation and net returns from the
production of all major export crops are now positive. The most
serious lags in price adjustments have been for utility tariffs.
Although all major tariffs have been increased by at least 100%
since 1980, further large adjustments will be required in most
cases to reflect present costs of supply, to provide resources
for future development and to encourage efficient utilization of
services.
(c)  Various measures have been introduced to improve monetary and
fiscal discipline. To help control the demand for money and
allocate credit, most interest rates have been nearly doubled
over the past two years (although they still remain negative in
real terms). As part of its obligations under the IMF stand-by
arrangements, the Government has agreed to and met ceilings on
the growth of net domestic credit and net credit to the Govern-
ment. On the fiscal side, a number of measures were taken in mid
1981 to streamline and improve the elasticity of the taxation
structure. Strict control has also been maintained over cash
releases to ministries, although this has sometimes been at the
cost of underfunding critical functions and the accumulation of
domestic arrears.



- 5 -
8.        The Government's original Recovery Program, which included
proposals for policy and institutional reform as well as a project-specific
investment plan for 1982/83 and 1983/84, was presented to the May 19B2
meeting of the Consultative Group. All participants at the meeting com-
mended the Government's commitment, as reflected in the Recovery Program,
to prioritize its rehabilitation activities and to restrict overall
resource allocations to realistic levels. Following a recent progress
review, the Government published a Revised Recovery Program in Octobaer
1983. This updated document takes account of the resource constraints and
implementation problems encountered over the past year and incorporates
1984/85 fully into the investment plan. However, the broad objectives and
strategy remain the same, focusing on the short-term revival of the produc-
tive sectors. Priority in all sectors is given to rehabilitation and
improved utilization of existing capacity. Although provision has noDw been
made for preparatory work on a number of new projects, most of these do not
involve large expenditures through 1984/85 and are essential to maintain
momentum in later years. The Revised Recovery Program also includes a
number of innovations and changes designed to make it more effective for
decision making and to facilitate project implementation. The only major
gap is a complete review of requirements of recurrent imports and balance
of payment support. Even so, the macro-economic framework of the Revised
Recovery Program is broadly consistent with the World Bank staff projec-
tions presented in the recent Country Economic Memorandum.  Therefores,
provided the key assumptions on the coffee export quota and new commLtments
of external assistance can be realized, the availability of resources
should not act as a constraint on the implementation of the revised invest-
ment plan.  The Revised Recovery Program was discussed at a further meeting
of the Consultative Group on January 25 and 26, 1984, at which participants
again welcomed the strategy and priorities of the Revised Recovery Program,
and the implied level and composition of Uganda's aid requirements for 1984
and 1985 (see paragraph 15 below).
9.        A decisive start to the process of economic recovery has now been
made. The basic priority for further action is to strengthen the adminis-
trative framework for implementing the Government's programs, for carrying
them forward and making them more effective.  In some cases, strengthening
means rebuilding what already existed in the early 1970s; in others, it
means developing new institutions and policies relevant to today's rieal-
ities. The administrative weaknesses faced by Uganda (and many other Sub-
Saharan African countries) are inherently difficult to tackle and progress
will be slow. However, the magnitude of the task ahead should not be
allowed to undermine the commitment to much-needed economic reforms. The
Government has already initiated action in this area: the Report of the
Public Service Salaries Review Commission, which covers many issues
relating to the organization and operation of the civil service besiles
salaries, was presented in November 1982 and is presently under review by
the Government; the Government passed the Expropriated Properties Act in
February 1983 to provide a legal basis for resolving ownership issues, and
is about to start a series of financial and accounting studies on major
parastatal organizations; various measures have been introduced over the
past two years to improve foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing
procedures; and, the Agricultural Policy Committee was established ia



-6-
August 1982 to advise the Government on prices, marketing and resource
allocations for the agricultural sector. Not surprisingly, given the
severe erosion of the country's productive base and infrastructure during
the 1970s, much remains to be done before Uganda's recovery can be con-
sidered complete. But, the Government's Revised Recovery P-ogram and
evolving policies are headed in the right direction, and merit support from
the international community.
Sectoral Priorities
10.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels,
especially of exports. This entails the highest priority initially being
given to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communica-
tions infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, build-
ing materials and agricultural inputs by the industrial sector. Other
sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabilita-
tion. But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must be
limited to the extent of their potential contribution to the recovery
process. Improvements in medical services, the repair of damaged class-
rooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for example,
may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable, incentive to
producers.
11.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's exports in
recent years. Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
mnedium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered periodic food short-
ages as a result of low rainfall and insecurity. The rehabilitation of
agriculture is the top priority for Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee,
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could all continue to grow rapidly over
the next three years (although the previous peak levels are not likely to
be reached until later in the 1980s and coffee exports will probably remain
subject to ICA quota constraints). In addition, scope exists for expanding
non-traditional exports (e.g., hides and skins, foodstuffs and fertilizers)
to neighboring countries. The revival of cotton and other agricultural
production would also supply some domestic industrial needs. During the
rehabilitation phase, the Government has decided to give top priority to
improving incentives, including changes in producer prices and the market-
ing system. Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, implements,
spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate the
production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, will also need more attention.
12.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g., textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, the sector largely



- 7 -
collapsed during the 1970s. Although industrial production did begin to
recover during 1982, performance of the sector remains very uneven, with
many enterprises still closed down and average capacity utilization of only
about 30%. At present, the most obvious and generally binding constraint
is the severe shortage of foreign exchange. However, the longer-term
decline in the sector reflects more fundamental constraints which are
reemerging as the foreign exchange situation improves. These include:
shortages of qualified managerial and technical expertise, problems of
creditworthiness (resulting from ownership uncertainty, financial indisci-
pline and, more recently, the impact of devaluation on costs), and over-
expansion and political interference in the management of the parastatal
sector. The Government has now declared its intention to follow a "mixed
economy" strategy, with only essential public services reserved exclusively
for the public sector. In other areas, domestic and foreign private enter-
prise is to be encouraged, either wholly owned or in joint ventures with
the Government, The Government expects to close down or sell off a number
of the existing industrial enterprises, while the financial viability of
the remaining parastatals is to be restored through increased tariffs,
asset revaluation and injections of new capital. Actions initiated by the
Government in this area, including the Expropriated Properties Act and a
program of financial and accounting studies, were noted in paragraph 9.
However, the modalities for restructuring the parastatal sector are still
to be worked out fully.
13.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined ear-
lier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and in-
adequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977 had a
serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes. As a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania. This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while increasing their
cost. Transport was moreover the sector possibly most seriously affected
by the war and the widespread looting which followed. The vehicle fleet in
particular was decimated. Rehabilitation of the transport system and
sector institutions, thus becomes a key requirement for economic recovery.
14.       The World Bank recently completed an assessment of Uganda's
energy sector. Energy use is primarily based on electricity, petroleum and
woodfuels. At the present time, Uganda's electric generating capacity is
underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed as the
economy recovers and the opportunities are taken to substitute for more
expensive fuels (such as petroleum products) and to secure long-term export
agreements with neighboring countries. As a result, the Government has
initiated two studies on the power subsector, one on the rehabilitation of
the Owen Falls Station and the other to help prepare a least-cost power
development program. As regards petroleum, the Government has succeeded in
reducing the cost of imports over the past two years, through the impact of
higher retail prices on domestic consumption and smuggling as well as
improvements in supply arrangements. Preliminary work to ascertain the.
extent and economic viability of petroleum resources in the Lake Albert



- 8 -
area has also been started, although local oil production remains very much
a longer-term and uncertain prospect. Woodfuels are estimated to account
for 95% of total energy and 71% of commercial energy consumption in Uganda.
There is therefore mounting concern that uncontrolled cutting will even-
tually deplete the most accessible forest resources and lead to further
soil erosion problems.
Aid and Debt
15.       Under the base-case scenario presented in the recent Country
Economic Memorandum, Uganda's GDP is projected to grow by 4.7% per annum
through 1985 and 3.6% per annum over the subsequent five years. These
projections assume a steady improvement in the internal security situation
and continued progress on economic reforms. The viability of this scenario
is also critically dependent on the availability of foreign exchange to
finance recurrent imports and priority rehabilitation projects. The recent
recovery in export performance is expected to continue. However, an impor-
tant assumption in this assumption is that Uganda's coffee quota will be
increased from 2.3 million bags in 1983 and 1984 to 2.5 million bags in
1985. Although Uganda's case for a higher quota is strong, such an in-
crease is not assured and this represents a major uncertainty in the coun-
try's future. The current account deficit, in real terms, is projected to
rise in 1984 and then steadily decline over the remainder of the decade.
This has major implications for external financing requirements.
(a) Commitment levels are required to increase by 7% during 1984 to
US$430 million and then to continue rising by about 4% per annum
(below the projected rate of international inflation). As debt
relief and private loans are expected to fall, other forms of
external assistance will have to increase by as much as 47%
during 1984.
(b) The composition of commitments is as important as the levels
themselves. Under Ugandan conditions, balance of payments
support will continue to be essential for at least the next two
to three years. However, project aid will become increasingly
important during the second half of the decade and even has a
role to play in the short term, provided it is consistent with
the rehabilitation priorities in the Revised Recovery Program.
Technical assistance, while not as large in dollar terms, is
important for improving public administration and making other
forms of aid effective.
(c) The net benefit to Uganda of higher commitments could soon be
eroded if they are not provided on concessional terms. This does
not preclude the possibility of utilizing some commercial bank
loans or suppliers' credits in association with concessional
assistance, but only for selected projects which generate addi-
tional net foreign exchange earnings to cover fully the related
debt obligations. However, arrangements which involve prior
claims on foreign exchange, such as coffee barter deals, should
be avoided.



- 9 -
On the Ugandan side, every effort must be made to strengthen aid coordina-
tion and administration. To this end, the Government has now reaffirmed
that formal responsibility for aid management, including signing agreements
and approving disbursements, lies with the Ministry of Finance. To facili-
tate this function, an aid coordinator has been appointed at the Permanent
Secretary level and he is to be assisted by a staff of twelve. In addi-
tion, MPED has a vital role to play in assuring that aid mobilized is in
line with the priorities of the Revised Recovery Program and in monitoring
aid utilization and project implementation. Therefore, appropriate staff,
facilities and technical assistance should also be allocated to MPED so
that these functions can be performed effectively, and working level
contacts between MPED and the Ministry of Finance should be strengthened.
16.       Uganda's external debt outstanding and disbursed had reached an
estimated US$713 million by the end of 1982. Of this amount, 3.5% was due
to IBRD (for Uganda's notional share of EAC loans) and 13.5% to IDA. For-
tunately for Uganda, the terms of new aid commitments since 1979 have been
highly concessional, with about half being grants and the balance of loans
having a grant element of 60%. However, other debt obligations, such as
war-related assistance and IMF purchases, have helped to raise the overall
debt service ratio to around 50% during 1981-83. Under the base-case
scenario in the Country Economic Memorandum, the debt service ratio is
projected to fall back to 46% in 1984 and 31% by 1990. This, however, is
still cause for concern. Further, the down-side risks are very real:
Uganda's export structure is still heavily dependent on coffee, earnings
from which could be constrained by further quota restrictions and unfavor-
able price movements; the Government may find it difficult to reduce the
import requirements of security-related activities; and adequate amounts of
assistance, on concessional terms, may not be forthcoming to support the
recovery effort. This outlook reinforces the importance of external debt
management.  Progress has been made over the past year in improving debt
recording and an External Debt Management Office has been established. The
real priority now is to develop an appropriate borrowing program for Uganda
and ensure that it is adhered to by centralizing the authority to contract
debts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 2/
17.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which
were extended for the development of the common services and the East
African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda
2/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Second Technical Assistance
Project, Report No. P-3691-UG, dated December 5, 1983.



- 10 -
through their association in the former East African Community (EAC).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations. IFC's
first investment in Uganda, in a textile company, was sold to the
Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges in the national
parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC approved new
investments in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company and in the Lugazi Sugar
Factory in FY83.
18.       There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Program Credit of US$72.5 million
(including a participation of US$17.5 million by the Netherlands) and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Nos. 983/
983-1-UG and 54-UG). The Association also acted as Administrator of a
Can$3.0 million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0 million
program loan from the OPEC Fund. The Reconstruction Credit originally
experienced delays and disbursements were slow; it is now fully disbursed.
About 64% of the Second Reconstruction Credit of US$70.0 million equivalent
(No. 1252-UG), approved in May 1982 has been committed. In addition, the
Association has provided US$178.0 million through the First Technical
Assistance Credit (No. 1077-UG), a Water Supply Engineering Credit (No.
1110-UG), a Phosphate Engineering Credit (No. 1228-UG), an Industrial
Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1248-UG), an Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit
(No. 1328-UG), a Third Education Credit (No. 1329-UG) and a Posts and
Telecommunications Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1367-UG). A US$15 million
credit for a Second Technical Assistance Project was approved in December
1983 but has not yet been signed.
19.       A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that the disbursement rate in Uganda has been higher than the
average in the Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commitments
from 43% in FY80 to 30% in FY83 (compared with 19% and 26% in the same
years for the Region as a whole). Disbursements under the Water Supply
Engineering Credit are continuing and have started satisfactorily under the
Phosphate Engineering Credit. There are no disbursements yet from the
Industrial Rehabilitation Credit due to the time needed to appraise
sub-projects in detail. Progress under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project is good and disbursements are satisfactory. The two credits for
the Third Education, and the Posts and Telecommunications Projects have
been declared effective recently; disbursements are just beginning under
these credits.
20.       The Bank Group also administers an Agricultural Reconstruction
Program (No. 80-UG) of US$20.0 million equivalent financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development and a UNDP-financed
Planning Assistance Project. In the immediate future, Bank Group opera-
tions will remain focussed on rehabilitation projects. Besides a Third
Reconstruction Credit and the proposed project, rehabilitation projects are
under preparation for power and water supply. The emphasis will shift
gradually into traditional projects in the agriculture, industry, transport
and energy sectors.
22.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977



- 11 -
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the Mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals. Negotiations
which started in December 1981 and continued through 1982 and 1983 focussed
on details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it was gen-
erally accepted that both location of assets and the principle of equal
rights of all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the weight
to be attributed to these principles was a major issue. On November 15 and
16, 1983 the negotiations culminated in a meeting of the three Heads of
State in Arusha in which full agreement was reached on all outstanding
issues, including the prominent weighting question. The agreement follows
the recommendations of the Mediator and provides equity shares of 42% for
Kenya, 32% for Tanzania, and 26% for Uganda. As a result of this formula,
Kenya and Tanzania have excess assets over their equity shares, while
Uganda has a shortfall. The Presidents agreed therefore that Kenya and
Tanzania will pay compensation to Uganda. The method of payment of thls
compensation is to be worked out at the ministerial level by March 31,
1984.
PART III - THE SECTOR
22.       Uganda's transport infrastructure comprises about 27,500 km of
roads (of which about 2,000 km are paved), a railway system totaling 1,350
km, a port on Lake Victoria providing a rail-ferry link to Tanzania, an
international airport at Entebbe, and eleven dometic airfields. The den-
sity of the transport system is adequate. However, due to severe neglect
over the past 10 years, the infrastructure has deteriorated and requires
rehabilitation and maintenance.
Organization
23.       The road subsector is described in detail in paragraphs 33 to
46 below. The railway system is administered by the Uganda Railway
Corporation (URC), a parastatal under the Ministry of Transport. It oper-
ates a 1,350 km meter-gauge network of two main lines branching off at
Tororo on the eastern border with Kenya. Much of the railway's infrastruc-
ture and rolling stock has deteriorated due to lack of adequate maintenance
and capital replacement. Rehabilitation and efficient utilization of rail-
way infrastructure would be a prerequisite for URC to resume its proper
role in the country's transport sector.
24.       URC was created in 1977 following the break up of the East
African Community (EAC). Since then URC's efficiency has been constrained
by lack of adequate operating relations with neighboring countries, partic-
ularly Kenya, through which the bulk of Uganda's external trade transits.



- 12 -
Since Uganda remains virtually dependent on Kenya for its import/export
traffic, cooperation with Kenya is a key element in Uganda's overall trans-
port strategy, and it is imperative that Uganda extend and strengthen
cooperative railway operations, including the rationalization of inter-
change of rolling stock and revenue agreements between the two countries.
At present, informal arrangements between the railway administrations of
Kenya and Uganda govern the interchange of rolling stock between the two
countries. The Government of Uganda will take all measures necessary on
its part by September 1, 1984 to formalize appropriate arrangements with
Kenya concerning the interchange of rolling stock (Section 4.07 of the
Development Credit Agreement). A similar agreement will be reached with
the Government of Kenya under the proposed Second Highway Sector Loan. URC
also needs a major staff training effort, a complete review of personnel
policies and technical assistance to help in management and operational
tasks. The Government is currently discussing with UNDP possible assist-
ance in reviewing its management and operations and providing limited
management support to URC. The Association would act as executing agency.
A more detailed scrutiny of URC would be undertaken and appropriate reme-
dies for its shortcomings would be agreed upon under a planned Railway
Rehabilitation Project for which the Government has requested Bank Group
assistance.
25.       While in the past, as part of the East African Railway system, a
rail-car ferry operated on Lake Victoria, linking Jinja in Uganda, Kisumu
in Kenya, and Mwanza in Tanzania, there is now virtually no water transport
in Uganda. However, to reduce its dependence on the Kenya route for inter-
national trade, in 1978 Uganda ordered three rail-car ferries, which would
operate on Lake Victoria between Uganda and Tanzania and line up with road
and railway to the port of Dar-es-Salaam. The ships are being assembled at
Port Bell near Kampala. The first ferry is in operation with the two
others to follow later in 1984 and 1985. This route will always remain
economically inferior to the Kenyan route for many commodities, especially
now that proper interchange agreements between the Ugandan and Kenyan
railways are imminent. Nevertheless, it does give a supplementary trade
link, which under certain conditions can be useful.
26.       The air transport infrastructure consists of an international
airport at Entebbe, capable of handling long-range jet aircraft, and 11
domestic airfields. Operations are limited, and flights are often can-
celed because of lack of equipment and navigational aids. Uganda Airlines,
a wholly Government-owned parastatal, was formed in 1976 and became the
sole national carrier following the collapse of East African Airlines in
1977/78. During the liberation war, many of its aircraft and much of its
equipment were destroyed or damaged. Since the war, the airline has
replaced aircraft and resumed international service to points in Europe,
the Gulf (Dubai) and regional centers in East Africa. The Government has
begun to look at Ugandan Airlines more critically and to identify possible
means to improve efficiency and reduce costs.
27.       Management of the transport sector is mainly in the hands of the
Ministries of Transport and of Works, which share the main responsibili-
ties. Other Ministries involved in the sector include those of Commerce
(transit traffic), of Co-operatives and Marketing (control of the Uganda



- 13 -
Transport Cooperative Union), of Planning and Economic Development (for
overall investment planning), and of Finance (for project financing and
external aid). MOT has a policy role in matters relating to road, rail.,
air and water transport and is responsible for transport regulation,
coordinatVon, control and tariffs and for road transport safety. It also
oversees the operations of Uganda Railways, Uganda Airlines and of Uganda's
two road passenger transport parastatals. Although the Ministry's organi-
zational structure is adequate, it seriously lacks qualified staff to
perform its functions and badly needs technical assistance in the short
term and recruitment and training in the long term. The Ministry of Works
is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining highways and for
airport operations. It is described in more detail in paragraphs 40 to 45
below.
28.       Transport planning and coordination are carried out by MOT, in
cooperation with the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED),
which is theoretically responsible for overall investment planning. The
lack of clearly defined objectives and manpower shortages have in fact
enabled the various transport agencies and parastatals, by default, to take
on considerable autonomy in planning without much regard to economic or
intermodal considerations. In order to adequately perform its role in
transport sector planning, MOT must strengthen its staffing and systemize
and intensify its sector knowledge through better data collection and
analysis. Longer term responsibilities for MOT should include an assess-
ment of Uganda's medium and long-term transport needs, the preparation of a
comprehensive transport investment program, and the development of a trans-
port strategy and policy framework. An ongoing technical assistance
project financed by the International Labor Organization and the United
Nations Development Program has been designed to help meet these objec-
tives. In addition, the proposed IDA project includes two transport
planners/statisticians who would assist MOT in establishing the required
data base to carry out its functions. Training of local staff is being
considered under a possible transport sector training project envisaged for
financing under the recently approved Second Technical Assistance Project
(US$15.0 million equivalent credit; not yet signed). To assist MPED in its
role as overall investment coordinator, a UNDP-financed project (with the
Association as executing agency) is providing a transport specialist to
advise the Government on transport matters, particularly with respect to
the rehabilitation of the sector.
Transport Sector Investment
29.       In the 1960s and early 1970s, Uganda had one of the best trans-
port systems in Sub-Saharan Africa. However, a decade of neglect and
the effects of the liberation war of 1979 left the transport system in
shambles. The new Government reacted to the need to increase transport
capacity by buying trucks, ferries, airplanes, locomotives and rolling
stock. Since this initial rush to buy equipment, the Government has
adopted a mDre rational approach to sector investments as part of its
Revised Recovery Program, which concentrates on the rehabilitation of the
entire economy and identifies priorities for each sector. In transport,
the two highest priority areas are the rehabilitation of the railways and



- 14 -
the maintenance of the road network. The overall cost of the Revised
Recovery Program for the three years 1982/83 to 1984/85 is about US$800
million, of which transport's share is US$79 million (10 percent). The
initial eighteen-month period of the proposed project through June 1985,
with estimated expenditures of about US$15 million equivalent, would fall
within the framework of the Revised Recovery Program. Given the condition
of the sector and its short-term needs, thisshare is reasonable.
30.       The road transport program within the Revised Recovery Program
includes several sub-programs, seven of which need external financing.
About 70% of the road program comprises rehabilitation. The railway
recovery program includes the renewal and improvement of permanent way,
procurement of rolling stock, signaling and telecommunications, a workshop
for carriage and wagon repairs, and procurement of handling equipment
financed by bilateral assistance. The program for air transport involves
the repair of essential navigational and communications equipment primarily
at Entebbe airport which was damaged during the liberation war.
Transport Policy and Issues
31.       Although no clear transport policy has been pronounced, a set of
objectives can be derived from Government actions and statements regarding
the sector. Thus for international transport, the Government sees rail as
the principal mode for long-distance freight. Moreover, given the occa-
sional difficulties experienced with Kenya in operating the corridor to
Mombasa, it is seeking to strengthen an existing alternative route, namely
the Lake Victoria-Tanzania rail corridor to Dar-es-Salaam. It has also
assigned an active role to Uganda Airlines in international transport.
Domestic transport policy objectives are less clear. For example, the role
of the parastatals vis-a-vis the private sector is not clearly defined.
Also, although the Government's general strategy is to bring the transport
system up to its previous level, official policies allocating priorities
between road and rail services have yet to emerge.
32.       In 1982-83 the Association carried out a transport sector review.
Thereafter a Transport Sector Memorandum was prepared which identified the
following major shortcomings and problems: (a) the need for extensive
transport sector manpower development; (b) the need to improve MOT's sec-
toral data base to permit policy formulation and decision making; (c) the
need to improve transport administration and policy making including defi-
nition of clearer relationships between MPED, MOW and MOT; and (d) the need
to improve transport sector cooperation between Uganda and Kenya, partic-
ularly as it applies to rail movements. Possible remedies and solutions to
these issues are currently under discussion with the Government and those
that are urgent, are being dealt with in the framework of the proposed
project. In addition, the International Labor Organization is reviewing
the current situation and preparing a feasibility report on needed surface
transport investments. Following the recent agreement apportioning the
assets and liabilities of the former East African Community, further action
to improve regional cooperation in transport is expected.



- 15 -
The Road Subsector
33.       The road network of Uganda totals 27,540 km of roads.  Of these,
7,540 km comprise the classified road network, which is divided into three
categories: primary (3,850 km), secondary (1,835 km) and tertiary (1,855
km). Primary roads are major national and international roads which
connect administrative centers and lead to neighboring countries. Second-
ary roads are inter-district roads or link the primary roads network with
centers of economic activity. Tertiary roads serve local population
centers and agricultural areas. Administration of the classified network,
of which 1,940 km are paved and 5,600 km gravel surfaced, is the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Works. The remaining 20,000 km of roads, mostly
unengineered gravel and earth feeder roads, are the responsibility of local
governments. The overall road network is adequate in extent, but its con-
dition has deteriorated badly for want of maintenance over the past decade.
34.       The country's vehicle fleet includes about 20,000 four-wheel
vehicles, of which about 12,500 are light and 7,500 commercial vehicles.
The heavy trucks (about 3,500) are the most important as they carry about
75% of the freight traffic. The vehicle fleet has been severely depleted
due to lack of maintenance and to destruction and damage during the liber-
ation war. Foreign exchange shortages have exacerbated the problem by
severely restricting the supply of spare parts.
35.       Until 1972 MOW maintained reliable traffic counts for all
sections of the classified road network. In 1982 MOW undertook a traffic-
counting program. Results showed that average daily recorded traffic
ranges from about 2,000 vehicles on the paved roads leading to Kampala to
about 30 vehicles on tertiary roads. Annual traffic counts will be resumed
starting not later than January 1, 1985 (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
36.       Retail prices for motor fuels are set by the Government and are
adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the border prices of the
various products. The latest adjustment was in late November 1983. The
pump price of the products more than covers their international price,
i.e. the relevant opportunity cost. However, there is still some price
differential between diesel fuel and gasoline, reflecting the Government's
desire to use gasoline taxation as a source of general government revenue.
This is acceptable.
37.       The freight transport industry is dominated by small owner/
operators with fewer than three trucks each. They supply the bulk of
freight transport capacity. The main freight transporter in the country
is the Uganda Transport Cooperative Union (UTCU), which is owned by 30
regional cooperatives. Various marketing boards, including the Coffee
Marketing Board, the Cotton Marketing Board and the Produce Marketing
Board, also operate fleets of trucks.
38.       Public road passenger service is being provided by two para-
statals (Uganda Transport Company, UTC, and People's Transport Company,
PTC) and a number of private bus companies. Despite these companies, there
is a severe shortage of public passenger transport in the country, as



- 16 -
shortages of spare parts and high operating costs are driving many of the
private operators out of business. Regulated rates charged by UTC and PTC
are non-remunerative. As a result, service levels have deteriorated
substantially and the public suffers from reduced transport availability.
The proper remedy would be to restructure the parastatal companies on a
commercial basis. For this purpose, the Government would start an account-
ing study for parastatal organizations in the transport sector by December
31, 1984 (Section 4.03 of the Development Credit Agreement). By June 30,
1985, the Government would submit to the Association proposals for passen-
ger transport tariff levels derived from the recommendations of this study.
The Association would review these proposals, and forward its comments to
the Government. Based on these, the Government would establish proper
tariff levels for passenger transport (Section 4.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Traffic Regulations and Safety
39.       Until the break up of the EAC, the control of road vehicles was
not a problem since most heavy traffic moved by rail. However, with the
inefficiency of the railway and the diversion of traffic to the roads, the
situation has changed drastically. The size and axle loadings of heavy
vehicles are having a detrimental effect on the roads. The Government is
drafting new traffic and safety legislation which would, among other
things, set rules governing vehicle size, weight and dimensions and road
safety. The Government will take all measures necessary to ensure that
such regulations will be in effect not later than December 31, 1984
(Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Highway Administration - Ministry of Works (MOW)
40.       MOW is responsible for planning, building and maintaining the
classified road network. It is divided into four divisions: technical,
finance and administration, highway, and stores. The technical division
is composed of four sections: road maintenance, training, materials
laboratory, and mechanical; the highway division is composed of three
sections: planning, design, and construction. MOW's organization, though
understaffed, is structurally sound. MOW's vacancy rate for civil servants
is about 50 percent. The rate is highest for the upper mid-range positions
where core experience is crucial; of 226 such positions, about 145 (64
percent) are vacant. In addition to the exodus of trained personnel from
the country, the low salary levels makes recruitment difficult. The issue
of low salaries can only be addressed over the medium term within the
overall government administrative policy. In the meantime, the impact of
the staffing problem in road maintenance will be alleviated by carrying out
all periodic maintenance included in the proposed project by contract and
by providing technical assistance for road maintenance planning and opera-
tions. At present, the position of Deputy Engineer-in-Chief is vacant. By
December 31, 1984, that is when physical implementation of the main project
components is scheduled to start, the Government would fill this position
and keep it, as well as the position of Chief Training Engineer, filled at
all times with qualified staff (Section 3.01 (c) of the Development Credit
Agreement).



- 17 -
41.       In the past, training for road maintenance personnel was provided
at MOW's Road Maintenance Training Center (RMTC) and at separate facilities
within MOW's central workshop. However, training facilities and training
aids at both RMTC and the central workshop were either damaged or looted
during th. war and have not been restored. The proposed project would help
re-establish the training facilities at RMTC and at the central workshop
and would provide technical assistance to help review staff inventories,
assess manpower requirements and training needs, and organize and carry out
a comprehensive training program for staff. For this purpose, the
Government will submit to the Association, by March 31, 1985, a suitable
training program for MOW's staff and implement it after its approval by the
Association (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
42.       MOW's design section carries out minor road and bridge design
including field investigations, while all economic feasibility and detailed
engineering studies for major projects are done by foreign consultants.
There are some local, private consultants in the country, but they are
generally involved with structural design. The established general stand-
ards and specifications for roads are acceptable.
43.       Major construction works financed by outside agencies are awarded
following prequalification and international competitive bidding and are
supervised by foreign econsultants. In the past there were local firms
which had the capacity to execute road works, but they, too, have suffered
the consequences of a decade of disruptions in economic activity. There
are 10 medium-sized contractors for minor road upgrading and periodic
maintenance works, but they lack proper equipment, management expertise and
trained manpower to perform effectively and profitably. The proposed
project, therefore, would include a pilot program for the development of
the local construction industry.
Road Maintenance
44.       MOW's road maintenance organization is basically sound, but due
to severe staff shortages, lack of adequate equipment, shortages of funds
and inadequate planning and coordination, the quantity and quality of road
maintenance is far from satisfactory. Routine maintenance is carried out
irregularly. Because of low salaries, road gangs put in only two or three
hours of work a day and then engage in other activities to supplement their
income. Maintenance has not been undertaken on a regular and meaningful
basis since 1973. Varying degrees of deterioration of riding surfaces,
shoulders and roadside drainage are now evident throughout the road net-
work. The more heavily used roads show pronounced deterioration. Paved
roads have developed potholes and surface cracks with extensive edge ravel-
ing and skin failures. Most gravel roads have lost their gravel completely
and have reverted to earth roads.
45.       The road maintenance section of MOW's Technical Division is
responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of roads. The mechanical
section is responsible for the repair and maintenance of vehicles and
equipment for all government departments. Under the central workshop in
Kampala there are four area workshops and twelve district workshops. How-
ever, as a result of damage and looting, the workshops are unable to carry



- 18 -
out their task. The proposed project would help replace the damaged or
looted equipment and tools and provide additional items to upgrade the
maintenance and repair capability of MOW workshops. It would also assist
in rebuilding and repairing workshop structures.
46.       Road maintenance is financed from the recurrent budget.  The
amount spent on road maintenance as a whole in 1983 was USh 455 million
and the amount allocated for 1984 is USh 1,356 million. Within the overall
road maintenance program through 1987, routine maintenance (to be covered
by the project) would involve recurrent expenditures totaling about USh
1,500 million. For the future, the Government will provide such funds for
each of the FYs 1985-87, and not later than four months before the begin-
ning of each fiscal year the Government will review with the Association
the budgetary requirements and the proposed budgetary allocation for road
maintenance (Section 3.01 (b)(i) and (ii) of the Development Credit
Agreement). Further, to ensure adequate provisions for financing road
maintenance after project implementation, the Government and the
Association will, by June 30, 1987, review the estimated funds required for
the following three years, and the Government will take all measures neces-
sary to ensure that such funds will be available to MOW as and when needed
(Section 3.01 (b)(iii) of the Development Credit Agreement). Revenues from
road user charges are estimated to have been USh 7.65 billion in 1981.
This far exceeds expenditures on both construction and maintenance of roads
and is substantially more than would be required to properly maintain the
road network.
Previous Bank Group Operations in the Highway Subsector
47.       The Bank Group has helped finance two previous highway projects
in Uganda. The first of these (US$5 million dated July 28, 1967; Credit
No. 108-UG) included construction, to paved standards, of the Mbarara-
Katunguru road, construction of several small agricultural and feeder
roads, and detailed engineering of 740 km of main and feeder roads. A Bank
audit of this project found that as a result of the contractor's ineffi-
cient organization and poor workmanship, construction of the main road was
of poor quality. The project's actual rate of return was estimated between
8 and 11% and, because of the lack of adequate maintenance, may be even
lower. The second project (US$11.6 million of September 29, 1969; Credit
No. 164-UG) consisted of the construction or reconstruction of 665 km of
primary, secondary, and feeder roads engineered under the first project, a
highway investment, maintenance and organization study, feasibility studies
and detailed engineering of about 400 km of roads, and technical assist-
ance. Project implementation was hampered, especially after about 1975, by
a lack of qualified staff and high prices for all purchased goods due to
shortages and parallel market operations. The project was completed in
1980. Due to the limited availability of data in the country, a full
project completion report and audit has not been carried out;  instead, a
limited completion note has been prepared which identified the above
results. In addition to the two previous highway projects, Uganda's high-
way subsector has received Bank Group financing through the First Technical
Assistance Project (US$8 million of January 21, 1981; Credit No. 1077-UG)
and the Second Reconstruction Credit (US$70 million of June 14, 1982;
Credit No. 1252-UG).



- 19 -
IV. THE PROJECT
48.       The project was appraised in May 1983.  A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Uganda - Third Hig4way Project," Report No. 4722-UG, dated
February 14, 1984, has been distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately. Negotiations were held in Washington in January 1984. The Ugandan
delegation was headed by the Hon. A. W. Nan'gwale, Minister of Works, and
included representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Justice. A
Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this report. Supplemental
project data are in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The objectives of the proposed project are to improve maintenance
of the country's rapidly deteriorating classified road network, re-
establish MOW's capability to perform maintenance operations, help develop
the local construction industry, improve the management of the transport
sector, and help enforce vehicle weight and traffic safety regulations.
50.       The main component of the proposed project is a four-year
(1984-87) program to improve the maintenance of the classified road net-
work. This program includes the improvement of routine maintenance of the
7,540-km classified road network and periodic resealing of about 600 km of
bitumen roads and regraveling of about 1,000 km of gravel roads. The roads
to be resealed and regraveled were identified by consultants and MOW staff,
with assistance from the Association, on the basis of a Highway Maintenance
and Organization Study carried out under the first Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 1077-UG). Resealing and regraveling operations will be
performed by contractors. This will leave MOW free to develop greater
efficiency in its ability to perform routine maintenance operations.
51.       The project would provide for the procurement of new road mnin-
tenance equipment and an initial stock of spare parts. It would also
include spare parts for the rehabilitation of existing equipment. In order
to upgrade the maintenance and repair capability of MOW's workshops, the
proposed project also provides for the procurement of supplementary work-
shop equipment and tools and for the needed repair or reconstruction of the
central workshop and of area and district workshops, as well as improve-
ments of the Government's Road Maintenance Training Center (RMTC), includ-
ing training equipment. By August 31, 1984, the Government will submit to
the Association for its review plans and construction details for the
additional facilities at RMTC and MOW workshops (Section 3.04 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). Because of the severe shortage of foreign
exchange in the country, the fuel and bitumen required for routine road
maintenance operations are not easily obtainable. The project, thereEore,
provides for the supply of diesel fuel, gasoline and bitumen for the
routine road maintenance program included in the project.
52.       The project would provide technical assistance to the Ministries
of Works and Transport, including consulting services for the preparation
of bidding documents and the supervision of resealing and regraveling



- 20 -
operations. Also, since the proposed project would cover only the first
four years of a seven-year comprehensive road maintenance program, funds
would be provided for a study to prepare a maintenance program for the
remaining three years.
53.       The local road construction industry in Uganda lacks the re-
sources to compete profitably after a decade of economic disruption. Since
the Government, with the Association's support, is anxious to strengthen
the local construction industry in order to reduce reliance on foreign
contractors and save scarce foreign exchange, the proposed project includes
a pilot program for this purpose in the form of technical assistance and
equipment for on-the-job training for local firms. The pilot program would
include assistance in different phases of construction (tender preparation,
site organization and management, personnel management, cost control, etc.)
and would use roads selected for resealing and regraveling as training
media. Details of the program would be prepared by the Government, and the
Government would submit to the Association, for approval prior to its
implementation, the entire pilot program for the development of the local
construction industry (Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
54.       Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies as
well as US$7.0 million equivalent of taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$81 million, of which US$58 million or 72% is in foreign exchange. Major
cost components are: resealing and regraveling of roads (US$30.9 million),
equipment, spare parts and tools (US$12.3 million) and fuel and bitumen for
routine road maintenance (US$12.0 million). Consultant services account
for US$3.7 million. Repairs and improvements to the Road Maintenance
Training Center and Workshops are estimated to cost US$1.5 million, and the
pilot program for the development of local construction industry would cost
US$2.0 million. Physical and price contingencies account for US$6.0
million and US$12.6 million, respectively, of project costs. The proposed
credit of US$58 million would finance all foreign costs. The Government
would contribute the remaining US$23 million of local costs.
55.       Of the proposed credit, US$20.7 million would be allocated for
resealing and regraveling of roads, US$12.2 million for road maintenance
and workshop equipment, spare parts and tools, and US$9.0 million for fuel
and bitumen. The credit would also be used for consultant services (US$2.9
million), a pilot program for strengthening local construction industry
(US$1.6 million), and repairs and improvements of workshops and of the Road
Maintenance Training Center (US$0.4 million).  The equivalent of US$2.6
million would be used to establish a Revolving Fund (paragraph 59 below),
and the balance of US$8.6 million would remain unallocated.
Project Implementation and Procurement
56.       MOW and MOT would be responsible for implementing the proposed
project. Consultants would prepare bidding documents and supervise road
resealing and regraveling, prepare bidding documents for road maintenance
equipment and for workshop equipment, spare parts and tools, provide tech-
nical assistance, and prepare a future road maintenance program.



- 21 -
57.       All procurement would be consistent with the Bank Group's
Procurement Guidelines. Contracts for resealing and regraveling services
(totaling US$30.9 million)3/ would be procured on the basis of unit price
quotations after international competitive bidding (ICB). New road main-
tenance Pluipment, including the necessary supply of spare parts, and work-
shop equipment and tools, estimated to cost US$11.5 million, would also be
procured through ICB, with separate contracts for each type or group of
similar types of equipment. Suppliers of equipment would be required to
provide an adequate servicing organization and maintain a reasonable inven-
tory of spare parts in Uganda. They would also have to provide training of
mechanics and plant operators. Fuel and bitumen for routine road mainte-
nance (US$12 million) and equipment for the local construction industry
pilot program would also be procured on the basis of ICB. Spare parts for
existing equipment, and training equipment, estimated to cost about US$0.9
million, would involve a wide range of items of various makes and would be
unlikely to attract ICB. They would therefore be procured on the basis of
international shopping, requiring price quotations from at least three
suppliers from at least two countries, except for proprietary items, which
would be purchased directly. Since repairs and improvements of RMTC and
MOW workshops (US$1.5 million) are also inlikely to attract ICB, the works
will be carried out by local contractors after competitive bidding in
accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the Association and
under supervision by MOW staff. Consultants would also be selected and
employed in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
58.       The preparation of tender documents, and the evaluation of
contract bids, for the first resealing and regraveling contracts would be
completed by the end of 1984. Actual resealing and regraveling works under
the project would take 36 months, beginning in January 1985, with an
estimated 25 percent of the works to be carried out in 1985, 45 percent in
1986 and the remaining 30 percent in 1987. Procurement of road maintenance
and workshop equipment tools and training equipment would be completed by
the end of 1985. Repairs and improvement of RMTC and MOW workshops would
take 12 months and would be carried out in 1985. The preparation of a
future road maintenance program would take about four months and would be
completed by the end of 1986. The proposed project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1987.
Disbursements
59.       Credit funds would be disbursed for resealing and regraveling
contracts on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 70 percent
of local expenditures. All foreign expenditures for road maintenance and
workshop equipment, spare parts, tools and training aids, or 80 percent of
local expenditures, would also be reimbursable from the credit. For the
remaining items, disbursements would be on the basis of 25 percent of
expenditures for repairs and improvements of RMTC and MOW workshops, 100
percent of foreign expenditures for fuel and bitumen, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 70 percent of local expenditures for consultant
3/ All estimates in this paragraph are net of contingencies.



- 22 -
services, and 80 percent of expenditures for the local construction indus-
try pilot program. Disbursements would be made against the normally re-
quired full documentation. A US$2.6 million equivalent Revolving Fund
would be established in the Bank of Uganda for expenditures on civil works,
on equipment, spare parts and tools, and on consultant services. This fund
would be replenished periodically against submission of appropriate docu-
mentation. Disbursements should be completed by June 30, 1988, six months
after project completion.
Benefits and Justification
60.       The proposed project is designed to maintain and rehabilitate
roads that link centers of economic activity to each other and to their
agricultural hinterlands. Their improvement would allow better, cheaper
and more reliable access to and from the districts for movement of produc-
tion inputs and the evacuation of food and crops to consumers and to pro-
cessing and export facilities. The project also aims at re-establishing
MOW's capability to carry out routine maintenance over the entire classi-
fied network by providing equipment, supplies, materials, technical assist-
ance and training. Important indirect benefits, difficult to quantify, are
reductions in freight damage, accidents and travel time and better access
to social and medical facilities. Reduced fuel consumption should also
result in savings, mostly of foreign exchange.
61.       The economic analysis is based on an assessment of costs and
expected benefits "with" and "without" the proposed works. Only savings
in vehicle operating costs are quantified for most of the analysis. The
economic analysis of the resealing and regraveling component, which
accounts for 50% of all project base cost, assumes an economic life of five
years for resealing and of six years for regraveling.  It further assumes
an annual traffic growth rate of 6 percent throughout the period. Based on
these assumptions, the regraveling program has an economic rate of return
of 59 percent, with individual sections ranging from 21 percent to well
over 350 percent. The economic rate of return for the resealing program is
45 percent with variations between 15 and over 150 percent.
62.       The overall economic rate of return for the project is 54 percent
for the quantitatively analyzed components, representing 90 percent of
total project cost. Sensitivity analyses were carried out for the main
project components based on possible changes in variables used in deter-
mining the estimated rates of return. Cost increases of 10 percent, a 10
percent reduction in vehicle operating cost savings, a reduction of the
assumed traffic growth rate by 50 percent to 3 percent per year, each would
still yield returns ranging from 10 percent to well over 300 percent. The
low return of 10 percent under the most pessimistic assumptions applies to
only one out of the road links to be covered by the project.
Risks
63.       The project has been designed so as to reduce implementation
risks as much as possible. The remaining main risk is the still unsettled



- 23 -
political and security situation in the country. Under prevailing condi-
tions, the project as designed is feasible. A deterioration, however,
could have adverse effects on project implementation, both in terms of cost
and completion, and in a severe case may even require some revision of the
project scope.  Other risks, such as MOW's lack of familia-ity with Bank
Group procurement procedures, lack of staff morale in MOW due to low
salaries, and possible shortages of local funds to carry out the project,
are being minimized as far as possible by using contractors for all reseal-
ing and regraveling work, and by intensive implementation supervision
particularly during the first years of project execution, including contin-
uous checks on budget allocations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Uganda
and the Association and the Recommndation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       The appointment of suitably qualified consultants for preparing
bidding documents for road resealing and regraveling and for road
maintenance, workshop equipment and tools, and the establishment of a
Special Account in the Bank of Uganda for the Revolving Fund would be
special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed credit (Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement). Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with tie
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By M. A. Qureshi
Washington, D. C.
February 22, 1984



- 24 -
ANNE I
Page 1 of 2
EOtMIC IEVELE'UT DATA - UGANDA
GP PTER CAPrlA IN 1982 a/ - US$240
GROSS NAlINAL PM)WCr IN 1982 b/                          ARNIAL RAME OF GRWM (%, CGantant Prices)
US$ MUllion     Z               1970-75    1975-81    1982
GM  at mrket Prices            7,336     100.0                -         -3.2       7.8
Gross Toestic Investment         609       8.3              -11.9       -4.7      27.1
Gross National Savings           353       4.8              -16.9      -10.4      44.7
Current Account Balance        -256       -3.5
acport of Goods, NTS             339       4.6              -11.3       -7.3      36.1
Tnport of Goods, NFS            558        7.6              -9.2        -5.9      19.0
VALUE ADDED IN 1982 (At 1966 Prices) c/                    GJVm El FINZ
Cantral Gbvernment
US$ Million     %                                              (USh Million)     (% of GDP)
1981/82    1981/82    1971/72
Agriculture                      536      56.8             Current Receipts                    27,878       4.9       13.5
Industry                          44       4.6             Onrrent Expenditure                 30,071       5.3       13.5
Services                        363       38.6             Current Surplus                     -2,193      -0.4        -
Total                          943      100.0            Capital Exrenditure                 13,225        2.3       8.6
HANEY, CREIT AN PRICES                    1977    1978       1979      1980       1981      1982 d/
(USh F1llion Outstanrirg End Period)
Mon'ey Supply                            7,400   9,585    13,166       17,435    30,849     38,512
Bank Credit to Goverrment                5,522    7,288     9,485     14,848     29,332    34,111
Bank Credit to Other Sectors             2,885    3,221     3,371      5,951     11,459     21,371
1977    1978      1979        1980      1981    1982 d/
(Percentage or IndexNumhers)
Money as % of GDP                          13.9    13.7      11.9        8.0        6.9        5.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100) e/        706      917     1,702      3,527      6,800      9,851
Anrial percentage charges in:
General Price Index                      117.9    29.9       85.6       107.2      92.8       44.9
3ank Credit to Public Sector              15.3    32.0       30.1       56.5       97.5       16.3
33ank Credit to Private Sector            48.9    11.6        4.7       76.5       92.6       86.5
a/ Calculated by the same conversion technique as the World Bank Atlas (adjustirg for the overvalued exdcange rate but not for
any uderrecordirg of "nmgendo" transactions).
b/ Calculated at the official window-am  exchange rate. The estimates of GNP at market prices are therefore higher than the per
capita GNP estimate (which is adjusted for the overvalued excharge rate) times population.
c/ Up-to-date figures on employment and productivity are unavailable.
d/ Estimates.
e/ GDP deflator.
Not applicable.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
EFDMIC DE1ELOT2] DATA - UGAN1A
BALAM   OF PA)MENTS                                                                  MERQANDISE EXERS (Average 1979-82)
US$ Milion Z d/
1979      1980      1981      1982a/
(US$ Million)                  Coffee                           337       97.3
Cutton                             4        1.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                      412       332       250       339         Tea                                1        0.2
Lnports of Goods, NFS                     -391     -572      -508      -558          Other EKports                      4        1.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)                  21     -240      -258      -219           Sub-Total                       346      100.0
Factor Services and Transfers (net) b/    -28         -8         4       -37         Adjustments e/                   -22       -6.3
Balance on Current Account                  -7     -248      -254      -256            Total                          324       93.7
Official Grants                             32        93       103        88
Public M&LT Ilars (net)                    109        82         1       151         X1A LEEK, DECD1          31, 1981
Disbursements                           (150)    (134)       (93)    (257)                                             US$ MiLUion
Amlrtization                            (-41)     (-52)     (-92)    (-106)
Use of Fund Credit                         -4         27       125        82         Public Debt, incl. Gunrantesd             584 f/
Other Itemr n.e.i. (net)                 -195      -108         75        79        1bn4-QaranteaI Private Debt
Overall Balance of Payments               -65       -154        50       144         Total OutstandLrg and Disbursed           584
Reserves (end year)                         17         4        15        73         NET  MBT SEIhICE RATIO FOR 1982 g/
Payment Arrears (end year)                 116       257       217       131                                                     %
Petroleum Imports                           63       124       116       101         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed              46.8
Petroleum Exports                            -         -         -         -         Nn-Guaraiteed Private Debt
Total Outstandirg and Dishrsed             46.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE c/                                                                 IBRD/IDA 1ZDI1I (June 30, 1983) (US$ Million)
IBED f/  IDA
Annual Averages       End Period
1980     1981       1982   Apr.1983       Outstanding and Disbursed            16     113
US$1.00 = U.Sh.                           17.4      50.2      94.5    124.5          Undisbursed                          -      238
USh 1.0O = US cents                       13.5       2.0       1.1       0.8         Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed      16      351
a/ Estimates.
b/ Excludes official grants.
c/ At window one. The window-two exdcange rate vas USh 270 = US$1 at the end of April 1983.
d/ Z of unadjusted merchaindise exports.
e/  Includes errors and omissions, and adjustments for valuation, coverage and timing.
f/ Includes Uganda's notional share (15%) of EAC loans.
g/ Debt service payments (including IHF obligations) as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
.Nt available.
December 9, 1983



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year   Borrower       Purpose                       Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                    8.40   120.531/
1077-UG   1981      Uganda      Technical Assistance                    8.00      6.80
1L10-UG   1981      Uganda      Water Supply Engineering                9.00       5.88
1228-UG   1982      Uganda      Phosphate Engineering                   4.00      2.31
1248-UG   1982      Uganda      Industrial Rehabilitation              35.00     35.00
1252-UG   1982      Uganda      Second Reconstruction                  70.00     58.14
Program
1328-UG   1983      Uganda      Agricultural Rehabilitation            70.00     68.33
1329-UG   1983      Uganda      Third Education                        32.00     31.85
1367-UG   1983      Uganda      Posts and Telecommunications           22.00     22.00
Rehabilitation
Total                                              8.40   370.53    230.31
of which has been repaid                         8.40    19.69
Total now outstanding                              0.00   350.84
Amount sold:                         8.32
of which has been repaid           8.32
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     0.00   350.84
Total undisbursed                                  0.00   230.31    230.31
1/1 Includes exchange adjustment.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to the Association
and date of first Association mission              March/May 1982
(c)  Date of appraisal mission                                  May 1983
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations                    February 1984
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                      July/August 1984
II. Special Implementation Action by the Association
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Formalization of appropriate transport interchange arrangements
with Kenya by September 1, 1984 (paragraph 24);
(b) Resumption of annual traffic counts by January 1, 1985
(paragraph 35);
(c) Beginning of the accounting study for transport parastatals by
December 31, 1984. By June 30, 1985, submission of proposals
for passenger transport tariff levels derived from the recom-
mendations of the study, to the Association. Establishment of
tariffs for passenger transport after comments by the
Association (paragraph 38);
(d) Effectiveness of regulations governing vehicle size, weight and
dimensions, and road safety by December 31, 1984, (paragraph
39);
(e) Filling, by December 31, 1984, of the position of Deputy
Engineer-in-Chief in MOW and keeping this position and that of
Chief Training Engineer filled at all times (paragraph 40);
(f) Submission of a suitable training program for MOW's staff and
subsequent implementation (paragraph 41);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) Review, with the Association, of budgetary requirements and
proposed allocations for road maintenance, not later than four
months before the beginning of each fiscal year (paragraph 46);
(h) Review, with the Association by June 30, 1987, of funding
requirements for road maintenance during the three-year period
following completion of the project, and availability of
required funds (paragraph 46);
(i) Submission of plans and construction details for RMTC and MOW
workshop facilities (paragraph 51);
(j)  Submission of a pilot program for the development of the local
construction industry (paragraph 53).



