CIRCULATING COPY
Jgm  L  E  3 P .Y           TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1353a-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
IMPORTS PROGRAM
January 15, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
kas at December 28, 19i3)
Currency Unit: Taka (Tk)
US$               =  Tks. 8.2 /a
Tk 1              =  US$0.122
Tks 1,uO        =   US$122
iks 1,000,000    =  US$122,000
/a   The Taka is officially valued at 18.9677
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound is now
floating relative to the US dollar; con-
sequently the Taka - US dollar exchange
rate is subject to change. Unless otherwise
stated, all currency conversions in this
report have been made at the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal in
September/October 1973, i.e. at Tks 7.55
to US$1.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BSIC       -  Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
CCIE       -  Chief Controller of Imports and Exports
MP         -  Muriate of Potash
TCB        -  Trading Corporation of Bangladesh
TSP        - Triple Super Phosphate



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RFPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THIE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
IMPORTS PROGRAiM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$50 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance the foreign exchange
costs of an imports nrogram to sustain agricultural production and to pro-
mote industrial production through higher utilization of existing capacity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Reconstructing the Economv of Bangladesh"
(R72-230) was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 13, 1Q72.
A Basic Economic Mission was in the field during September/October 1973,
and its report is being prepared. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.        The inhabitants of Bangladesh are poor, per capita income being
only about IJSS70. They have little opportunity to generate savings. Popu-
lation is growing at about 3 percent per annum, and the immediate needs of
the people are so great that current commitments at least to prevent per
capita GDP from falling form the major focus of economic management. This
makes it difficult to give attention to coherent longer-term programs.
The country is very densely populated (1,400 per square mile), lacks
natural resources, and is consequently heavily dependent on imports. All
of these factors combine to make decisions about resource allocation
exceptionally complex.
4.        Independence on December 16, 1971 brought rising expectations to
the average Bengali. But the task of improving his lot had clearly been
made much more difficult by the destruction which had taken nlace over the
previous two years, first as a result of the cyclone of late 1970 and then
from the political upheavals of 1971 which resulted in war and finally
independence. The first two years during which the Government of Bangladesh
has been in control of the country have been dominated by an emergency
situation in which law and order had to be re-established, political stability
achieved, and the administrative framework reconstituted. The millions of
refugees who had migrated temporarily to India had to be resettled and
provided with relief. The transport system needed to be reconstructed to
permit the distribution of food and other supplies.
5.        Most of these urgent tasks of reconstruction were tackled speedily,
although viable long-term solutions to the problems of the Bangladesh
economy are still proving elusive. The Government was aided in its efforts



-2-
in part by massive assistance initially from India and subsequently from
a number of other countries and private international agencies, mostly
under the auspices of the United Nations. United Nations relief operations
have been terminated as of December 31, 1973, after two years in which over
US$1.3 billion were disbursed, largely for emergency relief. The vital port
of Chittagong was restored to 90 percent of its prewar capacity by the end
of June 1972. Roads were quickly, if temporarily, repaired, and ferries
were brought in to substitute for damaged bridges. The vital Bhairab
bridge which links Chittagong to Dacca by rail was fully repaired in
Sentember 1973.
6.        Among the principal achievements of the Government since in-
dependence has been the establishment of a parliamentary democracy which
has given the people a measure of political particination which thev felt
had hitherto been denied to them. Some progress has been made towards
restoration of law and order to the cotntryside - sufficient at least
to have permitted the first parliamentary elections to be held in March
1073.
7.        But these achievements nall in the face of significant and
disturbing prohlems which remain to be solved before Bangladesh can be
said to be launched on a path of stable economic development. External
assistance has tapered off to a level below that of the initial infusions
of aid. Meanwhile the economy is empty and Government administration is
fragile. Some staple consumer items are disappearing from the market
and inflationary pressures are a serious problem.
Food and Other Production
8.        The gravest problem confronting the Government since independence
has been the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the crop of
December 1971 was disrupted by thle war. Record levels of food imports
of about 2.5 million tons in 1972 prevented the widely feared famine from
occuring. Nevertheless, per capita foodgrain availabilities in 1972
were well below 1969/70 levels and this combined with internal transport
difficulties, widespread hoarding, and smuggling of foodgrains to India,
led to a 50 percent rise in prices over the year. By October 1972 it was
apparent that the monsoon had again been poor, and the main rice crop was
20 percent lower than normal. Ranid increases in population and the need
to build up depleted stocks added to the crisis, and imports of approx-
imatelv 2.4 million tons of foodgrains were again necessary in 1973.
Assistance in financing, procuring, transporting and distributing these
massive imports was the United Nations' most conspicuous achievement, and
also an achievement for the Government, which has gradually taken over
this task.
9.        The nresent position is still uncertain.    Observers' estimates
differ, but there is a strong possibilitv that, due mainly to rather
favorable weather conditions, the main (aman) 1973/74 rice crop will prove



- 3 -
to be 7-S million tons and if so production for 1973/74 could well be a
record 12-13 million tons. Much now depends on the ability of the Government
to implement its announced policy of procuring large quantities of foodgrains
in the local market in surplus areas for distribution through ration shops to
low and fixed income groups. Failure to do so could have serious implications
for the level of imports of other commodities.    In the absence of Government
T?rocurement, hoarding and smuggling wqill reduce the total amouints available
to the economy.   Even on "optimistic" assumptions - no increase in the con-
sumPtion level or in stocks, both of which are already too low; a good harvest;
no repayment of borrowed grains - the Government will have to imDort at least
about 1 million tons for calendar 1974.    The stark reality is that even with
improv,ed crop production, Bangladesh will continue to reqtuire substantia].
foodgrain imports for a number of years.
10.        Elsewhere in the economy, non-agricultural sectors have been
slow to rtcover.   Industrial activity came to a virtual standstill from
November 1971 to January 1972.    Industrial Droduction recovered to some
degree fairly rapidly in 1972 and 1973, but 1969/70 ]evels of output
have not yet been achieved consistently (with considerable variation
among inditstv-ies). The difficulties impeding a return to full production
arise from thti lack of raw materials, spare parts, components and other
material inpuits, the lack of repair and maintenance, the inability to
replace certain' key items of machinery and equipment lost during the
disturbances, aiid power failures.   These latter have resulted more
from inadequate transmission and distribution facilities, or from problems
in transporting fuel, than from lack of generating capacity.     Transport
is also a bottleneck; there are still fewer trucks and buses than were
available before the war. With stocks extremelv low or non-existent,
any one of these factors can cause an enterprise to come to a complete
standstill.   The productivity and profitability of industrial enterprises
are generally low wnd their financial position precarious, making their
full r-ecoverv more difficult to achieve. In addition, there are significant
pockeirs of labor unrest.   The resulting low levels of output have been
a major factor in contributing towards the high levels of inflation.     In
major cities the cost of living increased by 60 percent in the year ending in
June 1973.
Trade
11.       Total exports in fiscal year 1972/73 are estimated at about
US.q370 million, which compares with about US$500 million exported to
Pakistan and other countries in the prewar period. Much of this decline
is on items such as tea, matches and spices, which were formerly exported
to Pakistan. In view of the uncertain prospects for the international
prices of jute and jute goods, the 1973/74 export target of about T!SS450
million (Annex IV) will be difficult to achieve.    A subsidy of 30 nercent
has been given to 79 non-jute exports since the beginning of FY1973/74,
but this is unlikely to contribute much to export earnings in the short
run becauise of sutbstantial increases in the costs of production since
indenendence, the industrial difficulties noted above, and the fact that



- 4 -
non-jute exports now represent only about 10 percent of the total value
of exports.
12.       One of the major factors impeding the growth of production (and
exports), and another major cause of the rapid increase in the general
level of prices, has been the lack of imports. Non-food imports in
1972/73 were well below the 1969/70 level. In part, this is due to
failures in the administrative arrangements for the procurement of
imports, including those provided under foreign aid. The increases in
the international prices of major imported commodities such as foodgrairis,
cotton and cement have also contributed significantly to the problems
of import planning and procurement. For 1973/74, the non-food import
targets of about US$720 million (Annex V) can be achieved only if the
efficiencv of the licensing and the importing systems is improved to a
significant degree, and only if funds do not have to be diverted to
increased food imports as a result of the failure of local procurement.
Further, it is important to note that the planned target for non-food
imports alloxws for no buildup of stocks, which is a crucial factor in
the production process.
The Annual Plans of 1972/73 and 1973/74
13.       In July 1972 the first budget and Annual Plan (for 1972/73)
were presented; they proposed some US$430 million of public development
expenditure and a further US$160 million for reconstruction. About half
of the development expenditure was for agriculture, rural institutions,
and water and flood control. The revised estimates for the 1972/73
Annual Plan show a 20 percent shortfall in development expenditure.
Considering the price rises during the year, the shortfall in real terms
was far higher. The need to provide substantial subsidies for public sector
enterprises led to larger than budgeted deficit financing through net credit
to the public sector. The money supply expanded by 82 percent between
January and December 1972. This combined with commoditv shortages to cause
serious price problems; because of their political implications these loom
large in the short-term economic concerns of the Government.
14.       The budget and Annual Plan for 1973/74, which appeared in July
1973, show an increase in projected development expenditure of 30 per-
cent over the revised estimates for 1972/73. The priority given to
agriculture remains unchanged.   The volume of aid disbursements is
estimated to be at the same level as in 1972/73 and the Plan thus places
heavy reliance on mobilizing domestic resources. Given the shortfall
on this account which took place in 1972/73, the achievement of these targets
would require improved performance both on the fiscal and project im-
plementation sides.
The First Five-Year Plan
15.       The First Five-Year Plan, covering the period 1973/74 -
1l77/78, was approved by the cabinet in earlv November 1973. The Plan
aims at increasing GDP at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent in real



- 5 -
terms, and its primary strategies are to reduce dependence on imnorts
of foodgrains and to imDrove the balance of payments by imnort substitu-
tion and export promotion. Apart from self-sufficiency in foodgrains,
the Plan expects major import substitution to come from new industries,
notably fertilizer and synthetic fibers to be based on indigenous
natural gas. To achieve these targets, the Plan calls for financial
development outlay of US$5.9 billion, about US$5.3 billion of which is
allocated to the public sector. Agriculture and water resources would
receive the highest priority with a projected outlay of about 23 nercent
of total development expenditure.
16.       The Plan places heavy reliance on mobilizing domestic resources.
It calls for savings generated in the public sector of about 41 percent
of public sector development spending, with foreign aid making un approx-
imately a further 43 percent. On the evidence of 1972/73, however, the
Plan targets for domestic resource mobilization now appear out of reach
in real terms, given current depressed income levels.
External Assistan e to Bangladesh
17.       The preceding analysis makes it evident that Bangladesh will
reauire large and continuing external assistance on very favorable terms
for some vears, if it is to achieve an acceptable growth rate. Long-
term projections suggest that, even to maintain present per capita
income levels in the face of continued population growth, net aid dis-
bursements of between US$100 million and US$200 million per annum would
be required. Average net aid disbursements of IJSS500 million per year
over the Five-Year Plan period would be required to nermit imports
to be maintained at a level of US$0.9 to 1.0 billion and the rate of
investment at the 12-15 percent of GDP level which is needed for a 5
percent per annum growth of GDP. Net aid disbursement levels of about
US$300 million would permit imports of only about U!S$700 million which,
given a higher foodgrain component and substantiallv higher world
commodity prices, would allow for no more investment goods and raw
materials than were imported in 1969/70 into the area that became
Bangladesli.
18.       Sustained growth of 5 percent per annum would produce only a
2 percent growth in per capita GDP; at this rate another two decades
would be needed before GDP per capita would pass USS100. The prospects
for achieving the required minimum import level for 1973/74, about
US$900 million including foodgrain imports, are not bright. As stated in
paragraph 11 above, the export target of US$450 million is optimistic.
Planned financing of the gap, another US$450 million, is as follows:
bilateral project aid, US$200 million; bilateral food and commodity aid,
US$150 million; IDA project aid, US$40 million; and IDA program credits
(the Reconstruction Imports Credit and the proposed Imports Progran Credit)
US$60 million.
19.       The emergency phase of foreign assistance in Bangladesh has
come to an end with the termination of the United Nations relief opera-
tions. There are no large amounts of undisbursed funds left in the UN



coordinated rehabilitation program. Total aid commitments to date,
which were about US$1.4 billion as of October 1973, have been ample
and on generous terms (with suppliers' credits forming only a small
part of overall aid inflows), and indications are that the dollar amounts
of these commitments will remain at about the same annual level, about
US$450 million through FY75. Disbursements, however, are likely to be
limited by the capacity to procure and import efficiently, by world
supply shortages of some basic commodities, and by the lack of a suf-
ficient number of wmell prepared projects.
20.       Bilateral programs of assistance during the immediate Post-
independence period have been flexible and oriented towards quick-
disbursing commodity and program lending both to relieve the critical
food situation and to respond to the country's immediate import needs.
All of the bilateral agencies, however, now wish to redirect their
operations program towards development projects, especially in agricul-
ture and rural develonment. 1Jowever, it is by no means certain that
project lending will be a major feature of external assistance to Bangladesh
over the next 12 months. Virtually all donors to Bangladesh have commit-
ted non-food commodity credits for 1973/74, though a good deal of this
aid is tied to designated sources of supply. (Even Sweden, which had
hitherto provided untied aid to Bangladesh, will tie 40 percent of its
commodity assistance this vear.)   Annex VI shows that, even under present
assumptions about project preparedness, only about 55 percent of total
non-food aid to Bangladesh during 1973/74 will be in the form of program
lending, compared with about 70 percent in 1971/72 and 66 percent in
1972/73. The estimated percentage of program aid for 1974/75 is inder
50 percent, which reflects donors' intentions of redirecting aid commitments
towards projects in the Five-Year Plan. Major donors are colnscious, how-
ever, that they mav be reqtlired to direct more resources than presently
contemplated towards program aid, because so few projects are ready, and
because the need for program aid persists.
The Case for Pro _gaL Tndin-
21.       The case for program lending rests on tihree interrelated aspects
of the current state of economic development in Bangladesh: the urgent
need for materials, spares, components and machinerv to restore industrial
production to levels of existing canacitv: the need for rapidlv disbursing
aid to help meet the foreign exchange gap; and the lack of an adequate
p:_4ect pineline. The first of these is discussed in paragraDhs 10 and 12
above and in more detail in paragraphs 37 to 39 below. The inescapable fact
is thiat, to restore existing industrial plant to good working order, equip-
ment that was destroyed, lost or worn out, Tmust be replaced and stocks of
vital spares and raw materials must be replenished.    In many industries,
the priority need is simply for a steady supply of the raw materials or
components of production. UJntil the trade gap can be closed, the need for
such imports will have to be met from aid disbursements, and commitment
of aid against project requirements will only help after a year or two at
best. Finally, a number of obvious circumstances has prevented the develop-
ment of an adequate supply of projects which can ranidly absorb commitments



- 7 -
and produce disbursements. The disturbances which resulted in the war
continued to inhibit project preparation even after independence. The
results of earlier efforts were often vitiated, and many key personnel
were lost or displaced. It is not surnrising that the Government is only
now finding both the time and the personnel to begin tackling this problem.
22.       In circumstances of continued shortages of critical items and a
severe foreign exchange constraint, program aid must continue for some
time to be a mainstay of development aid to Bangladesh, both from multi-
lateral and bilateral sources. All available funds under the Reconstruction
Imports Credit (see paragraph 47 below) have been committed since about the
end of August 1973. The Government's ability to authorize vital imports
must not be interrupted. In particular, it needs now to place orders for
the 1974/75 fiscal year. Hence the importance of the proposed credit at
this time.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Sklce Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and of the Associa-
tion in August 1972, Bank group operations in Bangladesh have concentrated
mainly on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed
under credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven
such projects in an aggregate amount of USS151.4 million (including USSt44.1
million for the repavment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
The last reactivation credit (US$25.0 million for the Highwav Project) was
signed on June 29, 1973. In addition four new credits have heen made,
totalling USf65.6 million:   US$50.0 million for a Reconstrtuction Imports
Program; USS7.5 million for the Cereal Seeds Project; US$4.0 million for
the Technical Assistance Project; and US$4.1 million for the Inland Water
Transport Rehabilitation Project.
24.       Annex II contains a summary statement of (i) IDA credits made
to Bangladesh, (ii) the loan and credits to Pakistan for completed projects
located wholly in Bangladesh for which a new loan and new credits have not
been made to Bangladesh, and (iii) notes on the status of execution of
ongoing projects.   There are no IFC investments in Bangladesh.
25.       Previous IDA lending and prospects for FY74 reflect the inter-
runtion of project preparation efforts in 1971 and the precedence taken
since then by reconstruction efforts. Two earlier IDA projects, the
Reconstruction Imnorts Credit and the Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation
project, therefore concentrated on program-type lending to meet the most
urgent short-term needs of the economy. This proposed imports program
credit also falls into this category.
26.       Although program lending will continue for some time to be a
necessary feature of IDA assistance to Bangladesh, the proportion of project
lending wil]. increase year by year, beginning with this fiscal year.    Two



- 8 -
other projects are likely to be presented to Executive Directors shortly.
One, a telecommunications project, benefits from preparation work already
done and will support part of the Five-Year Plan for telecommunications.
The second, the Barisal irrigation project, has been preDared by the
FAO/IBRD cooperative program. Two further projects should be ready for
presentation in early FY75. They are a population planning project, for
which IDA missions did considerable preparatory work, and a fertilizer
production project, for which IDA preparation missions supplemented work
already done in Bangladesh.
27.       For the longer term, IDA has provided funds under the Technical
Assistance Project to assist the Government with studies and technical
assistance needed in overcoming the hiatus in project preparation and thus
help to develop a stream of projects which would serve longer-term develop-
ment objectives. Several proposals are being prepared; subprojects are
expected to be approved shortly which will prepare for a second inland
water transport project and a second Dacca water supply project.
28.       The Association recognizes the prime importance of the agricultural
sector (on which the livelihood of about 80 percent of the population
depends) and accordingly plans to allocate to agriculture a much higher
percentage of lending than before. Before 1971 only one-third of Bank
Group lending to the area of Bangladesh went to agriculture. This was the
result both of the difficulties encountered in the formulation and execution
of agricultural projects - difficulties arising from Bangladesh's river
dominated terrain and a climate that brings devastating floods as well as
drought - and of inadequate appreciation of possible alternative investment
strategies for agriculture. A review of alternative strategies for the
development of the agriculture and water resource sector was undertaken
by the Association during 1971 and 1972. It suggested the need for a
stronger emphasis - especially during the next few years - on proiects
designed to yield results rapidly. This view of priorities is set forth in
detail in the Bank's nine volume "Land and W4ater Resource Sector Study"
(Report No. PS-13, dated December 1, 1972). With this in mind, a number of
agricultural projects are being prepared or will be prepared under the
Technical Assistance Project. Projects already under preparation include
minor irrigation works and supporting agricultural inputs in the Mluhuri
and Karnafuli river areas, an inland fisheries project, an integrated rural
development project, an agricultural training project, and a second food-
grain storage project.
29.       Growth of sectors other than agriculture will require attention
as well, particularly the development of the transportation system to
improve the distribution of agricultural inputs and bring farm output and
food imports to market, and the development of industries, especially those
serving the rural areas (such as fertilizer) and those based on agricultural
materials. The scope for further transportation projects should be defined
by the Bangladesh Transportation Sector Survey now being completed with
tUnited Kingdom assistance. In industry, the Association has completed a
survey of the small-scale sector (Report No. 154a-BD, July 23, 1973) and a
second small-scale industries project is expected to carry on the work of
the first, reactivated project. It may also help rural-based industries
such as cottage and handloom industries.



- 9 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
30.       The proposed Imports ProgLam credit, like its predecessor thi..
Reconstruction Imports Program Credit, i. intended to provide thc Government
with the abiAty to finance priority imports of raw materials and equipment
necessary to make use of existing productive capacity. In July 1973, the
Government requested a second program credit. An Association mission
appraised the proposed credit from September 13 to October 17, 1973, and
negotiations were held in Washington on December 17-z1. The Government
was represented by Mr. M. Syeduzzaman, the Secretary of the Planning Com-
mission, Mr. A. H. Choudhury, an Executive Director of the Bangladesh Bank,
and Mr. N. Islam, First Secretary (Economic) at the Bangladesh Embassy in
Washington.   A Cre.it and Project summary is attacned as Annex III.
31.       The Reconstruction Imports Program Credit covered a broad, multi-
sectoral range of goods. I_ is proposed in the second, or Imports Program
credit,to concentrate primarily on the revival of production in certaint
priority industries. As noted in detail in paragraphs 58 to 60 below,
this will enable tht AssociaLion to monitor more closely the use of the
proceeds of the credit, and to measure more effectively the benefits
achieved. It is appropri--e, therefore, to provide as background a brief
picture of the industrial sector in Bangladesh, and the conditions under
which it has operated since independence. The forthcoming basic economic
report will provide a more exhaustive treatment of the sector, but it is
important for the purposes of the proposed credit to provide a view of the
bottlenecks preventing the fuller utilization of existing capacity.
The Industrial Sector
32.       General - Historically, the manufacturing sector of Bangladesh
has been greatly influenced by the scarcity of natural resources. Today,
industry is a small but important segment of the emerging national economy.
It accounts for some 8 percent of GDP, and 6 percent of total employment.
Perhaps two-thirds of all industry is agro-based, and the textile sector
alone (that is, jute and cotton processing) accounts for more than two-fifths
of total industrial value added, and for more than a half of total industrial
labor force. At the other end of the industrial spectrum is the small-
scale sector composed mostly of cottage-type units. Between these two
extremes are industries processing food, tobacco, skins and hides, wood,
metals, oil, and natural gas. Bangladesh has among the lowest levels of
per capita production and consumption of industrial goods of any country.
33.       Compared with other sectors, the direct physical damage to in-
dustries caused by the war was not very sizeable, but the sector as a
whole was seriously affected by the disruption of vital material linkages
of enterprises, and by general uncertainty. The new Government nationalized
most medium- and large-scale industrial units and the public sector now
covers the units that belonged to the public sector previously under tne
management of the East Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation,
the units that were owned by West Pakistani entrepreneurs and abandoned



- 10 -
by them during the war, and all the units in the jute, cotton textile and
sugar industries. The public sector now comprises about 350 units with
about 250,UO0 workers and about 70 percent of the fixed assets of modern
manufacturing, that is, excluding cottage industries. These are organized
under several industrial "corporations" called the Public Sector Corpora-
tions, under a ministerial body.
34.       The private industrial sector now consists mostly of small-scale
enterprises.  Private medium- and large-scale units exist to a significant
extent only in the pharmaceutical (three foreign owned units), edible oil
and steel re-rolling industries. New enterprises with assets of above
US$333,000 must be in the public sector. Existing private sector units
below the US$333,000 benchmark may not grow past US$465,000 without being
absorbed into the public sector.
35.       Industrial Production and Constraints in 1972/73 - Industrial
production in 1972/73 showed some improvement over the previous year, but
was still unable to return to the prewar (1969/70) level in most enterprises.
Production of most items (see Annex VII, Table 1) returned to about 70 percent
of the 1969/70 levels, and only a few items surpassed the 1969/70 levels.
36.       Problems derived from the transition into the public sector, which
started in April 1972 and continued through 1972/73, or inherited by the
public sector from past conditions, affected industrial production in 1972/73.
To resume production in these units, the Government and the Corporations often
had to rehabilitate physical production facilities and re-establish manage-
ment structures. More important, they sometimes found that enterprises
lacked working capital. This problem was not solved until the Government
directed nationalized banks to meet the requirements. The problems of
transition still exist. Experienced management staff is scarce. An
efficient division of responsibilities among the Government, the Corporations
and the individual firms has not yet been worked out.
37.       Other familiar major problems were sometimes aggravated in 1972/73.
In general, shortages of imported inputs, labor troubles, and power failures
prevailed throughout all industries, while loss of markets in the former
1West Pakistan and shortages of local raw materials hampered production in
some industries.
Short-Term Prospects for the Industrial Sector - The prospects
-ior z',7J/74 Industrial production depena on o-vercoming the shortages of
imported inputs and spare parts, and also the .cwer and labor problems.
Regarding electric powe. some mechanical difficultie3 affecting power
gsneration have been repaired; however, general shortages due to the in-
adequate transmission network, small technical troubles and scarcity of
fuel are likely to continue. The future of labor problems is more difficult
to foresee, and positive measures to deal with them must be a first prio-
rity for the Government. Trantsportation bottlenecks for local and imported
materials have been partly but not completely removed.



39.       Availability of imported raw ma.erials and parts continues to be
a major constraint. The scarcity of foreign exchange is of course the
main factor. Against an estimated import requirement of about US$630 million
needed to run industries on a single-shift basis only during the period
from independence to June 1973, the Government was able to issue only
US$265 million of import licenses. An ever worsening international com-
modity price situation has further aggravated the problem and will surely
affect production in 1973/74 and beyond (see Annex VIII). The supply situation
of a few items has become so tight that Bangladesh is not able to import
them at any cost because goods simply are not available in the international
market. As a result, most industrial units have kept very low stocks of
materials and parts, or none at all, whereas six months of stocks are
desirable for most items due to the long time needed for importing. Pro-
vision of imported materials is the most crucial problem which the Govern-
ment faces in increasing industrial production.
40.       Production targets for 1973/74 for selected industries are given
in Annex VII, Table 1. These targets, based on Government estimates, have
been adjusted downwards by the appraisal mission in some cases where they
were clearly a.ealistic.    The resulting targets are still very optimistic;
they do not reflect, for instance, the recent and expected increases in
prices of imported materials. Even if these targets were achieved, pro-
duction for about one third of the industries selected for illustration
would still be below 1969/70 levels.
41.       More important, production targets are not high enough to utilize
existing capacity fully. If the targets were reached, capacity utilization
ratios in 1973/74 would still b- less than 70 percent for the majority of
the industries (see Annex VII, Table 2). These levels would be considerably
lower were it not for the expected disbursements of large amounts of program
lending by th.- Association and by bilateral donors. Utilization of existing
capaciry must continue to enjoy a top priority in the Government's industrial
policy, and for external assistance to Bangladesh.
42.       The Import Control System - Another important factor presents a
serious obstacle to efficient industrial production in Bangladesh: the
system of import controls. Some of the problems of the system, as they
have affected the rate of utilization of the Reconstruction Imports Program
Credit, are discussed, with suggestions for improvement, in paragraphs
45-48 below. The system is summarized briefly in Annex IX, which indicates
the considerable scope for delay which is inherent in the system. The system
is in need of a thorough review by competent analysts who should be asked for
recommendations for a complete overhaul. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to conduct such a study, to be comupleted on a timetable and with terms
and conditions to be agreed with the Association.
43.       Supervision of the Reconstruction Imports Program Credit has
shown that although the system can lead to long and costly delays, constant
vigilance of each transaction can greatly speed up the process. Accordingly,
as an interim measure, the Government also agreed at negotiations to the
strengthening of the unit in the Planning Commission already established



- 12 -
to monitor the progress of the credit, especially to expedite actions in
all concerned agencies in the import process up to the time of shipment of
goods.
The Reconstruction Imports Credit (345-BD)
44.       The Reconstruction Imports Credit w7as signed in November 1972 for
the purnose of assisting the Government in meeting the most pressing import
recuirements of an economy in the early stages of recovery from the severe
setbacks caused by cyclone damage in 1970 and the war of 1971. The list
of goods agreed between the Government and IDA as eligible for financing
was broad, covering all major sectors - agriculture, transport and com-
munications, and industrv - and two major categories of needs: (i) equip-
ment and snares to replace or repair capital goods destroyed or damaged
in 1970 and 1971 in order to restore the economy's prewar capacity, and
(ii) materials, components and intermediate goods needed as inputs to
utilize existing production capacity in agriculture and industry.
45.       Utilization of the Credit suffered immediately from delays by the
Government in organizing imports to be financed.   The Government was
reluctant to issue licenses against the Credit until the Credit became
effective. It did not even begin the process of allocating the funds to
potential end-users tntil late February 1973. Given the time necessary
under the import control system for the notification of end-users and the
preparation, review and approval of license anplications, the majority of
licenses were issued only in the June - August 1973 period.   Of course,
further time'was required for tendering, ordering, and shipping, before
disbursements could begin.
46.       Another cause of slow utilization of the Credit was the Govern-
ment's reluctance to issue import licenses for goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, in amounts greater than the total amount of
the Credit. Thus, delavs by individual users, or cauised by the import
control svstem, or arising from the need to reallocate funds to higher
priority uses, have not been balanced by more rapid utilization elsewhere.
47.       As a result of these delays, only a small portion of the goods
to he imported under the Credit has arrived and been utilized so far.
Accordingly, the Credit had no impact on production in 1972/73, although
it will contribute substantiallv to production in 1973/74. As of November
30 the Government had issued licenses against the proceeds of the Credit for
a total value of US$49 million.   Of this amount letters of credit have
been opened for UtS$37 million, including IJS$21 million against which the
Association has issued agreements to reimburse. In addition, the Government
requested reimbursement for an additional UJS$11 million of eligible goods
or(lered before, hutt paid for from the Covernment's cash resources after,
the signing of the Credit. Disbursements as of December 31, 1973 amount
to US$21.7 million.
48.       After the initial slow start, progress in accelerating letter of
credit openings and disbursements has been rapid and heartening in recent
months, and it now appears that the Credit should be almost fully disbursed



- 13 -
bv the end of June 1974.   However, the Government has been urged to adopt
practices xwhich will prevent repetition of the kind of delays experienced
under the Credit. The Government has realized the cost of excessive caution
in issuiing licenses under the Reconstruction Imports Credit and confirmed
at negotiations that it planned substantial advance licensing (US$25 million
before December 31, 1973) against the funds to be made available under the
proposed Imports Program credit. Further, the Government agreed at
negotiations to issue licenses well in excess of the amount of the credit.
49.       The Government's allocation of the proceeds of the Reconstruction
Imports Credit reflected the availability of alternative financing and
the feasibility of importing goods rapidly, as well as the Government's
overall priorities and development objectives. The initial pattern of
allocation was changed from time to time as the Government withdrew allo-
cations from enterprises whose utilization of their share of credit was
slow and reallocated the funds to those whose utilization had been more
expeditious. Difficulties in procuring some eligible items, such
as rock phosphate, were also a cause of license reallocation. The present
expected pattern of utilization of the proceeds of the Credit, by sector,
is:  agriculture, 10 percent; transport and communications, 20 percent;
industry, 61 percent; and construction, 9 percent.
50.       The beneficiaries which have been able to act most expeditiously
in utilizing their allocations have been the Public Sector Corporations and
the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB), a Government owned organiza-
tion which, at the direction of the Government, procures certain items,
e.g. bulk commodities where large orders may get better prices, for both
public and private sector firms. Imports administered by the eight major
Public Sector Corporations, together with raw cotton imported through the
TCB (but used exclusively by public sector mills), account for 68 percent of
letters of credit opened. A few major items - vehicle spare parts, cotton
y:-rl, cement - were directed towards specific industrial units in both the
public and private sectors. Apart from those items, private industrial
units have used only a small portion of the credit.
51.       The TCB utilized its licenses fairly rapidly for most items for
which it was the sole importer through bulk procurement (which included
caustic soda, cotton yarn, raw cotton, and cement). It encountered
problems, however, in procurement and distribution of certain items. In
the case of rock phosphate, TCB was not able to cope with rising prices
and a difficult stupply situation, and the stubstantial purchases necessary
to keep up fertilizer production were not made.
52.       In the case of cement and corrugated iron sheet delays and confusion
often resulted from the complicated distribution system, although it was
designed to meet priority needs first. Because of their importance - con-
struction is almost at a standstill - these items are included in the proposed
list of goods for the proposed Imports Program credit. However, given the
critical, shortages, there is need for a clearer definition of priorities,
anl(l better adlministration of distrihtition arrnngements to see that essential
concstruction needs are met.  Accordingly, the Government has discussed1 with
the Association plans for the distribution of the amounts of these goods to



- 14 -
be financed under the proposed credit, and the Government and the Association
also have agreed to keep these plans under continuous review.
53.       Cotton yarn also had distribution problems.   Both raw cotton and
finished yarn were imported under the Reconstruction Imports Credit, and
both are includee again in the proposed list of goods for the proposed Imports
Program credit. As with the construction items, future distribution plans
and continuous review were agreed at negotiations.
54.       Parts of the small-scale industries allocation also have been
slow to be used. Two agencies, the Ministry of Industry and the Bangladesh
Small Industries Corporation (BSIC), were each allocated $1 million. The
Ministry was able to find takers for only 20 percent of its allocation.
BSIC recommended to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE) the
issuance of licenses to 237 small units on the basis of an extensive assess-
ment of applicants' requirements. However, because of differences of opinion
on division of responsibility for administration of the credit beLween BSIC
and CCIE, issuing the licenses took nearly six months. The Government agreed
at negotiations that BSIC should have sole responsbility for distributing the
proceeus of the proposed Imports Program credit to the Small-Scale Industries
sector.
55.       There are many difficulties within the national banking system.
It took some time for the nationalized banks to establish sufficient
correspondent banking relationships in some countries wnere goods were to
be procured under the Credit. A further problem has been that many key
posts in the foreign departments of the banks had been occupied by West
Pakistanis before independence, resulting in a lack of adequately trained
staff and administrative continuity after independence.
56.       Mlany of these difficulties might have been expected in a new
state. Specific remedies 'or some have been suggested and agreed, and for
others it is hoped that the general review of the import system (paragraph
42 above) will suggest methods of improvement. However, as mentioned
above, progress has already been much improved in recent months. The
Government has shown its concern for rapid utilization by reallocating
funds to other priority users, and it is acting to license ahead for the
proposed Imports Program credit.  'Tle Government's concern, and the arrange-
ments made during negotiations should go a long way towards assuring that
the purpose of the proposed credit, rapid provision of vital imports, will
be n<
TEh; Proposed Thports Progrym Credit
57.       The Reconstruction Imports Program Credit was designed to meet
the needs of an emergency situation, and it truerefore financed inputs
for several sectors - industry, agriculture, power, and the transport
system - with agriculture and transportation receiving large allocations.
It is now appropriate to provide a sharper focus to the uses of the
proposed credit by concentrating more resources on the highest priority
industries. Broadly defined, these are the industries that (a) produce



- 15 -
goods for export, (b) serve the essential requirements of consumers, and
(c) serve the key transportation and construction sectors. The need for
exports, transportation and construction is obvious; essential consumer
goods also must be given high priority in order to reduce the scarcity of
necessity items contributing to the high rate of inflation and the general
feeling among the public that the living standard is deteriorating.
58.       Narrowing the range of industries will make it easier to monitor
their progress and to follow and supervise the use of Association funds.
It will also make it possible to meet their needs more systematically.
For many industries, raw materials were not provided under the Reconstruction
Imports Credit. For others, replacement machinery was not covered. For
the proposed Imports Program credit, the industrial part of the list of
goods has been arranged on an industry-by-industry basis. The industrial
category provides for components, spare parts, balancing equipment, raw
materials, chemicals and packing materials for each of the eleven sub-
sectors covered.
59.       Another reason for sharpening the focus of the proposed credit
is that, for many of the items financed under the existing Reconstruction
Imports Credit, it is now appropriate to consider project lending. Finished
tugs and barges for the inland water transport system and telecommunications
items are examples for which projects are already in the pipeline. (The
proposed credit does, however, include a small amount of steel in the
shipbuilding industry which will make tugs and barges in Bangladesh.) For
items such as tubewells and low lift pumps, which were included in the
Reconstruction Imports Credit, the need is still urgent and the potential
benefits great, but there are problems in utilization which should properly
be dealt with in the context of a project credit. These include such issues
as proper location for pumps and wells and their integration with
complementary programs in agriculture and rural development.
60.       Proposed Uses of the Proceeds of the Credit - The categories of
items which would be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
credit are set out in Annex X which also shows the main items expected
to be imported for each industry, the estimated total annual import require-
ment for each and the proposed ceiling for expenditures under the credit
(see paragraphs 17 and 78 below). The proposed Development Credit Agree-
ment will contain only the major headings ana tht. propostd ceilings. The
categories are discutsed in detail in the paragraphs which follow.
bl.       A. Agriculture.   FertilizeL is one of the key inputs in the agri-
cultural technology bas-d on hig.i yielding seeds for agricultural production.
In Bangladesh, increased use of fertilizer along with other agricultural
inputs is of immense significance as, due to limited possibilities for
expansion of cultivated land, increased production must come from land
already being farmed.
62.       Th_ proposed credit would help meet remaining import needs for
1973/74 and the requirement to build up stocks by July 1974 to meet the
needs of the 1974 aman rice crop. The total requirement for 1973/74 is
thus estimated at 716,000 tons of urea, triple super phosphate (TSP) and



- 16 -
muriate of potash (MP). Allowing for estimated local production of urea
and TSP, and expected arrivals from the aid pipeline, there are uncovered
import requirements of 84,000 tons of urea, 17,000 tons of TSP, and
29,000 tons of MP.
63.       The actual requirements may differ from the above figures as
between urea, TSP and MP, because distribution of fertilizers may differ
from the planned programs. More important, it may be necessary to import
more finished TSP if rock phosphate cannot be procured. The two local TSP
factories did not produce any TSP in 1972/73 because imported rock phosphate
was not available. The ceiling proposed in Annex X would meet the needs for
rock phosphate imports and the uncovered import requirements listed above,
less an estimate of new aid commitments from other sources. Given the
possible need for importing a different mix, the Government should be allowed
to use the funds flexibly for any fertilizer or material for the manufacture
of fertilizer.
64.       B.  Industry.   Eleven priority industrial sub-sectors have been
selected to be recipients of the proceeds of the proposed credit. Although
private sector firms in these industries will be eligible, it is expected
that public sector units, because they dominate these industries, will
utilize the majority of the industry portion of the proposed credit. The
most important private sector users would be handloom weavers, small-scale
induatries and construction businesses. Tute first two sub-sectors discussed
below, the textile and jute industries, were the subject of an intensive
review during appraisal and are discussed in more detail in Annex XI. If
there are further program credits to Bangladesh, there will be further
additional inteiLsive surveys of industries selected as recipients of
Association funds.
b5.       The jute industry is the major foreign exchange earner of Bangladesh.
Export of jute manufactures (i.e. excluding raw jute) amounted to about
US$185 million in 1972/73. In addition, the industry is important for employ-
ment, with 160,000 workers. It depends on imports for consumable and
mechanical spare parts, dyes and chemicais.
66.       The textile industry is comprised of mills and handloom weaving
shops, and also is a major employer in the country. Because of inability
to import sufficient quantities of cotton (much of which formerly came from
Pakistan), the industry has not been able to meet local demand and therefore
the country has had to import finished products. Even so, there is drastic
shortage of finished cloth. The industry can utilize the large and presently
partly unused capacity in mills and handlooms shops only by securing impurts
of raw cotton, cotton yarn or synthetic substitutes. These latter are
included as eligible items under the proposed credit because of the world
wide shortage of cotton and cotton yarn. The industry has demonstrated that
it can effectively use synthetics as a substitute. This industry needs a
large amount of spare parts because most equipment is old ana has been poorly
maintainea.



- 17 -
o7.       The paper and board industry, utilizing locally available bamboo,
jute waste and bagasse pulp, not only supplies writing and printing paper,
newsprint and board to the local market, but also has export potential.
It has already been exporting newsprint, and is trying to develop exports
of other items. Imported wood pulp is required to mix with local pulp so
as to attain better quality, which is particularly important for export,
and to fill the supply gap from local sources.
68.       Among food and allied products, the proposed credit would cover
spare parts and chemicals for processing shrimp, which is mostly exported,
and other packaged food goods.
69.       The chemical industry includes such important products as fertilizer,
pharmaceuticals and soap. Both pharmaceuticals and soap are in short supply
in Bangladesh. For pharmaceuticals, the Government estimates annual import
requirement of finished goods at US$13 million, which accounts for about
60 percent of the country's total requirement. The industry saves foreign
exchange by importing raw materials and processing them locally. Current
utilization of overall local capacity is estimated at about only 4U percent.
The credit would cover materials and spare parts required by the industry.
70.       The sugar industry has not been able to satisfy local demand,
although it has sufficient production capacity. Raw materials are locally
available. The industry would use the proceeds of the proposed credit for
importation of spare parts and balancing equipment.
71.       The steel and foundry industry consists of the Chittagong Steel
Mill, re-rollers and foundries. The products of the Mill and re-rollers
(the Mill also supplies materials for the re-rollers) are used mainly for
construction and partly for shipbuilding. Foundries are important in
supplying small local works producing simple spare parts, which would take
i4`ustrial units a long time and cost a great deal to import.    The industry
requires imported pig iron, steel scraps and billets.
72.       The commercial vehicle industry assembles completely knocked-down
components into trucks and buses with less cost than that of importing
finished vehicles. Because an estimated 5,000 trucks alone were damaged
during the war, out of about 9,000 private trucks on the road previously,
the Government has imported about 3,000 trucks and buses. However, more
vehicles are clearly necessary to meet the road transport requirement. The
need for buses for public transport, where there are both public and private
sector firms, is particularly urgent.
/3.       The shipbuilding industry supplies barges, tugs and ferries and
tankers for inland-water transportation which assumes the largest traffic
burden in Bangladesh. After independence the Government established a plan
to reconstruct the war-damaged inland-water fleet, and nationalized a major
part of it. There are at present two large shipyards in the pubic sector,
and two more are under construction. These yards are technically capable of
meeting the demand for these vessels though the industry is heavily dependent
on imports of steel materials and equipment to be installed in the vessels.



- 18 -
74.       The construction industry is hard pressed to meet demands for new
and rehabilitated houses and facilities for essential government and business
activities. Shortages of cement and corrugated iron sheets have constrained
construction, and, at the same time, endangered jobs for many construction
workers. Shortages in cement, which were more severe than in corrugated iron
sheets, have brought the price per bag up from US$2 just after independence
to US$7. Recently cement has virtually disappeared from the market.
75.       small-scale industry units cover a wide sDectrum both in types of
industry and in geographic L-ocations. They have close links with local markets
and local material sources.
76.       The Public Sector Corporations will continue to be responsible
for administering most imports under portions of the proposed credit to
be utJlzed by their subsidiar1 units. TCB or CCIE will be responsible
for importing textile yarns, foundry grade pig iron, cement and corrugated
iron sheets to be used by both the private public sectors.
7X.       Ceilings - Annex X shows the estimated annual import requirements
for fertilizer and the selecl.'t.d industries. These amounts were based upon
the import requirements for 1973/74, but the levels are not expected to
change significantly from one year to the next. The proposed credit will
in fact cover imports largely to be made in 1974/75, although some goods
are expected to arrive in 1973/74, and all of the licenses are expected
to be issued in 1973/74. The ceilings have been determined in most cases by
taking the estimated annual import requirement and subtracting amounts
expected to be filled by other foreign assisLance or normally covered by
cash licenses against Bangladesh's foreign exchange earnings. In some cases,
e.g. the textile industry, the ceilings have been further reduced in order to
assure that the proceeds of the credit will be spread over all of the vital
subsectors selected.
78.       The ceilings which were agreed with the Government during negotia-
tions have been incorporated into the Credit Agreement. However, the
Government and the AssociaLion will keep these ceilings under continuing
review.
79.       Procuremenrt - The bulk of the imports to be financed under the
proposed credit, including some of the goods to be used by the private
sector, will be imported through Government agencies. Normal Government
pz-r-urement procedures require international competitive bidding or at
least requesti-ag offers frovi a minimum of t}.-ae international suppliers.
These procedures will be foliowed ror all procurement under the credit
except for (a) goods cos,:ing less thaa US$100. )00C, and (b) special cases
in which proprietary items, compatible spares and components, or delivery
on an emergency basis are required. Imports of goods costing less than
US$1U0,000 will be made through normal commercial channels.
80.       These procedures follow those of the Reconstruction Imports Credit
with the exception that the exemption from international bidding or shopping
for goods costi.g less than US$100,000 would now be applied to the public



as well as the private sector. This will simplify and expedite Association
approval of disbursement applications.
81.       Disbursement - Under the Reconstruction Imports Credit, there
were disbursement delays which arose because of the IDA disbursement pro-
cedure chosen by the Government in all cases over US810,000: the issuance
by the Association of agreements to reimburse. The Government had not wished
to first make payment to suppliers from its an foreign exchange resources,
and then be reimbursed by the AssociLation, giving as its reason the temporary
loss of reserves in a very tight foreign exchange position. This position
is still precarious, but because the Government recognizes the need for
rapid utilization of this proposed Credit, it was agreed to raise the amount
below which the Government would first make payment from its own foreign
exchange reserves to US$20,000.
82.       The Bangladesh Bank would be responsible for obtaining disburse-
ment from IDA and arranging with banks to obtain the necessary shipping
documents. The Bangladesh Bank would also assure, and certify, in each case
that the goods have been supplied by IBRD member countries or Switzerland
and that they have not been previously financed by any bilateral or other
multilateral source. These documents would then be forwarded by the
Bangladesh Bank to the Association in support of withdrawal applications.
All items included in the list of goods and paid for after the date of the
credit would be eligible for financing under the Credit. It is expected
that all contracts under this credit would be placed by September 1974
and that the bulk of disbursements will be made within 18 months of the
date of the credit. The credit should be fully disbursed within 24 months,
i.e. by about January 1976.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Renublic of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Credit
Agreement contains no unusual provisions and is similar to the Credit
Agreement for the Reconstruction Imports Program Credit.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
85.       T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Januarv 15, 1974






BANGLADESH
AlMEXS 
COUNTRY DATA                                      Page 1 of 3 pz~geo
AREA                                                      POPULATION                                        DENSITY
141,131 kIsM                                                  75 million (mid-197 )530Pe3r Ice2
840 Per leot2o arahle land
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
___________________Indonesia           Japan  _       Ira
1960           197o               1970           197 0          19706
GNP PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) LI08                                                                                     12               8
DEMOGRAPI{IC
Crd7 7hrate (per thoeusand)                                       57           48                   48           18.9          45-47
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                         27~           19                  19             6.9          15417
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                       167           140                 125k           13.0       100O-140
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                       -46            47                  48            71.0         49-53
Gross reproduction rate! 321.6                                                       3.2                  32             1.0           3.6
Population growth rate 13                                              2.8           3.0                  2.0            1.0           3.1
Population growth rate - urban                                         _________4.5                                      3.25G-
Age structure (percent)2407
0_1~~~~~~~~  ~~~547                                                                   44            2.              7
15-6b                                                                _48            51                  54            69.1           4E
65 and over                                                           3             3                   2              6.9
Derzendency ratio /5                                                    1.1          1.0                 0.9             0.5           1.8
Urban Population as percent of total                                     5            7                    17           68.0           41--
Family Planning:     Noa of acceptors cumulative (thoujs.)                                                L7_______15                  662
No. of uasers (% of carried women)                 ________                          _____________5-10
EILf OYMENT
Total labor force (thousands)                                           18,300      24,900                40.100       52,215.0      894BE/
Percentage employed in agriculture                                      75          75                    63          20.6           41
Percentage unemployed                                                _________2                                         1.2          3
INJCOME DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                         .
Percent of national income received by highest 5%                                                                                       so
P'ercent of national Thrcone received by highest 20%                     ________                                        14.85O
Percent of national income received by lowest 20%                                                                         455'
Percent of national income received by lo'west 40%                      _________
DISTRIBUTION OF L.AND OWNERS1IIP
%owned by top 10% of -ownr                                                           34________ I
% owned by smallest 10% of owners                                          .           .1________________
HEALTH AND UUTRITIONI
Population per physician                                                io400L      10SQ                   6 000         898- 0  --- 3100D
Population per nursing person                                          164 ,00    107.005                  5.740         300          20
Population per hospital bed                                             11.200       9,400                  1200          79.0          842
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements /5                                     54-E/                76,/          104.3           0
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per dayTL/6                                   3.&9' gS                            75.1           hi
Of which, animal and pelse                                          ____3_______iA                                      47.3
Death rate 1-bi years /7                                                               3.0/                                2.1-
EDUCATION
AdJusted /d primary school enrollment ratio                              44.           57                    77           98.0         56E/
Adjusted 7W secondary school enrollment ratio                            9'              '/1                             86.0         285-/
Years of achoolieg provided, first and second level                       10.1         10--c-
Vocational enrollment as % of see. school enrollment                    _________                            20             9.
Adult literacy rate %                                                     23                                 56               ~         y
HOUSING
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                                              3 1f'11                                           2. 2,
Percent of occupied units without piped water                                        82.1'                                 5 1
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                                                             .
Percent of dural population connected to electricity                    _________                                                       4lik
CONSUMPTION
Radio receivers per 1000 population                                    _________                            114           255.0        9 3-2
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                      _   _______                          2             84.8        20
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                                     3           11                    18          2972.0        267S'
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year...                                                                   0.2            19.1         0.4
Notes:   Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                    account of environimental temperature, body weights,an
the latest years.    Latest periods refer in principle to                    distribution by age and sex of national populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-                  /6  Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as ectab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.     On'ly significantly different                    lished by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimum
periods or years are footnoted separately.                                   allowance of 60 gramns of total protein per day, and 20 grazes of
/I   The Per Capita GNIP estimates for years other than 1960                 animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
is at market prices, calculated by the same conversion                   protein.   These standards are somewhat lower than those of 75
teohunique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                                 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
/2  Average nu.mber of daughters per woman or reproductive                   average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
age.                                                                     Survey.
/3   Population growth rates are for the decades ending in               /7  Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
- 1960 and 1970.                                                           ages 1 through S may be used as a first approximation index of
/A   Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets toI                      malnutrition.
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 65.                 /8   Percentage en~rolled of corresponding population of school age
15   FAG reference standards represent physiological re-                      as defined for each counitry.
qairerents for normal activity and health, taking
2/ 1962; b/ aver 5020 inhabitants; c/ 1971; d/ 1967-68; a! Nurses only, excludes otlher psranedi2-;
f/   Percent of population receiving ad-equate protein/calories in 1962/64;           V/  1964 -66;  5/   1-5
i/ Up to eind ci lower secondary; J/ 1968; k/ 1966; 1/ Urban only, 19681 Ln/ 1969



010110MIC DWEMPEU30TJf 21T0
(A.Ounots in, rallc f U.S. dollars)
A~~t-l        p                    '961 ~~/197
Actual 9P~1         71        -         'H   1909O -197r-  1797 -  7ii   19  1972
53210181. 3013121115~~~~~~ I -q72 
3-3.-a4 A0--r4 at ____      -   -- 
iCcolt.   (ccot capacity  --.8  33'             -5I 5                7    1.
Pecat ,lp              I 5   I'- 12                                    3
'oaip.-p-occdit-ccco  iii          -,33,1             I9302
lc' nta  (ia-   clt    7~ I P'.                         1.11 7          13
Ucoocc  cO  r5e.       3                            384  3 2  6I .1
Nat io-l Savlwng          7a     5                       -
OPP.ClJ.011-"i all  Auci oP  01cc at ourect~~~~~~~~F cArct                            i- If  ctcl-
lispt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Cap  to]  flcc   - ~~~~~ - 1         -  -1 -7  .7  -7
CcaoeIcl I ,0 V--- T- -t
Tota  T.c r   Ompu  c(i0)i-45                             TTI31.
l>rcnaey  ic clot  . -  'I i               - -  - -~~~~~~,2   . 
It         -70                       2
Icod  it-I       Ii.2
7313  Al  '--t --- ]    ex,i I i 7-  )9 1  31B  i -oi  oloog  ioe         oo  Grc3  c-.5               co
A "r.i-I z. n-        2~,50  3o45P                                         t.5             531.0
Mi.ni-           )fO2   7~L    - 3                                    3.1             303   -
o 1 iC  T-rootict   1 935 I773)  I07 07  117 1 7 2 I9272U3  1 73/4! 19174/ S  1517      15727 3  191 73i10 9 
-i  31e    -       --    ~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~3 2' 4                       3>     07
_____            IA-~    ~~     ~      ~~~~~~~ 4 -  i1  391                            2 -5  50
7   3                      ---           742 23
dcc  3-'coil-  Iit"orcacilt  379  -   -   527  055   -     72.2   - -      03      0.0   12.1~~~~~~~~4  2 2  3  1
ladir-c.o  I-i  len I;  cp-cIcd IIuc
-Il;r  FmXP-r13T)1515r   'EP )i T33   A, c.ca  1T00 I cl.. ho).  l JfT,l -YI-[sAmI               I 3  1 Z
A o Tc, LI   ar -c -.ri.(  __9   I,      1-7 2i73 ia3 I- 13ul00 I   .i  3                 i To :OFic
lootec                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~   ~~~20. 0 19.0  --8  1 71 /74 -7i(. 7-, 
01,h 0- 010   -i-c-sl                       6.3   b3.                                       103      1 5 3
Hiirr,odotiic '.er'icOl          ~~~~  ~~~~~~~6.6  52       nd fc-tryso) 1711c81,05       20,7
D-:                   W      M~~~~~~~~00  10  Ri.-I                            lu.7
3.i. C 6002-.       fuT-  ;- jo  stilt t       8 t  lo   1 6.3
PoILC~TLo  1121 1008.35             1967-  1965 -  10721-  1973- -  H)li3tii liii
-tlcce Iou --ceoo-edIdci          Q360   - __   5.75  3970 
Ovra4eIr   01-7                     - -l    -- 2 9                  211  -t crSetg         2,12 609.0 
i-Yor 3lur--ty                             2 - 29                ro-geed P-t- AtOltrccd728          4
-  Nrccrc   iujucI Savinga  Rotc!       3 5   --    -.I             ttoc--443                    0.
CIli7   1 F I Wt101?01t  It  -ll7s3etlo!          901  -  23    I
iSao/-l  1972/ 3 IC9uI  139711  roosth cot-  17  12i     Ii      It    'Ir-Lt  Pat-i
t.-ttiOotitc-c   ~~~~~~~~~~~16.1  20 . 5  o5I  20.  32.1.I
),sJcti6/               1.      1.08   5.2I  6.9      5 
-  cc           1.0     ~~~~  ~~~~  ~~~~3.9  9.2  134. 9  3
Total          16.9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~2tc.m2  1 0-0  100.3oo  721128
- ooc opplicoblo  - cii croopl~~~Ii;i 0blc 
--  not t.coilaclc  .  1.-to  hea hlE  cii.-
tolIt ia t o oi-o
I/ IThe, dote fcc 1973 --wadc or tootc c tii-p,je 00- booed on thcc Fira 88c-Y-ur P1-
tihe, or  iteoa ot1972/23 prli-  -ed  -h-iagt  rot  -od herni  cli.-yor -   tecto.p-rble
oPt cliceh a--,io  oioca tcr  1965 - l9ll.
2/ includes ate~ ii-of,c-r- a-d lobe r-pocca.
3/ioldocd         1- co,Iioth -od -ulfare
4/  DebL  -atri,.-s.
5/ Oobt atri-it -nd coigo
'I7/,t colodieg c , lcccoc ~t) cod aciIcos
7/1922/73 pri- -c cd echoerat- 
0/ T-1a Fe--adaitoe
c-tt  311I fig-c-  fce cc  iao  couc botia J,oy 1  J1- J   30.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
EALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTTiFNAL ASSISTANCE AIID DEBT
maaoentn in millicns of 11.7. do1lars at c-rrent pricea
2a                                          2/                                 Ag    oon
Actual                         Estimated                                   Pro loted                                   Growth Fits
19-69          19710    1971         l71          1973          177.        197 5       1976         197         18          17965-1970
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
7portn (in1. NFS)                        449         48^          404         295           450          532 384                  677         702 12
Tmporta (incl. 6FS)                      h30         711          717       _750            3IA          992       1,970        1,170       1, 17L                                    4.9
anonurcels 1-8)               101        -223         313        -661          -A90         -4;3        -7.1         -GIl        .467
Foteorot (set)
3ireot   -ntnet T-onco                     53          58          22
i    torlerS  Bni4tan    )
CurreDt Trasosfor  (rst)                   75          56          50
Ra10n00 00 Corrent A.o-ootS              -203         2 21      T-361        -53W
Private Lirsot Ecnoetloent-                                       -
OffYsi.a1 Capital Graoto
Publir 14&LT Loans
msTb..ren2ertn                                                             426            112           282         296         365         416
-800'   Sten                                                                  24           61            61           74          77          Al
ST~~~~~~~n~~~~~stn     -           -                                                               i'a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---r  W78  -
let                                     Drusnn 222 21223
Otl1el P-i-T 14ac-
DIo 94ur41 oars
lot DioborsnernDts
-rital Trslisoatolns n.e.i.                                                                                                           1999       19970    19         1972       1971;Re.e9
Chanre in lint Fesorvo-                                                                                10R1  AlD DEbT 3SRVICE
Publi c Debt 3u t . P Di3 b-s d
P   t;r_tNbt     4 -io .ome.
!'-. *., :  '  '__Inotoreot ss Public Debt
TRepeyments 00 PDblit Debt
_:Ilis 11.1. 1.7000                                                                                     Total Public Bobs Bonbon
1015                                                                                      -           Othbr D0b Serion (0.t)
ID9                                                                                       72          Total Dbo   S-rvio  (st)
1- :.-r                                                                                    10
I'll Ir MlltilatoI                                                                                   l oTrdes on Export O-oroogns (f)  11.2    1 b f      13.1
.l,ovorsmnmets                                                                            151
lopPl or:s                                                                                 30          Pu510c Itbt Snrvicn
F-niX.roarl Institataora                                                                   -           Total Dobt so-si-o
10000                                                                                      -           T   BDSDiro-t 3nveat. Ice.
Public boos n.e.i.
T1t,IA :,                                                         4..1 loan  662                      Aver.go To-so of PfbliT DBbt
Acturl Debt NOtatanding 00 Dos. 31,1913                      Iot. a-   Prior Year W&D      2.7        2.7       2 .        I           2
X7TE'RNAL DEBT                                 Dishbesed Only               P-rreot                        AMort. 00 f Pr-ar Year W&D 41 .6          4.1       1.s       2 (. 1
World BAko                                          61.8                    4.4
TIDA                                               98.G                     6.9                        IbRD DBbt CDt. & Dibuhrned
Otber   0:ltilstoral                                 6.8                     .5                             as f .ublic Dlbt OB.D       5.7        5.7       5.3       4.1
loosroansnets                                    1,129.3                   fl                               a 0   Public Debt Snrvicn  10.7      11.2       14.(      '2 1
suppliors                                           91.4                    0.4
.-os7.:oi.ai Institutions                           25.4                    1.0                        NDA Debt Ot. & Dinburoed
Bonds                                                                                                      as ji% bli DebtAGU           3.         7.9       7.3       h,' 6.
10lbli5  Debts s.o.i                                  -as                                                         b POle3 Debt Sorvioo  I.0       1.1        1.0           1
Total Plblit M&LT Debt                           t,412.9                  100.0
Oth0r M&LT D0bt5
Shaot-t.ro DBet (diNb. only)
.  sot eppltoable                                                  e  ntaff -estirte
sot avAilablo                                                   - nil or negligible
00- rasilable separately                                       --  leen thoo half ths
bht included io tatal                                              smallest uoit shoes
If Col-ndap ypor
/   Bab1oon of poy-enns deco for 1973 oo.erdc are eop-ees-d i0 -on-ta-t 1972/73 pBios end .ooheno.g






ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                          US$ Million
Number     Year                  Purpose                      Amount   Undisbursed
339       1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228 of 1971)        25.0       24.8
340       1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                  13.0       12.0
341       1972      Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208
of 1970)                                 14.0       13.5
343       1972      Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 192 of 1970)                7.3        5.1
345       1972      Reconstruction Imports                     50.0       2803
353       1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192 of 1970)                   3.0        2.7
367       1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42 of 1963)                    7.0        3.3
368       1973      Dacca Water and Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41 of 1963)                   13.2        6.1
S-14       1973      Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8 and S-10 of 1969
and 1970)                                 3.15       0.5
381       1973     Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83 of 1966)                          19.7        1.3
407       1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49
and 87 of 1964 and 1966)                 21.0       13.2
408       1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53
of 1964)                                 25.0       21.2
409       1973      Technical Assistance                        4.0        4.0
410       1973      Cereal Seeds                                7.5        7.5
424       1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation       4.1        4.1
Total               216.95- b   k147.6
/a Not yet effective.
1Ab Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.    Bank Loan and IDA Credits to Pakistan for Projects Wholly in
the Territory of Bangladesh (excluding credits being replaced by
credits to Bangladesh showJn in A abovea/
Credit                                                    US$ MiUion
Number     Year                 Purpose              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Bank        IDA
11       1961     Dacca Irrigation                                  1.0
16       1961     Inland Ports                                      2.0
321       1962     Railways                               4.7
39       1963     Brahmaputra Flood Control                         5.0
40       1963     Chandpur Irrigation I                              5.3
56       1964     Eastern Railway                                  10.0
65       1965     Inland Water Transport                            5.2
136       1969     Technical Assistance (EPWAPDA)                     2.0
4.7       30.5
Of which has been repaid              1.6        0.1
Total outstanding /b           3.1       30.14
a/ In addition tn the loan and credits listed in Parts A and B of this Annex.
there were further lending operations to Pakistan for purposes which
benefitted both Pakistan and Bangladesh.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
C.   Prjects in Execution
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1976
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. Implementation of the
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
prior to the suspension of disbursements.  The Government has now set up the
central organization for the project; local consultants have recently been
employed and task forces for execution of the subprojects are being assembled.
Mobilization of staff and preparation of tender documents have begun. Fifty
miles of primary roads have been completed and 60 cyclone shelters are under
construction and disbursements have begun to pick up.   Construction
-or the other subprojects commenced during the dry season beginning in Octooer
1973, but project execution will be at least a full year behind the schedule
anticipated at reappraisal. Additional delays may occur if the current Problem
of shortage of cement in Bangladesh cannot be quickly remedied.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project; US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. WAhen work on the project,
previously financed under Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970, was suspended in 1971,
the major project civil works were about half completed. The contractor
manufacturing equipment for the regulators had also made substantial progress.
Interim financing by Sweden provided for reappointment of project consultants,
resumption of construction and renegotiation of the contract for manufacture
and installation of the equipment for the regulators. Manufacture of this
equipment has continued on schedule. While about three million dollars worth
of construction have been completed and some additional contracts have been
awarded, preparations for tendering of most remaining construction contracts
and orders for materials and equipment are only now underway. Construction
this season will be delayed by shortage of cement.
Cr. No. 341 Tubewells Project; US,$14.0 Million Credit of November 6,
1972, Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received
in 1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The present
Credit, also in conjunption with a US$6 million Credit from Sweden and a
US$6 million grant from Canada, became effective on January 17, 1973. Contracts
for the major civil works have been awarded and construction has started.
Due to problems in evaluating some of the provisions of the tender documents
for pumps and engines, a second tendering will take place shortly. Due to
initial delays, present implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Cr. No. 343 Telecommunications Project; US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and services valued
at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to suspension of dis-
bursements. Orders have not yet been placed for the remaining equipment now
to be financed under Credit No. 343.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 345    Reconstruction Imports Project; US$50.0 Million Credit
of November 30, 1972; Closing Date: August 31, 1974
Credit became effective January 30, 1973.
(see text paragraphs 4)4-56)
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit
of January 19, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. By December 1971, when dis-
bursements were suspended, 28 subprojects had been approved and US$2.19 million
had been allocated to these projects.  Work has now begun on reactivation of
the int-errupted subprojects and canvassing for new subprojects.  So far about
70 applications have been submitted by entrepreneurs for a total of about
US$6 million equivalent, of which 10 applications for about US$1.0 million equiva-
lent have been approved by the sponsoring agency (BSIC).
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became ef'fective June 7, 1973. The project was originally
finarnced by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disburse-
m.ents were suspended, US$3.3 million had been disbursed.  The project is now
about 60 percent completed.   Following reactivation the project has been proceeding
on, schedule. However, difficulties in procuring cement and steel may cause
delays during the current construction season.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date:  June 30, 1975
Credit becamne effective June 7, 1973.  The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit lo, 41--IFAK of 1963.  By December 1971, when disbursements
-ere suspended, US$6.0 million had been disbursed.   The water supply portion
of the project is now about 75 percent completed and the sewerage portion about
L5 per..ant completed. Follo0-Vfng reactivation the project 'has been proceeding
on schedale.  However, difficulties in procuring cement and steel may cause
delays durinig the current construction season.
Cr. No. S-1l1  Irrigation Engineering Project; US$3.15 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 9, 1973.  When IDA suspended disbursements
under the original credits to Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-8 and S-10) in December
1971, the Dacca Southwest engineering was completed and the Karnafuli-Muhuri



ANNEX II
Page 5
engineering was about three quarters completed. Interim financing from Sweden
allowved the work to continue. Feasibility studies for the Muhuri project, are
expected to be finished by December 1973. Studies for the Karnafuli and
Comilla-Noakhali project, are expected to be completed by May 1974. These
proposed projects are scheduled to be appraised in FY74.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit
of May 18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Credit became effective July 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed by a US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Krcnor
credit from the Kingdom of Sweden. The Kingdom of Sweden is again providing
a 25 million Kronor Credit. The project is almost completed and 95 percent
of the new IDA and Swedish credits will go towards repaying the previous
credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25 million from IDA and about US$0.25 million
equivalent from Sweden) will be used to pay outstanding bills f or work com-
uleted crior to the war, completion of some supporting facilities for the
grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment damaged during the
l:ar, strengthening of the infestation control system, and a feasibility study
for a second grain storage project. Negotiations are underway with consultants
for the feasibility study. Progress on the slrengthening of the jetty serving
the Chittagong silo has been delayed due to slow progress in the selection of
consultants. Negotiations with these consultants have started.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. The project was originally
financel >,z two IDA credits, Credits Nos. 49-PAK and 87-PAK. By December 1971,
ihen disburseme:nts -were suspended, US$7.7 million had been disbursed out of
US$17.5 million, the aggregate total of the two former credits. The credit
adds US$3.5 million to the total of the original credits, in order to help the
government meet part of the increase in total project cost. Progress on the
agricultural university portion of the project is being delayed due to diffi-
culties in reaching agreement with the consultant architects on a revised
contract. Constructioni may also be delayed due to shortage of building material.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK.   By December 1971, when disbursements were
suspended, US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out of the original credit of
US$22.5 million. The new credit adds US$2.5 million to the original credit
amount, in order to help the government meet part of the increase in total
project cost as a result of currency realignments. The project consultant's
contract and construction contracts for the Dacca-Chittagong road (except for
paving) were signed in September. The present implementation schedule involves
several months delay in the completion of the project but the closing date
should not be affected.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$U.0 Million Credit
of June 29, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31, 1975
Credit became effective August 20, 1973. A consultants contract
has been signed for an inland water transport study, and work is under way
for completing arrangements ifith consultants for a study of future requirements
of' the Dacca Water and Sewerage Authority, and for technical advisory services
for preparation of a proposed fertilizer project. Discussions are under way
concerning several other subproject proposals.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
The terminal date for the effectiveness of this Credit has been
postponed from September 29 to January 31, 1974 due to difficulties in
the hiring of consultants.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project;
US$4.1 Million Credit of August 10, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. Detailed investigations
have indicated that the damage to the Chittagong offshore oil terminal was
more severe than previously believed. Alternative technical solutions are
being studied, and the start of work on the restoration of the terminal or
possible alternative solutions will be delayed. Delays have also occurred
in the Government's submission of comprehensive lists of spare parts, tools
and equipment to be procured under the Credit.



ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                               People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                                 US$50 million equivalent
Terms:                                  Standard.
Project Description:                    Finance imports of fertilizers and raw
materials for fertilizer production,
industrial components, chemicals, raw
materials, spare parts, balancing equip-
ment and packing materials to support
Bangladesh's priority import needs to
improve utilization of existing productive
capacity.
Procurement Arrangements:               Mainly throagh Government agencies
and the Trading Corporation of Bangla-
desh. For procurement of all items
exceeding US$100,000 (except for proprie-
tary items) offers from at least three
major international suppliers will be
required.  For imports under US$100,000.
normal commercial channels will be used.
Eligible categories of goods are shown
in Annex X.
Estimated Disbursements:                                    FY75      FY76
First Quarter             -        8         4
Second Quarter            -       12         1
Third Quarter             1       12         -
Fourth Quarter            4        8         -
5       40         5



ANNEX IV
BANGLADESH
PRDJECTED EXPORTS DURING THE FIRST FIVE-YEAR PLAN-
(US$ Million)
Loss of Earnings      Total Foreign
Merchandise                    Due to Decline in        Exchange
Year               ExPorts       Invisibles     Terms of Trade           Earnings
1973-74              417             33                                     450
1974-75              498              34                11                  521
1975-76              547             37                 17                  567
1976-77              600             40                 25                  615
1977-78              660             42                 36                  666
Total      2,722            187                89                 2,820
1/ Plan estimates. All exports are shown at F.O.B. prices.



ANNEX V
BANGLADESH
PROJECTED IMPORT REQUIREMENTS DURING THE
FIRST FIVE-YEAR PLAN 1/
(US$ Million - 1972/73 Prices)
Interme-     Consumption                      Total Non-
Capital     diate        Goods Except                    Foodgrain
Goods      Goods        E'oodgrains      Invisibles      Imports
1973-74             242        279             166              33              720
197h-75             322        327             200              34              883
1975-76             356         363            221              37              977
1976-77             377        409             252              40            1,078
1977-78             390         387            260              42            1,079
1/ Plan estimates.
The plan does not distribute Taka 45 crores of shipping and aviation capital
imports between the years of the plan. In the table above an approximate divi-
sion is assumed in which expenditures on these items increases progressively.
In addition, a contingency provision of Taka 100 crores made in the plan is
assumed to be used to increase imports of intermediate and consumption goods
each by Taka 50 crores in 1977-78.



ANNEX VI
BA.NGLADESH
ESTIMATED COMK_T1ENTS BY SOURCE
OF NON-FOOD AID 1973/74
(US$ million)
Commodity/
Project      Program      Total
Australia                              2             4         6
Belgiun                                -             1         1
Canada                                 5            30        35
Denmark                                5             2         7
France                                 3             2         5
Germany                               12            20        32
Japan                                  -            34        34
Netherlands                            2             4         6
New Zealand                            -             1         1
Norway                                 -             3         3
Sweden                                 4            14        18
U.K.                                   6            12        18
U.S.                                  40            20        60
EEC                                    -            10        10
ADB                                   30             -        30
UNDP                                   4             -         4
IDA                                   30            50        80
India                                 15            25        40
Socialist Countries                   10            10        20
Miscellaneous                          2             2         4
Sub-total                    170            244       424
Add suppliers' credits             32            -         32
To-al                         202           244       456
Source: Planning Commission, aid agencies and mission estimates.
IDA figure is indicative and may be less.



ANNEX VII
Table 1
BANGLAJESH
PRODUCTION TREND OF SELECTED PUBLIC SECTOR UNITS
CampArison -with 1969/70
(Pe-rcentage)
1973/74 Govern-     1972/73  1973/74 Govern-
Industry                              Unit             1969/70     1972/73       ment Target     -           ment Target
Jute                                1000 tons            587         446           568              76          97
Textile - Yarn                      million lbs.         106          81           100               77         94
- Cloth                     million yds.          59          57            80              97         136
Steel - Ingot!/                     1000 tons             54          68            80              126         148
- M.S. Rods and Sections2/    1000 tons             40          18            40              46         100
Engineering - Commercial Vehicles   number               n.a.       1200          3500              n.a.        n.a.
- Shipbuilding          million taka          20          27            81             134         405
- Diesel Eigines        number              1279        1353          1750              106        137
Paper - Writing and Printing
Paper                     1000 tons             31          21            39 3/            68        127
- Newsprint                 1000 tons             44          30            43               68          97
Fertilizer47                        1000 tons             96         277           415              289         433
Pharmaceuticals - Tablets           million nos.         326          81           200               25          61
- Injectables       million nos.           5           1             3               20         66
Food - Edible Oil                   1000 tons            U1           14            30              129         278
- Fish Processing              1000 lbs.           2502        1181          1620               47         65
- Tobacco                      million sticks      1241        1145          3052               92         246
- Flour and Confectionary      1000 tons             13          14            15              104         113
- Beverages                    1000 bottles         622         396           540               64          87
Sugar                               1000 tons             93          20           100               21         108
Cement                              1000 tons             53          29           168 i/            55         226
17 The Chittagong Steel Mill.
Re- Rolling Mills.
3/  This includes a new mill .4Ach is expected to start production in 1973/74.
*/ Nurmber of units are:  1 iunit for 1969/70, 2 for 1972/73 and 3 for 1973/74e
;'/ This includes a new plTuit tThich is eaxpected to start production in 1973/74.
Soucrce:  Plrmnning Comnissin, Public. Sector Corporations and mission estimates.



ANNEX VII
Table 2
BANGLADESH
CAPACITY UTILIZATION RATIO (%)    SELECTED
INDUSTRIES
Actual      Actual       Actual       Target
Industry                            1969/70     1971/72     1972/73      1973/74
Jute=/                                 69          35          48          57
Textile
Yarn_/                               79          31          60          66
Cloth 1/                             48          19          47          66
Steel
Ingot2/                              46          34          57          67
M.S. Rod and Sections                30          n.a.        15          30
Engineering
Commercial Vehicle                  n.a.         10          41         1173/
Diesel Engines                       43          37          46           58
Paper
Writing and Printing Paper          103          n.a.        69           80
Newsprint                            85          n.a.        58           83
Fertilizer                             96          n.a.        68          69
Pharmaceuticals
Tablets                              10          n.a.         3            6
Injectables                         116          n.a.        23           75
Food
Edible Oil                           31          12          40           85
Fish Processing                      37          n.a.        17           24
Tobacco                              22          n.a.        21           55
Flour and Confectionery              51          n.a.        53           58
Beverages                            68          n.a.        40           55
Sugar                                  55          :L14        11          60
Cement                                 35          n.a.        19          37
1   Based oII capacities calculated from numbers of installed spindles or looms
ulLtiplied by attainable unit production.
',' Although original designed capacity of the Chittagong Steel Hill is 250,000 tons
per year, the ratios here are based oni esLimated physical capacity of 120,000 tons.
3/ Capacity is on a one shift basis.
Source: Planning Commission, Public Sector Corporations and mission estimates



ANNEX VIII
BANGIADESH
C AND F COMMODITY PRICES
(US $)
1973 as a Percentage
Unit      1972      1973            of 1972
Raw Cotton                 Bale       170       220               129
Big Iron                   Ton         75       140               187
Steel Scrap                Ton         70     120-130             179
Pulp                       Ton        180       300               167
Tallowi                    Ton        300       517               172
Cement                     Ton         21        35               167
Corrugated Iron Sheet      Ton     240-265      310               123
Source: TCB and Sector Corporations






ANNEX IX
BANGLADESH
THE IMPORTS CONTROL SYSTIT1
1.         The Government controls irmports of' raw materials and supplies
required by industrial users, including spare parts and replacement machinery.
The Ministry- of Commerce is responsible for these controls, while the coordinating
agency for the allocation of foreign exchange is the Ministry of Finance, and
the Planning Commission provides overall coordination and policy guidance.    Each
six months, an Import Policy Order is issued by the Ministry of Commerce, after
coordination among the ministries through a series of interministerial boards
and advisory councils, and after approval of the agreed proposals by the Cabinet.
The Policy Order sets out who may import what, and what funds ifill be used to
pay for it.
2.         After being notified that he has received an allocation for import,
the potential end-user must apply for his import license. In many cases,
further sub-allocations must be made, e.g. by the Chief Controller of Imports
and Exports (CCIE) for the private sector or Public Sector Corporations for
their subordinate units.   The basis for an allocation is normally the "entitlement'
of a particular unit -- an amount of imported requirement determined by the
unit's estimated needs for capacity operation on a one-shift basis. -With foreign
exchange shortages, the allocation is usuaLlly for only a small percentage of
the "entitlement"l.
3.         An importer must apply for a license through a bank; this may mean
passing the request from a branch office to an off'ice in Dacca which can approach
the CCIEo Import licenses are issued only by the Licensing Board of the CCIE,
which is an office of the Ministry of Commerce0   At this level, a request is
exalmined to be sure thet it is wviithin both the entitternents and the allocations
previously determined.
4.         Units of public sector corporations may apply for licenses only
through their parent corporations. The license issuing procedure is frequently
time consuming. 'When the license is passed back tc. the end-user, he must
then apply for a letter of credit, throuOh his bank.   If he is a public sector
unit, this must pass again through the parent corporation.
5.         A letter of credit, however, cEn be opened only through the
nationalized commercial bank ''designated' to handle all letters of credit for
that particular item.   There is a designated bank for every item0   If the
designated bank for the particular item to be imported is not the importer's
regular bank, he must have his application for a letter of credit approved by
the designated bank, probably after approval by his owt7n bank0 It must then
be approved also by the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank)0
6.         At any of these stages, the basic decision to import the item may
be called into question and reviewed, from the point of view of either continued
priority of the import or continued availability of foreign exchange funds to
finance it.



BANIGLhDESH                             ANNEX X
PROPOSED CATEGORIES liND CEILINGS-
IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
(US $ Million)
Total Annual
Import Recuirement    Proposed Ceiling
A. Agriculture.
1. Fertilizers and raw materials
for fertilizer manufacture.                          38-4               17.0
B.   Industry. Components, chemicals raw
materials, spare parts, balancing equipment
and packing materials for:
1.  Jute Industry.                                        12.8               10.0
Spare Parts and Chemicals.
2.  Textile Industry0                                    111.5               12.0
Raw Cotton and Synthetic Pibers.
Cotton Yarn and Synthetic Yarn.
Balancing Equipment, other materials
and spare parts.
3.  Paper and Board Industry.                             12.9                800
Pulp
Other Materials, spare parts.
4. Food and ;llied Products Industry.                      3.4                3.0
Materials and spare parts.
5. Chemical and 'harmaceutical Industry.                  4503               10.0
Materials for soap0
MaterialE for pharmaceuticalsO
Other materieIs and spare parts
(excluding materials for fertilizer)0
6.  Sugar Industry.                                        2.2                2.0
Balancing enuipment, spare parts
and materials.
7.  Steel and Foundry Industry.                           260                10.0
Steel scraps.
Pig :ron.
Billets.
8.  Commercial Vehicle Industry.                          22.7               20.0
CED Components for assembly.
9. Shipbuilding   Industry.                                3.7                1.0
10.  Small-Scale Industry.                                  2.0                1.0
BSIC
11.  Construction Industry.                                47.9               15.0
Cement0
Corrugated Iron Sheets.
TOThL                                                   329.3              109.0



ANNrEX XI
BANGLADESH             Page  1
INTENSIVE SURVEY OF TEXTILE AND JUTE
INDUSTRIES
0.1       As a part of appraisal of the Imports Program credit, the mission
which visited Bangladesh in September/October 1973 made an intensive survey
of the textile and jute industries in Bangladesh in order to better assess
the industrial situation through analysing problems in these sample industries
and evaluating government policies that affected them. These industries
were selected for this survey from the industries covered by the credit
because of their importance to the economy. The survey has revealed that
the industries have suffered from various problems, a major one being
shortages of imported inputs.
I.  The Textile Industry
1.1       The textile industry in Bangladesh consists of the mill sector
and the handloom sector. After independence the mills were nationalized and
placed under the jurisdiction of the Bangladesh Textile Industries Corporation.
The mill sector comprises some 60 mills which employ about 54,000 people,making
it the second largest modern sector industry after the jute industry.
A.  Cotton Textile Mills         49
1. In operation
- spinning mills         23
- spinning and weaving
mills                  22
2. Under Construction         4
B. Specialized Mills (synthetic 11
yarn production, towel
weaving, etc.)
1.  In operation               9
2.  Under construction         2
The handloom - or cottage industries - sector, comprises an estimated
250,000 handlooms and employs some 500,000 workers.   Although handloom weaving
is done on a small scale by traditional techniques, this sector is the major
producer of cloth in Bangladesh, accounting for over 80 percent of total
production.
1.2       Before independence all mills were privately owned except for
two mills th.t belonged to the East Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation.
With nationalization, the Government appointed general managers of the mills,
retaining former owners as managers except in all but 24 mills that were
owned by non-Bengalis and abandoned by them after the war. The Textile



ANNEX XI
Page 2
Industries Corporation guides and coordinates mills in various aspects
of marnagement.  It recomrmends investments in mills to the Government, has
recently taken over the import and distribution o-f raw cotton to the mnills,
and allocates foreign exchange to the mills for other imports.    It coordinates
production plans and the labor pol:cies of the mills.   It assists mills in
obtaining finance from banks, including working capital. In addition, mills
are subject to institutional controls in marketing. Mills can sell yarn only
to the Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation and to weavers' cooperatives,
and cloth only to the Col-sumers Sunpl--es Corporation.  Prices for their
p-roducts have to be appro-vc by the Government. However, the division of
responsibility between the Textile Industries Corporation and individual mills
is still fluid, and the optimum allocation of responsibility for the industry
-;s still an opern question.
1 3       Handloom weavers are left free except in the purchase of yarn.
Yarn shortages have been the key problem for the nandloom sector.   To cope
with the shortages, the Government has introduced control in the distribution
of yarn. Both local and imported yarn is channeled through the Bangladesh
;Small Industries Corporation or cooperatives. This control has brought
inconvenience to handloorn weavers because they have had to arrange credit and
transportation by themselves, whereas previously, traders provided these
services. Since most weavers have found these arrangements difficult to cope
with, mills have ended up keeping about two months production of yarn in stock
despite the general shortage of yarn0   Notwithstanding the control system,
yarn has been traded on the unofficial market at about twice or more the
official prices (Table 1). This in turn has affected cloth prices for consumers.
Production and per capita consumptiorn
;,while cottvon cloth production (Tables 2 and 3) in the mills in
1972/73 alnost returned to the pre-war 1969/70 level, yarn production reached
only 70 percent of that year's level. These production levels were 60 percent
of attainable production by existing facilities for yarn and 47 percent for
_loth. Since tne mills are the largest source of yarn supply for handloom
weavers, low yarn production curtailed their cloth production.   To fill the
shortfall of yarn supply, the Government authorized the Trading Corporation
of Bangladesh (TCB) to import yarn and cloth equivalent to 257 million yards
of cloth in 1972/73 in comparison with 179 million yards of cloth equivalent
purch-,ased in 1968/t69 from what was then West Pakistan, and abroad.  Based
on this data, total cloth availsbility in 1972/73 is estimated at about 500
mz..L'0 yards ofr cloth or u.7 yards per canita.  This is lower than an
estimiated o.9 yards Der capita for 1_69/70 and a Good deal lower than the
7! ycrds att<ained in  9i,/'&1.  As most of the foreign exchange allocation
.>r the imports of y;rn and cLoth was m.de in the Iatter half of 1972/73,
-ctual availability for the year was probably even lower.
~fficiency of the Industry
1.5       The products of cotton textile mills in Bangladesh appear uncompetitive
with imported gooas. Production costs per pound of yarn in 1972 were between
70 and 100 percent higher than the costs of imoorted



ANNEX XI
Page 3
yarn (Table 4). MYainly due to high yarn prices, ex-mill prices of locally
produced cloth were on an average double those of imported cloth. When in
1972 the Corporation proposed an investment program for the Five Year
Development Plan, it emphasized the foreign exchange saving that could be
achieved by expanded local production.         In the proposal, which assumes
an over-optimistic efficiency for new mills (see para. 1.16), the foreign
exchange costs of producing a pound of yarn were calculated at 49 to 53 cents,
as compared to a cost of imported yarn of 72 cents, per pound. However, the
foreign exchange production cost included only cotton and excluded imported
equipment and parts. As the estimated cost for these items roughly fills the
gap between the costs of imported cotton and yarn, there seems to be little
foreign exchange savings. For locally weaved cloth, the foreign exchange
cost per yard estimated at 26 cents, compares with the actual cost of imported
cloth at 20 to 30 cents. Thus, the industry is not yet competitive enough
to yield clear benefits, either to consumers in terms of market prices, or
in terms of saving foreign exchange for the country.
Problems of the Industry
1 .      The low levels of production are the results of several problems.
According to the Corporation 28 percent of available spindle hours were lost
for spinning in 1972/73, to which electric power shortages are estimated to
have contributed 10 percent, labor troubles 3 percent, and other reasons
(mostly mechanical breakdowns and shortages of raw materials and spare parts)
15 percent.  For weaving, 40 percent of loom hours available were lost, to
which power shortages are estimated to have contributed 12 percent, labor
troubles 6 percent, and other reasons including shortages of yarn 22 percent.
In addition to these problems, poor and variable quality of cotton, scarcity
of managerial and technical staff, and poor production control have affected
the production level.
1.7      The problem of electric power has stemmed mainly from reasons external
to the industry. Power supply has been frequently interrupted and voltage has
fluctuated because mechanical troubles have occurred, and the low-capacity
transmission network has become a bottleneck.
1 .8     Labor troubles are widely spread over all industries and their
complete solution requires government policy initiatives. Labor problems have
both contributed to and been exacerbated by high levels of inflation. The
troubles have not only stopped production by strikes and gheraos, but
productivity has also been reduced by go-slows and absenteism. This problem
has arisen partly because workers at one mill demand benefits equal to those
at all other mills, and managers have had to wait for long periods of time for
instructions from the Government in negotiating with workers. To improve
the situation, the Corporation has studied wage practices and is planning to
introduce a uniform wage structure. It is also considering creating an incentive
scheme for greater production.



ANTNEX XI
1.9        The industry is responsible for solving problems arising from
mechanical troubles and spares shortages except insofar as imports are
controlled by the Government.   Of the 45 cotton textile mills, 19 were built
before the mid-1950s, including seven as early as the 1930s.    The capacity
of these old mills is 322,900 spindles and 3,300 looms, accounting for 39
percent of spindles and 47 percent of looms currently installed. According
to the Corporation, 75,000 spindles (9 percent of the total installed) and
1 .00C0 l3ooms ( iL percent o-f thie total installed) are too old to be used.
The capacitv ta-x scheme, vhicll cperated oefore independence and under which
tax w'-s levied on operaboe production capacity, worked to the detriment of
the mzchines, particularly looms, because weavers kept the number of looms
to a mi-ninwun or even less by dismantling many looms to avoid taxation. Poor
maintenance has added to the problem. Because most mills did not have a
scheduled maintenance program, they have repaired machinery only when break-
downs occurred. Moreover, the uncertainty prevailing in the two years before
independen,e led managers to avoid expenditure for maintenance.   Thus,
the situation after the was was particularly bad.   As late as March 1973 about
2C percent of installed spindles and 40 percent of looms were lying idle
due to lack of spare parts. At that time, scarcity of consumable parts was so
severe that five or six year old parts were often used even though they were
themselves worn out.
1o10       In 1972/73, the Government allocated about US$2 million, including
US$1.5 million out of the IDA credit, for the import of parts. However, this
amount was not enough to improve substantially the condition of most of the
machinery. Mills used this allocation mainly for importing consumable parts,
leaving little for machine repair. Accordingly, 100,000 spindles and 2,000
looms are still estimated to be out of operation due to lack of spare parts,
and mary working machines are not in desirable operating condition.     Old
and poorly maintained machinery not only limits the available production
capacity but also affects productivity and product quality. Iumprovement of
existing equipment should receive high priority.
1.11       Raw cotton is an important factor in yarn production accounting
for about 60 percent of total costs.   The sharp increase in international
cotton prices, together with the devaluation of the Taka, significantly
raised the costs of yarn production, and consequently of cloth production.
However, the cost increases by themselves did not directly affect the
industry because the Government approved increased sales prices of yarn and
cloth.   There were other problems;   prior to independence, the industry
procured raw cotton from West Pakistan, but since the war it has to import
from various countries:  USA, Brazil, India, USSR, Iran, Australia, Sudan,
Uganda, Egypt, and Greece. Miills took time and experienced problems in
adjusting to the use of new and various kinds of cotton. A major problem
concerning raw cotton resulted from the inferior quality cotton which Bangladesh
was able to purchase. Cotton imported with severely limited foreign exchange,
or with foreign assistance, often was of inadequate type.   The fiber was too
short     for exfiple, cotton imported from USiA and India, major suppliers,
had fiber of 5/6" to 5/16" length which is technically not suitable to spin
into yarn popular in Bangladesh with 32, 40 or higher counts.   The fiber was
inferior in quality; it had many slubs ana neps ana cointained a lot of foreign



ANNEX XI
Page5
it had many slubs and neps and contained a lot of foreign matter. As a
result of these defects in cotton, productivity has been low and product
quality has also become inferior. As for productivity, yarn breakage
in the spinning process took place so often that more than one worker per
spinning frame is required, wnich is too high for normal production
conditions in Bangladesh.   As for product quality, yarn was weak and
uneven in size. The inferior quality yarn which resulted then affected
productivity and product quality of the weaving process. Although these
problems can be mitigated by better process control, only the import of
better cotton can really solve the problem.   This may not be easy in times
of short supply.
1.12        Given the difficulties in procuring raw cotton, the industry
is planning to use more synthetic fibers where possible. Synthetic fiber
is more economical than cotton. Polynosic fiber can be imported at 8 percent
lower cost than cotton, and viscose fiber 19 percent lower. The wastage
rate of these fibers (10 - 18 percent) is less than that of cotton (20 - 36
percent). Consequently, according to estimates made by the Corporation,
production cost of yarn blended with 60 percent cotton and 40 percent
polynosic fiber is about 95 percent of that of 100 percent cotton yarn, and
that of yarn blended with 60 percent cotton and 40 percent viscose fiber is
89 to 93 percent of that of 100 percent cotton. If the ratio of cotton is
reduced from 60 to 40 percent, these production costs decrease a few more
percentage points. Technically, although these synthetic fibers reduce
strength when they are moistened, there is no problem if they are blended.
Consumers have accepted synthetic fiber blended cloth favorably, as well as
cloth made of 100 percent synthetic yarns. Because experiments of using
synthetic fibers in some mills have been successful, the Corporation is
planning to use these fibers on a large scale. Although old equipment cannot
technically use synthetic fibers, the Corporation estimates 30 percent of
operative spinning capacity can use them. Fewer than ten mills have air-
conditioning facilities and productivity in other mills is slightly, but not
crucially, affected when they use synthetic fiber. Airconditioning is also
desirable for cotton yarn production so, investment in it should be economic.
1,13        Scarcity of managerial and technical staff has hurt the industry.
Before independence, non-Bengalis held a significant portion of managerial
and technical posts both in non-Bengali owned mills and in locally owned
mills. Although these posts have been filled by Bengali mill workers, it
may take some time for them to adjust to their responsibilities. Moreover,
according to the Corporation, at least 20 percent of the posts are still
vacant or temporarily manned by unqualified persons. Existing training
schemes are not adequate to meet the industry's requirements fully, even
under normal circumstances. Two training institutes produce only 50 graduates
anually and the training is inadequate; there is no program for training
tecnnical staff.   A normal worker may be assigned, for instance,
to machine maintenance master only to reward his good performance as
weaver, and not have any mechanical engineering background.   In spite
of this scarcity, the Five Year Plan includes investment in additional
400,000 spindles and 4,000 looms. The total personnel requirement for the
planned new mills may amount to 300 workers.   The Plan lacks a specific



ANNEX XI
Page 6
progrmn to train these personnel. The Government should train more managerial
and technical staff before launching on expansion of production capacity.
71.14       Proper production control is almost absent in Bangladesh, in spite
of its importance for productivity and quality. Machinery should be operated
in conditions (i.e. tension given to fiber) suitable to each kind of raw
material used.  Marn mills lack air conditioning and clean      facilities,
stop motion, knotter and other equipment and tools that are necessary to
secure productivity and quality.  Machines are not well maintained.   This problem
carnnot be solved by supuly of spare parts and equipment alon : a maintenance
pro-ram should be introduced and training shoulcd be provided for maintenance
staff.  Quality control is necessary not only to maintain the merchandise
value but also to attain high productivity. However, there are no guidelines
in Bangladesh. In addition to investing in a minimum of equipment and tools
and improving technical competency of staff, formulating guidelines in
machine maintenance and quality control is imperative. Incentives should be
offered to mills and to workers for greater production and better quality.
Strategies for Development
1.15        The Government envisages total investment of US$143.1 million
equivalent in the industry over 1973-78, of which $73.2 million is in foreign
exchange. There are two problems in this plan. The first question is whether
the many problems in the industry stated earlier can be attacked in the plan
period. Tne plan includes $13.1 million for balancing, modernization and
replacement of existing equipment, and $1.3 million for research and development,
rhich may include training of staff and formulating quality standards.    However,
*no concrete program has yet been formulated to utilize these funds effectively
in order to solve these problems. This may be an area where technical assistance
needs could become crucial.
1.1-i       Second, there is a problem of policy: whether expanding local
cloth demand should be met by imported cloth or by cloth produced locally
from imported cotton and synthetic fiber. Investments in new mills, w-hich
constitute $1285. million or 90 percent of the total planned investment in the
industry, are aimed at; expanding local manufacturing capacity including increases
in the n-umber of spindles by i4O0,000 from the existing 836,000 and the number
of looms by L,000 from 7,000 and establishing twio specialized mills. The Govern-
ment plans, by these investments, to meet the target per capita consumption of
8.8 yards for 85.4 million population in 1977/78 exclusively from local production
of yarn and cloth. Concerning this decision of total local production, the
Corpo ralion, in its proposal for the five year plan, carried out in 1972 a
:omparat:ve cost aralysis of importing cloth, processing imported yarn, and
processing imported cotton. Hlaowever, this analysis is;   faulty in some
-ssuwmpions and argument. ['ox example, one of -che major assumptions is that
newly established mills will be efficient with only 5 perce-t+ idle capacity
and their per pound production cost (other than raw cotton cost) will be only
55 percent of actual costs in 1973. This may not be realistic because many
problems stated earlier are not likely to be solved to this extent. Because
Local production is not now competitive with imports anra thus does not necessarily
save foriegn exchange problems, improvemeint of productivity by solving these
problems should receive the first priority.   Only after improving the use of
existing capacity should major new investments be made.



ANNEX XI
Page  7
1,17        The t.ssociation has suggested to the Government that it adopt three
groups of programs to attack current problems. The first group would be comprised
of programs to solve external problems of the industry, the powier problem and
labor troubles. Here, the main responsibility rests with the Government. The
second group would comprise programs concerning technical ability of industry
in procuring raw cotton, controlling production lines and production quality,
and maintaining machinery and equipment. The Corporation, in collaboration
..ith mills, should establish a training scheme for managerial and technical
staff, establish standards for production control, quality control and
maintenance of machinery and equipment, streamline responsibilities of the
Corporation and individual mills, and create incentive schemes. In carrying
out this task, the Corporation may require assistance of foreign experts. The
third group would be comprised of programs to improve production facilities.
Following a survey on present condition of existing facilities, the Corporation
should draw up a plan for replacement, modernization, and balancing of them.
This task mLay require technical assistance of foreign experts and foreign
firnancial assistance for importing necessary machinery, equipment and spares.
1.18        IDA may be able to assist the industry through such programs.   It
cculd provide services of foreign experts through the Technical Assistance
Credit and foreign exchange financing through program credits.    All this
assistance can benefit the economy a good deal by rehabilitating the textile
industry which is one of the most important industries in Bangladesh writh
respect to potential foreign exchange savings, employment, and supply of
essential consumer goods. The Corporation is one of the most competent
among sector corporations and appears to be capable of handling the programs
and the recessary foreign assistance.
II. The Jute Industry
2.1         In Bangladesh jute manufacturing is the largest industry, with
161,000 workers, and the main foreign exchange earner, with about US$185 million
export in. 1972/73 (50 percent of total export.). The industry converts about half
the locally grown jute into hessian,sacking and carpet backing. The other half
is exported as jute Der se. There are 76 jute mills in Bangladesh, of which
w4 were previously owned by non-Bengalis.   After the war, all the 76 mills were
nationalized, and put under the management of the Bangladesh Jute Mills
Corporation.  Public sector management was not new to the industry, because
eight mills were totally owned and managed by the former East Pa.kistan
Industrial Development Corporation, and 22 mills were joint ventures of the
Corporation with private industrialists.
The Bank Survey
2.2         The World Bank made a survey (November 1972 to January 1973) con-
cerning agricultural and industrial aspects of the jute trade in the world,1
devoting a. substantial portion to the Bangladesh jute industry. The report_/
of the survey revealed three problem areas of this industry. First, since
the export bonus system that benefitted the industry before the war was
abolished, and the currency was devalued, the effective exchange rate for the
industry has become unfavorable to it, and the industry has suffered losses.
Second, departure of experienced non-Bengali managers and engineers, labor
I/ The World Jute Economy (11ha-RD), July 12, 1973



ANNEX XI
Page o
trcu:: es, power shortages, and scarcity of spare parts have constrained
p-roduction. Third, because the industry lacks close contacts with world
markets, and therefore market intelligence, the industry has not been able
to keep up w.ith world market trends. The report recommended: that the
Government reassess its foreign exchange policy insofar as it adversely
affects the industry; that the Government and/or the Corporation should
assist a-nd coordinate mill operaticns, establish a uniform labor code, and
train managers;  and, that the Corporation should allow competent mills to
nego.tiate their ovm export contracts, and establish a central marketing
organization for weak nills.
2.3         The problems revealed by the report still remain, and no
significant steps have yet been taken to solve them.  The Five-Year Development
Plan (1973-1978), which the Cabinet approved in. November 1973, includes a list of
programi;s. It sets production target for jute producers in 1977/78 at 766,000
-tons, about 30 percent larger than the output of 587,500 tons in 1969/70, It
plans to develop markets by reducing cost of raw. jute, substantially increasing
industrial efficiency, and promoting exports more vigorously.  The plan also
includes investment of about $17.8 million for 1436 looms, only 6 percent of
the number of presently installed looms.  A higher amount, US$20 million, is
allocated for balancing, modernization and replacement of existing equipment.
To solve thle management problem, it plans to establish a jute industries
development center.  It also intends to expand research and development programs.
Production and Export
2.4         11,Reflecting the unsatisfactory industrial situation, with many
unsolved problems continuing, production and export of the industry have returned
to only about 80 percent of the pre-war 1969/70 levels (tables 5 and 6). only
with respect to carpet backing, which accounts for a relatively small tonnage,
have production and export surpassed the 1969/70 levels in 1972/73. This
reflects the strong pull of market demand, which has been much stronger for
carpet backing than for hessian and sacking. Overall, the demand for jute
products has been practically stagnant, and production efficiency or price
competitiveness greatly affects export performance of both Bangladesh and
India. Inc:.ease in export sa-les by one essentially means a change in its
share in the stagnant market at the expense of the other. Bangladesh had been
able to expand its share due to its relatively favorable competitive position
before the war;  it has not been successful since then due to the unfavorable
foreign exchange rate for this industry since 1971.
Financial Problems
2.5         Although the report concluded that the industry must reduce its
export prices in order to secure markets which have been quickly invaded
by synthetic substitutes, the actual prices increased as shown in table 7. In
1972/73, the prices have been determined mostly by Indian exports which were
dominant in world markets.  Bangladesh prices followed the Indian, but with
large losses. The mills recorded in 1971/72 a. loss Of US$11.4 million equivalent
on US$91.0 -worth of sales. In 1972/73, the loss increased to US$28.6 million.



ANNEX XI
Page 9
These losses have caused two problems. First, because all mills are
financially autonomous, even though they are owned by the Government, their
losses have not only increased the interest burden for bank borrowing, they
have also endangered the financial position of some mills. The financial
position at the end of the fiscal year 1971/72, as shown in a consolidated
balance sheet of all mills, was not sound, with a 70:30 debt-equity ratio,
and it has further deteriorated in 1972/73. Second, under a loss-dominant
situation, financial results fail to be an effective yardstick of efficient
mill management, and only production levels receive management's attention.
In the Bangladesh situation, production cost is not likely to be reduced
sw'T:iciently to generate profit. Even before the war, production cost was
higher than FOB price;  but the latter was supplemented by export bonuses to
generate profit (table 7), Consequently, as the Bank report recommends, serious
thought should be given to foreign exchange policy insofar as it affects this
industry.
Production Problems
2.6        Productivity has dropped significantly since the war.   Comparison
of production costs (table 7) is not easy because devaluation of the taka in
January 1972 increased prices of stores which are imported, and of jute, which
can be exported as such at higher prices; and it has also affected other costs
indirectly. However, it may be noted that the rates of increase for wages and
salaries, for other conversion costs (except for sacking), and for total production
costs are much higher than the devaluation rate of 58.4 percent. The lower
productivity is more clearly presented in table 8. As showNn in the table, 18
percent of installed looms still remained idle in July/August 1973 as compared
to 11 percent in 1969/70. Although productivity per loom was higher by 30
percent in 1973 as compared to 1969/70 for carpet backing, the demand for which
increased more quickly than the number of looms, that for hessian and sacking
w.Tas about 20 percent lower.  Productivity per worker was wJorse;  it was 23 percent
lower for all products together because of a sharp increase in the number of
workers per loom.
2.7        The jute industry has faced similar production problems as the
textile industry in respect of electric power, machinery and spare parts, raw
materials, labor, managerial and technical staff, and production control. Some
of these problems have been intensified due to special circumstances in the jute
industry. About 30 percent of jute goods production capacity is located in
Knulna area, where one of the large povier stations was shut down for over a
month in the first half of 1973 due to mechanical trouble. This, combined with
othler minor but frequent electricity troubles, caused a time loss equivalent
to 35,200 tons production, which is calculated at 17 percent of the production
actually achieved. Labor management has been particularly bad. According to
the Government, there are at least 8,000 excess laborers, equal to 5 percent
of total employment in the industry, because of uncontrolled hiring of wJorkers.
Poor labor management, together with general labor uncertainties in Bangladesh,
caused a number of strikes, gheraos, lock-outs and go-slows, which resulted
in a loss of production of at least 9,000 tons in the first half of 1973. As
financial difficulties have constrained their raw jute procurement, mills have
tended to purchase low quality jute and also to keep less than normal amounts
of stock. These difficulties have also affected the availability of spare parts.



ANITEX XI
Page 10
kLthouh _in;.cially capable nills have kept better stocks, many mills have
seen aable only to meet mirniunm current requirements, and have suffered
excessive work stoppages.
2.8        To solve these and other production problems, the Corporation is
planning to strengthen its control and coordination of mills.   To secure closer
contact with mills which are :Located in or around Dacca, Chittagong and Khulna,
it has created regional offices in each area. However, as each of these
offices is staffed by only one senior officer and very limited supporting
sta`ff, it functions as a reere liaison of'fice.  If the rationalized industry
schemo is to work successfully, the Corporatiorl will have to intensify its
efforts to assist rmills.
2.9        Because jute goods are mainly exported, tne industry has to meet
cameetitive requirements.   First, its products should have satisfactory
,uclity; and increasing competition from synthetic substitutes makes this all
the more important.  Before the war, only 12 mills had equipment and systems
:for quality control.  Since then, the Corporation has introduced quality
control urograins in 65 mills, but the results are not yet satisfactory. The
Corporation is now planning to invest about US$ 1 million eauivalent for
testing equipment, so that all mills can test their products on their own
premises.  It is planning also to establish a grading scheme for mills and
their products, which can be used for export business.   Second, in order to
develop new markets which can supplement stagnant markets for hessian and
sackzig, research and development efforts should be intensified.   There are
plans for creating research centers, but no concrete step has been taken yet.
Mkarketing Problems
2.10       Export marketing has also been a weak area for the industry.    Even
before the war, as it relied on buyers for its export sales, it lacked close
contact with consumer countries.   Because of the lack of world market information
to the industry, Bangladesh has fallen behind in meeting increasing demand for
carpet backing. During the war and uncertainties preceding it, foreign buyers
lost confidence in Bangladesh as a reliable source of supply. Presently, the
Corporation is trying to establish a strong marketing system, but it has not
decided yet whether the exporting should be completely done by mills or be
centralized.  While allowing mills to export by themselves, if they have
established channels, it centrally handles other exports at present. To obtain
market information, it is planning to set up offices abroad, but it has not
obtained government approval yet. The Corporation should be allowed to expedite
its efforts to establish a strong marketing system.
2.11       Transportation was a bottleneck in exoort after the war and it still
remains one.  Until recently, transportation capacity of jute goods from mills
to ports for export was severely restricted due to war damage to water
transport, road transport and railway systems. Although this problem has been
more or less solved by noTw, shortages of vessel space to foreign markets still
remain.  i\t tne time of wvar, ocean lines stopped sending vessels to Bangladesh,
acd some line-s nve not returned to the pre-Tewar service level yet.  Mainly due
to this roasoAn, an avernge stock of 105,000 tons was kept in 1972/73 as against
0 3.000 tons in lc,9/70.



A201EX XI
Page 1 1
Conclusions
2.12        The problems that the Bank survey identified still persist, and
some are -orse.  Realizing these problems, the Government envisages solutions;
however, few concrete steps have been taken. The Government and the
Corpoiation should intensify their efforts.  Insofar as foreign assistance is
concerned, the industry should receive high priority in the import of spare
parts and balancing and modernizing equipment. In the short run, the
efficiency of the industry could be improved by solving the problems of
electric power, machinery and spare parts, raw materials, labor, managerial
and technical staff, and production control. In the long run, however, if
industrial protitability cannot be improved significantly, the foreign exchange
policy for tnis industry may need re-examination.



ANNEX XI
Page 12
Table 1
The Textile Industry
Comparison of Cloth Prices: 1972
(US Cents per yard)
A.                       B.
Average Ex-Mill Price      Import Price (C&F)        A/B
(percent)
Markin                      47                        21                 224
Loeng-Cloth                 53                        22                 240
Frolin                      64                        38                 168
60                       36                  167
Soree                       42                        20                 210
Source:   The Textile Industries Corporation.
Table 2
The Textile Industry
Installed and Wiorking Production Facilities in the Cotton Mills
Number of Spindles ('000)                 Number of Looms
Installed/                                 Installed/
Installed  'dorking  Working               Installed  Vlorking  Working
Tpercent-nt)
1065/66       654      573      87.6                  6,ooo      3,000     50.0
1'.WC9/70     750      660      88,0                  7,000      3,000     42.9
1 ,O/71       830      650      77.8                 7,000      4,000      57.1
1'7,1'/72     836      650)     77.8                  7,000      3,000     42.9
1972/73       830      625      74-9                  7,000      3,500     50.0
Soarce:  The Textile Industries Corporation



ANNEX XI
Page 13
Table 3
The Textile Industry
Production in the Cotton Mills
Yarn Production (million lbs)      Cloth Production (million yds)
Installed           Actual/         Installed            Actual/
Capacity   Actual   Capacity        Capacity    Actual   Capacity
Tp-erce~nt)                          (percent)
1965/66        98.1      73.0       75.7           108.0      40.0      37.0
1969/70       112.5     105.6       95.0           121.0      59.2      48.8
1970/71       125014     64.6       58.9           121.2      40.9      33.7
1971/72       125.)4     40.6       37.0           121.2      23.1      19.1
1972/73       125.4      81.0       60.2           121.2      57.0      47.1
Source: The Textile Industries Corporation
Table 4
The Textile Industry
Comparison of Local Production Cost
and Irnported Cost of Yarn : 1972
(US Cents per pound)
Local Production Cost               Approved   Unofficial   Imported
Raw 1o-bton  Duies and-- ZEHer            Selling    Market       Yarn Cost
Count     (C & F)       charges     Costs  Total    Price      Price   _     (C & F)
20's         50            28        32     105      105        185         53 - 65
3 ' t s    52           28         50     130      128        240         50 - 91
's( '3    55           28         65     148      150        291         53 - 87
'0 's       o67           30        101     198      202        662        106 -123
Source: The Textile Industries Corporation



AnTEX XI
Page 1)4
Table 5
The Jute Industry
Production o-f' Jute Goods
(1,000 tons)
Carpet                     Comparison of total to
Hessian  Sacking  Backing  Others   Total          1969/70
(percent)
1i909/70     234.6  297.4     33.0     22.5    587.5        100.0
1 70/71      221.2  190.8     40.5     27.8   470.3          8o.1
1971/72      118.2  139.1     32.7     10.2    300.2         51.1
1972/73      155.1  210.4     53.8     27.0   446.3          76.0
Scurce: Bangladesh Jute Mills Association
Table 6
The Jute Industry
Export of Jute Goods
(1,000 tons)
Carpet                     Comparison of total to
Hessian  Sacking Backing   Others   Total          1969/70
(percent)
1 909/70     204.2  232.0     34.0     28.0    498.2         100.0
1T70/71      172,6  146.1       -- 63.2 --     381.9          76.7
i)71,'72     7'.7   100.5     32.7    11.1    221.0           44.4
1 9;72/73    1 63.1  169.8    50.0     28.7   411.6           82.6
a cuaze: Bangladesh Jute Mills Association



ANNEX XI
Table 7                           Page 15
The Jute jnE
Comparison of Production Costs and Prices
Taka per ton 1/
Hessian                       Sacking                 Carpet Backing
972/73                      1972/73                     T~ 972/73
over                         over                      over
1969/70  1972/73   1969/70   1969/70  1972/73   1969/70  1969/70  1972/73 1969/70
(percent)                    (percent)                 (percent:
Raw Material                               165       802     1530      191       1321    2179      165
Jute                                             751     1450                1234    2016
Others                                           51        80                  87     163
Wages and Salaries                         213       442      828       187       711    1391      196
Other Conversions Cost                      181      476      622      131        971    1746      180
Power                                             60       49                 129     260
Stores                                            64      100                 199     223
Others                                           352      473                 643    1263
Total Cost                                 TT       172T0    2980       _73      3003   5316       177
Export Price (FOB)              3939        207     1038     2622       253      2741    4700      171
(in US$)          ($400)   ($522)     (131)    ($218)   ($347)    (160)     ($576)  ($623)    (109)
Export Bonus            972      _                   541     -                   1355     -
Profit (loss)           330     (705)               (141)    (358)               1093    (616)
1/ Taka was devalued in January, 1972: per dollar rate of taka was T.h.76 before and is
floating around T. 7.5. In order to show actual changes in local production costs, the
table is presented in Taka.
Source:  Data for 1969/70 are from a sample survey of 12 mills undertaken by Qazi Kholiquzzamon
Ahmad of the Bangladesh Institute of Development Economics.    Data for 1972/73 are
averages of 67 mills and obtained from the Corporation.



AhMEX XI
Page 16
Table 8
The Jute IndusL
Comparison of .roducti4vit
Carpet
Hessian      Sackin       Backing       Total
Worked looms as percentage ot
installed looms
- 1969/70                             90.7         88.3          78.0        89.3
- June/August, 1973                   85.5         78.9          73.8        82.3
(change in percentage)                 (-5.7)     (-10.6)        (-5.4)      (-7.8)
Monthly output er worked
loom
- 1969/70                              1.59 -cons  )4.23 tons     2.80 tons   2.40 tons
- June/August, 1973                    1.2y         3.49          3.6h        2.28
(change-in percentage)              (_18.9)       (-17.5)       (+30.0)      (-5.0)
Monthly output        ker
- 1969/70                                                                    370 kg
- June/-ugust, 1973                    -           -             _           208 kg
(change-in percentage)                                                        - _  -   (-23.<)
;Iorker per f.orked loom
- 1969/70                              _           _                         5.0 worker
- June/August, 1973                    -           -             -           8.0 worker
(change-in percentage)                 -            _             _          (+60.o)
Source: Data for 10969/70 are from a survey by <azi Kholiquzzernon Abnad, and those
for June/hugust, 1973 are from the Corporation.



