CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 458 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 7, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 458 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 7, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1974, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower desires to improve the efficiency in the
utilization of its existing agricultural and industrial productive capacity;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of imports required for the foregoing, and
(C) The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31. 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into
6.02(h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amourit of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) iin respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed under this Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods required
for the carrying out of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which are to be procured under any contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more shall be procured in acc :-dance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January I
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July I commencing
July 1, 1984, and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause the Project to be
carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         in order to speed up imports and the use of the proceeds of
the Credit, issue licenses for the import of goods eligible to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and proposed to be
so financed, in excess of the amount of the Credit;
(ii)        make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as
needed, such amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required
to import any goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and
(iii)       take all such action as shall appear necessary or convenient to
facilitate the importation of any goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit;
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be insured or shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
beneficiary of such insurance to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the use of the proceeds of the Credit and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be fl-rnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonabiy request
concerning the carrying out and administration of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them       of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿7
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become dLue
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following, additional event is specified, namely that the Association shall at
any time have determined, after reviewing in consultation with the Borrower the
progress being made by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, that the
purpose for which the Credit is extended is not likely to be achieved.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date
Section 8.01. The date of March 13, 1974, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.0 1. The Secretary of the Planning Commission of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.


﻿8
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives therento duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative
on behalf o.f the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Director, Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the categories of goods eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the maximum amount of the Credit which may
be withdrawn for the financing of any such category. Such maximum amounts
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Maximum Amount of the
Credit to be Withdrawn
(Expressed in
Category                                      Dollar Equivalent)
A. Agriculture:
1.   Fertilizers and raw                    17,000,000
materials for fertilizer
manufacture.
B.   Industru: Components, chemicals,
raw materials, spare parts,,
balancing equipment and packing
materials jbr
1.   Jute Industry.                         10,000,000
2.   Textile Industry.                      12,000,000
3.   Paper and Board Industry.               8,000,000
4.   Food and Allied Products                3,000,000
Industry.
5.   Chemical and Pharmaceutical            10,000,000
Industry.
6.   Sugar Industry.                         2,000,000
7.   Steel and Foundry Industry.            10,000,000
8.   Commercial Vehicle Industry.           20,000,000
9.   Small Scale Industry.                   1,000,000
10. Construction Industry.                  15,000,000
11. Shipbuilding Industry                    1,000,000


﻿10
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; and
(d)   any goods concerning which the Association shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement thereof is or has been inconsistent with the
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a program of the Borrower, to be carried out during
the period between February 1, 1974 and June 30, 1976, for the import of goods
into the territories of the Borrower for the purpose of improving the efficient
utilization of existing productive capacity in agriculture and industry (including
manufacturing and construction).


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
With respect to any contract for the procurement of goods referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement:
1.    (a)   bids shall be obtained from not less than three of the major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid is the lowest
evaluated bid;
provided, however, that whenever the Borrower and the Association are satisfied
that goods of a specific type, design or manufacture are required in the interest
of equipment standardization or of other valid considerations relating to the
efficient utilization of existing productive capacity, such goods may be procured
on a negotiated basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after execution of
the contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract:
(i) the details of the bids sought, (ii) the names of the firms invited to submit
bids, (iii) the summary of the bids submitted and, in the event the lowest bid
is not accepted, the analysis and evaluation of such bids and the reasons for the
award to the successful bidder, and (iv) two conformed copies of such contract.
3.    If the Association shall reasonably determine that the award of a contract
is not consistent with the procedures set forth in this Schedule, it shall promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


