Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  F
Report No. 2358-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
May 15, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                 Cr$ 22.58 (Selling Rate, March 1979)*
Cr$ I           =   US$0.0443
Cr$ 1 million   =   US$44,287
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km2)   =  100 ha = 247.1 acres = 0.386 square miles
I cubic meter (m2)          =  1.31 cubic yards = 264.2 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
1 ton                       =  1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
*Average Exchange Rates (Selling):
Sept.
1975    1976      1977     1978
US$ = Cr$                 8.128   10.786   14.138   18.750



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARC            =  Agricultural Research Center
BB            =  Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BNB           =  lanco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of Northeast of Brazil)
BNCC          =  Banco Nacienal de Credito Cooperativo
(National Cooperative Credit Bank)
CLC           =  Community Learning Center
CEASA         =   ompania Estadual de Abastecimento (State Supply Company)
CEPA-SE       =  Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Sergipe
(Sergipe Agricultural Planning Commission)
COB A         =  Comnania ATrasileira de Alimento (Brazilian Food Company)
DER-SE        =  Oepartamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Sergipe
(Sergipe Highways Department)
EMATER-SE     =  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Sergipe
(Sergipe Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Enterprise)
EMBRAPA       =  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise)
EMSETUR       =  Empresa Sergipana de Turismo (Sergipe Tourism Enterprise)
FSESP         =  Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Public Health Services)
FUNRURAL      =  Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)
IAA           =  Instituto do Acucar e do Alcool (Sugar and Alcohol Institute)
IBC           =  Instituto Brasileiro do Cafe (Brazilian Coffee Institute)
INAN          =  Instituto Nacional de Alimentacao e Nutricao
(National Food and Nutrition Institute)
INCRA         =  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITR           =  Inposto Territorial Rural (Rural Land Levy)
MEB            =  Movimento de Educacao de Base (Movement for Basic Education)
NCC            =  National Commodity Center
POLONORDESTE  =  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
SEC           =  Secretaria da Educacao e Cultura do Estado de Sergipe
(Education and Culture Secretariat of Sergipe)
SENAC         =  Servico Nacional de Aprendizado Comercial
(National Commercial Apprenticeship Service)
SES           =  Secretaria de Saude de Sergipe
(Secretariat of Health of Sergipe)
SUDENE        =  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
SUDAP         =  Superintendencia da Agricultura e da Producao
(Superintendency for Agriculture and Production)
UFS            =  Universidade Federal de Sergipe (Federal University of Sergipe)
This documennt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflial dutia. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........................                 1
A.  The Sector in the Economy ....          ................       1
B.  Government Agricultural Policies           .............       1
C.  Agriculture in Northeast Brazil ....         ..........        2
D.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ..                 3
II.   THE STATE OF SERGIPE AND THE PROJECT AREA    ........               3
A. The State .............-.-.-                        .           3
Location and Natural Features ....        ..........        3
Socioeconomic Conditions ....         ...............       4
Agricultural Production ....         ................       4
Development Strategy ...........    I   ...........         4
B.  The Project Area .....      ................                   5
Location and Natural Features ....        ..........        5
Socioeconomic Conditions ...................                6
Land Tenure ..................                              6
Agricultural Production ....................                7
Agricultural Services .... ..............                   8
Social Services ..... ................                      8
Physical Infrastructure ....................                9
III.   THE EXECUTING AGENCIES ...........................                  9
Institutions to be Engaged in the Project                     9
State Framework for Executing the POLONORDESTE
Program   ....................................              9
IV.   THE PROJECT ......................................                 10
A.  Origin ...................... .................               10
B.  Brief Description ..............    .. ............           10
C.  Detailed Features ............................                12
Agricultural Services ........................                12
Agricultural Extension .....................               12
Agricultural Experimentation ....        ...........       12
Land Surveying and Titling ....        .............       13
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in September 1978,
composed of Messrs. G. Ashkenazi, C. Vidalon, P. Ram, Y. Tencalla, P. Morris,
(Bank), and Messrs. E. Velez-Koppel, L. Herrmann, E. Ricci, and E. Calderon
(consultants).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Credit ....... ...............         .................            14
Colonization .................................                      15
Social Infrastructure ............        .. ..........             16
Education and Vocational Training .........          .           16
Health and Sanitation ...........        .. .........            18
Physical Infrastructure ...........        .. .........             19
Feeder and Access Roads ..........        .. ........            19
Marketing Facilities ............        .. .........            20
Project Management ..............        .. ...........             21
Activities Planned Parallel to the Project ...                      21
Cooperative Society Development              ............        21
Input Supply and Mechanization Services   ....                   22
Storage ....................................                     22
V.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......................                       23
Cost Estimates ................       ..     .............          23
Financing ...... ..............          ................           23
Procurement .................       ..    ...............          25
Disbursement .................       ..    ..............           25
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................                       25
Organization and Management ......... .........                     25
Operating Agreements and Procedures              ..........         27
Implementation Schedule ...........        .. .........             28
Project Evaluation ..............        .. ...........             28
Accounts and Auditing .....           ...................           29
VII.    PRODUCTION, DEMAND, PRICES, AND MARKETING ........                       29
Production ...... ..............          ...............          29
Demand, Prices and Markets  ..........        .........             30
Marketing ...... ............... ...............                    31
VIII.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...............................                       31
Illustrative Farm Types .............       .. ........            31
On-farm Operations ..............        .. ...........             32
Producer Income ...............       .. .............              33
IX.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS ....              .........         34
Economic Rate of Return ............        .. ........             34
Employment ...... ..............          ...............           36
Project Risks ................       .. ..............             36
Fiscal Impact ................       .. ..............              37
X.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                         38



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEX 1: Design Standards for Municipal Roads ....  ........    42
ANNEX 2: List of Collector Roads Planned Parallel
to  Project   ................. .. .................  42
ANNEX 3:  Annual Phasing of Project Costs ................ .  43
ANNEX 4:  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements   .......    44
ANNEX 5:  List of Executing Agencies .......... ............  45
ANNEX 6:  Organization Chart of Project Administration Unit   46
ANNEX 7:  Implementation Schedule ........... .. ............    47
ANNEX 8:  Financial Analysis of Illustrative Farm Models ..   48
Table 1: Present and Projected Input and Output
Coefficient Per Hectare ........... .   49
Table 2: Farm Type Two, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service
and Cash Flow Projections ..........   50
Table 3: Farm Type Six, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service and
Cash Flow Projections ..............   55
Table 4: Farm Type Eight, Cropping Pattern,
Financial Analysis, Debt Service
and Cash Flow Projections .... ......   60
ANNEX 9:  Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Analysis ....    65
ANNEX 10: Related Documents Available in Project File .......  66
MAPS: Project Area (IBRD 13975)
Soil Types, Potential Land Use and Rainfall (IBRD 13976)






NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Sector in the Economy
1.01      Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be an important
sector in the economy. The national agricultural work force numbers 12.8
million, or 39.5% of the economically active p2pulation, and 43.1 million ha
(out of a national territory of 8.5 nLlion km ) are in agricultural use.
About 56% of agricultural merchandise exports account for more than 50% of
the country's export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter of
coffee and orange juice, the largest producer of cane sugar, and the third
largest producer of soybeans. It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts,
cocoa, caster oil and sisal. In 1976, the value of Brazil's exported agri-
cultural products was the third highest in the world.
1.02      The most important products for the domestic market include cassava,
maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit,
dairy products, poultry, beef and pork; coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton,
and cocoa are also important for the domestic market. With the exception
of wheat, Brazil is largely self-sufficient in basic food production, although
some staples such as beans are imported seasonally. More than half of the
wheat consumed in Brazil is still imported.
1.03      From 1967 to 1974, the agricultural sector performed well in meeting
domestic demand for food and fiber as well as in supplying a rising volume
of export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
weather conditions in three of the seven years. Farm output increased 4.2%
over 1975/76, an increase due more to productivity gains with livestock
(12.2%) than with crops (0.4%, though 9% if coffee is excluded!) lntil
1977, the value of agricultural output increased steadily, more as a result
of an expansion of production area than of improved productivity. Despite
increased attention to productivity and increasing market integration, sub-
sistence and semi-commercial production and use of rudimentary technologies
continue to be widespread, particularly in the Northeast, North and Center-
West. Because of the large rural population (para 1.05), the agricultural
sector remains a substantial source of labor for the other sectors of the
economy.
B.   Government Agricultural Policies
1.04      The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at more efficient exploitation of the country's
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms.



-2-
This goal reflects the Government's intention to encourage production of
an increasing share of Brazil's growing domestic requirements for food
and fibers as well as to increase agricultural exports. In addition,
the Government has acknowledged the gravity of the country's income
distribution problems. Important measures to increase agricultural
output have included: (a) utilization of substantial public resources
to incorporate new areas into production; (b) significant expansion in
the supply of agricultural credit, most of it at subsidized rates;
(c) strengthening of research and extension services; and (d) special
regional programs, such as the Development Program for Integrated Areas
in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), that focus on poorer regions and smaller
scale farmers.
C. Agriculture in Northeast Brazil
1.05      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about 35
million, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas. The population is growing at
a net rate of 800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region has a semi-arid
climate with periodic serious droughts and extensive areas of poor soils. None-
theless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region, with 40% of the agri°
culturally employed population of Brazil usually accounting for 20% of Brazil's
agricultural production and a major share of the national production of cocoa,
cotton, manioc, beans and sugar. In 1977, about 30% of the area harvested in
Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout the region, most food and industrial
crops are produced by small farmers. Their technology is unsophisticated and
yields are poor. The difficulties facing them include lack of credit for
working capital or investment, limited agricultural extension services,
market isolation and weak linkages with the regional economy, insecurity of
land titles and, in some areas, a difficult physical environment. These
problems are compounded by a highly skewed pattern of land ownership. For
instance less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account for
40% of the area, whereas in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns
no land at all. Among northeastern states, the proportion of land holders
who own less than 10 ha ranges from 49% in Ceara to 87.6% in Maranhao.
1.06      Various Government programs have been directed at speeding economic
development in the Northeast.  The Government operates a special agency,
the Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE), and a special development
bank for the Northeast, Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB). Substantial
fiscal and monetary incentives have been made available over the past two decades
for both industry and agriculture. Programs to generate jobs in the industrial
sector have not however kept pace with population increases, and continuous
immigration from rural to urban areas has been coupled with considerable move-
ment to the more industrialized Center-South and Center-West of Brazil. Past
Government programs directed to the rural population of the Northeast have
concentrated on public works, with substantial efforts in drought-prone areas
to develop dams and ponds. The present administration has however also started
to strengthen the institutions offering the support services required to de-
velop more productive farming systems, particularly under the POLONORDESTE
program (in which the Bank is involved).



- 3 -
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 14 loans, totalling US$517.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$60.5 million, for livestock development; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; one for US$40
million for agricultural research; one, of US$100 million, to improve agri-
culture extension services; and seven, totalling US$161.7 million, for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, six of which are
located in the Northeast. Additional agricultural and rural development
projects and a rural education project, all in the Northeast, are under
consideration for possible future Bank financing. Completion reports for
three projects have been issued: the grain storage and the two livestock
development projects.
II. THE STATE OF SERGIPE AND THE PROJECT AREA
A. The State
Location and Natural Features
2.01      Sergipe, which is ihe smallest state in Northeast Brazil with a
land area of about 22,000 km  (only 1.4% of the Northeast), has five distinct
physiographical zones:
(a)  the Litoral Zone, is located in the humid coastal region
from the northeast to the south up to about 50 km inland.
Climatic conditions are favorable to agriculture, with an
annual average precipitation of over 1,100 mm and one to five
dry months. The main crops are coconuts, grown along the
coastal belt, and oranges grown further inland;
(b)  the Central Zone is located in the central part of the state,
northwest to the Litoral Zone. Climatic and soil conditions are
suitable for agriculture, with an annual average precipitation
which ranges from about 750 mm to 1,000 mm and three to five
dry months. The production of sugarcane and beef cattle are
the main economic activities of the Central Zone; however,
traditional subsistence crops, including beans, corn, manioc
are also important, as is cotton;
(c)  the Lower Sao Francisco Zone is located in the northeastern
portion of the state, along the Sao Francisco river. Annual
precipitation is somewhat over 950 mm, with three to six dry
months. The main agricultural activities are rice production
on the lower lands and some natural pasture on the more elevated
lands;



-4-
(d) the Sertao Zone of Sao Francisco is located in the northern
part of the state along the Sao Francisco river and is arid
to semi-arid. Annual average precipitation is below 500 mm
with between five to nine dry months. The main agricultural
activities are cotton production and cattle ranching; and
(e)  the Western Zone covers the western portion of the state.
Climate conditions are varied within the zone and the
annual average rainfall ranges from less than 700 mm to
over 1,000 mm, with three to six dry months. Extensive
cattle raising and cotton, maize, beans and tobacco
growing are the main commercial activities.
Socioeconomic Conditions
2.02      Precise data on socioeconomic conditions are unavailable in Sergipe,
but most of the rural population is below Brazil's rural relative poverty
cut-off point of about US$330 per capita 1/. The traditional industries
include textiles, sugar production and coconut processing and contribute about
10% of the state's internal income. The more recent petroleum and gas indus-
tries, which represent about 17% of Brazil's total production, are beginning
to have positive but still unmeasured impact on the local economy. However,
traditional agriculture is still the main economic activity in Sergipe.
Of the total population of 1.05 million, as estimated in 1978, about 49% live
in the rural areas, down from 62% in 1960.
Agricultural Production
2.03      Oranges, tobacco, coconuts and sugarcane represent the bulk of the
crops sold in out-of-state markets, while cotton, rice, beans, manioc and
corn are produced mainly for the local markets. Sergipe is the largest
producer of oranges among the Northeast states, whereas cattle raising is a
relatively minor economic activity. Although the area under cultivation
continues to increase (33% increase during 1960-70), the relative importance
of the agricultural sector is declining from 43% of the value of gross product
in 1960, to 38% in 1969 (only 20% in 1970 due to drought). Despite some
improvements in agricultural productivity, the overall agriculture performance
in Sergipe is characterized by low levels of technical skills; insufficient
application of farm inputs (such as fertilizers, pesticides and farm machinery
services); limited development of infrastructure or supporting services
(including marketing, storage capacity, farm credit and other facilities);
insufficient and sometimes primitive processing facilities; inequalities in
resource distribution; and a history of rural emigration.
Development Strategy
2.04      The current state administration has established a four-year plan
(1976-79) for social and economic development. In addition to general develop-
ment objectives, specific objectives have been set for each sector of the
1/   The poverty cut-off point chosen is equivalent to two Rio de Janeiro
minimum wages per family, i.e., US$1,650 per family, or US$330 per
capita.



-5-
economy. The main thrusts of the development plan rests on 14 individual
projects 1/, with 64% of the total four-year development budget devoted to
such projects. Although agriculture is playing a lesser role than before
in development, it is still important in overall growth, the chief new
directions being: (a) special emphasis on particular areas (as in the
POLONORDESTE Program), (b) setting up of improved physical and other service
infrastructure to serve the sector, (c) improved production methods for
existing crops and the introduction of new crops such as passion fruit and
coffee, and (d) expansion of existing successful crops such as oranges.
B. The Project Area
Location and Natural Features
2.05      The 6,024-km2 project area (about 27% of the state's total land area)
comprises 15 municipalities, of which 11 are located in the southern part of
the Litoral Zone and the other four in the southeastern part of the Western
Zone. Based on physical characteristics, land use and environmental conditions,
the project area is further subdivided into three distinct sub-areas: the
Litoral (coastal) zone, the Cerrado Central (central woodland) zone, and
Tabule ros e Vales (plateaus and valleys) zone. The Litoral covers an area of
585 km (9.7% of the project area), with more than 1,250 mm precipitation. Due
to relatively poor soils, the main agricultural activity is limited to coconut
production and the growing of subsistence crops and ex ensive beef cattle
raising. The Cerrado Central extends over some 821 km (13.6% of the project
area), with average annual precipitation of over 1,250 mm. The area is sparsely
populated which can probably be explained by the low fertility of the local soils.
However, some areas of fertile soil do exist and there coconuts, manioc, sub-
sistence crops and beef cattle are raised.2 The Tabuleiros e Vales is the major
project sub-area, with an area of 4,618 km (76.7% of the project area), a great
part of which is a plateau with altitudes varying between 100 and 200 m above
sea level. Average annual precipitation is around 1,000 mm, the heavier rain
falling in the east and less (750 mm) in the west. Agricultural development
during the last ten years has centered mainly on citrus, passion fruit, tobacco,
and subsistence crops. This sub-area contains a relatively high percentage of
1/   Individual projects in the four-year development plan, include:
eight in the chemical and petrochemical industries (potash, magnesium,
salt ammonia/urea, sodium, chlorine, chloride polyvinyl), and two agri-
cultural projects (Lower Sao Francisco Development Project and the
POLONORDESTE Program). The overall government budget is Cr$ 15.2
billion, of which Cr$ 9.8 billion has been allocated to these individual
projects.



-6-
fertile soils on which a wide range of crops may be developed. Due to this
fact and to other prevailing conditions (climate, population, infrastructure
etc), the sub-area has been selected as being a likely main focus for future
agricultural development. The following table presents some of the key
characteristics of the three project sub-areas:
Population
Subarea               j         Population (1976)         Density  2
km        Inhab.    % Rural         Inhab./km
Litoral                 585        5,716       55.5             9.8
Cerrado Central         821       19,384       59.1            23.6
Tabuleiros e Vales   4,618       203,603       67.2            44.1
Total Project Area   6,024       228,703       66.2            38.0
There are two principal towns (Lagarto and Estancia) in the project area
that serve as regional centers, but the real urban center is Aracaju, the
state capital, which is located about 10 km from the northern project boundary.
Socioeconomic Conditions
2.06      The project area currently has a population of 229,000 (according
to 1976 estimates b sed on the 1970 census). Average population density is
38.0 persons per km , ranging from 9.8 in the Litoral sub-area (the eastern
portion along the coastal line), to 44.1 in the Tabuleiros e Vales sub-area.
In 1976, 66.2% of the population was rural, compared with 67.3% in 1970,
and 73.8% in 1960. The population is youthful, with 46.5% under 15 years
of age and 29.5% between 15 and 35 years of age. Agriculture, which is the
chief economic activity of the region, accounted for 73.6% of the economically
active population in 1970, industry for 8.3% and services for 18.1%.
(Respective figures for the state as a whole for the same year are 61.0%,
11.4%, and 27.6%.) Within the project area, there are variations in the
composition of employment, with the two main urbarn centers in the area
(Lagarto and Estancia) having markedly higher shares of the work force
employed in industry and services.
Land Tenure
2.07      Distribution of agricultural land by farm size is similar to the
pattern found elsewhere in the Northeast. Of the 24,200 farms (of which 4,670
are non-owner operated), 22,900 (more than 90%) are under 50 ha. The farmers
who cultivate about 25% of the overall area make up the project's target group,
out of which 8,400 farmers are expected to be its direct beneficiaries. The
following table summarizes the size distribution of all farms in the project
area:



-7-
No. of farms
Project                       Non-    No. of farms by size        % of farms by size
Subarea              Owner   Owner  <10 ha  10-50 ha  >50   <10 ha 11-50 ha >50 ha
Litoral                1,082    376    1,152        197    109    79.0   13.5   7.5
Cerrado Central       1,647    422    1,668         262    139    80.6   12.7   6.7
Tabuleiros e Vales  16,810   3,872  16,537    3,088  1,057    80.0   14.9   5.1
Project Area         19,539   4,670  19,357    3,547  1,305    80.0   14.6   5.4
A high percentage of farmers in the project area who consider themselves
"owners" of their lands actually have no titles, a serious constraint
because they are always subject to dispossession and eviction.
Agricultural Production
2.08      Although the project area represents only about 27% of the area of the
state and contains about 23% of the state's population, it contributes a large
part of the total state marketable production of a number of crops. This is a
reflection on the quality of the land and its development potential. Details
are as follows:
Value of              Quantity of Production
Crop                  Area         Production        Project Area   % Sergipe Production
(ha)       (Cr$ million)         (tons)
Coconuts             13,620            38.1             20,500            36.7
Oranges              10,640           102.1            145,000            97.5
Manioc               10,860            68.2            144,900            43.2
Tobacco (string)      3,950            19.1              3,970            98.0
Bananas                  460            5.4                377            28.2
Other crops           4,480            18.5                n.a.            n.a.
44,010          251.4
Although a wide range of crops is grown in the area and there is considerable
potential for further development, standards of husbandry are currently poor.
Little fertilizer is used, seeds and propagating material (such as young fruit
trees) are of poor quality, and there is little mechanization.



-8-
Agricultural Services
2.09      Three banks, the Bank of Brazil (BB), the Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil (BNB) and the National Cooperative Credit Bank (BNCC), supply rural
credit to project farmers. In 1975-77, they supplied 90% of the total rural
credit. Of this about 40% was long term for investment purposes and 60% was
short-term financing. About 70% of the loans went for crops, 20% for livestock,
4% for agro-industrial installations and 6% for miscellaneous needs. Agri-
cultural extension services are provided by the state Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Enterprise (EMATER-SE). One regional office and seven local
offices are located in the project area, having a total of 48 specialists, but
this staff is insufficient to meet the needs of the farmers. State operated
storage, mechanization and input supply services are available through a small
number of outlets, but their influence is relatively slight. On the other hand,
the two well organized cooperative societies which function in the area are in-
creasing their activities and are already supplying inputs to some 4,000 of their
members and marketing their products.
2.10      There are two small agricultural research stations within the project
area, one at Boquim and the other in Lagarto. These stations are administered
by the Superintendency for Agriculture and Production (SUDAP). They concentrate
on experimental work on citrus, passion fruit, pineapple and other fruit crops.
The National Agricultural Research Enterprise (EMBRAPA) does not operate within
the area but plans are on hand to extend their activities, based on a research
station at Quissama that is outside the project area. The Federal University
of Sergipe (UFS), the Sugar and Alcohol Institute (IAA) and the Brazilian
Coffee Institute (IBC) are also starting programs that will have an influence
in the area.
2.11      Agro-industrial development is just beginning and three processing
plants have been established in recent years, one to handle citrus (frozen
concentrate and juices), one to process vegetables and a third to produce
industrial starch from manioc. In this respect the area is more advanced than
most of the rest of the Northeast. Marketing facilities are also relatively
well developed, both through the cooperatives and through a wide network of
dealers and middlemen.
Social Services
2.12      Health services are poorly developed and those which do exist are
mainly available to the urban population. In 1977 the ratio of physicians
to inhabitants was 1:4,330. Most municipalities have a number of health
centers, but most of them do not function due to lack of equipment and personnel.
Two small hospitals operate in the two main towns of the project area. Educa-
tional facilities are also more available to the urban population than to the
rural population. Twelve municipalities have elementary schools from the
first to eighth grade and another three have schools up to the fourth grade.
In the remoted rural areas there are some 570 school units of the lower grades
but there is a shortage in schools as there are insufficient professional
teachers. In 1976, approximately 42% of children aged 7 to 14 attended school
in the rural sector of the project area, compared with 82% in the urban
sector. Only about 30% of the population over 15 years of age is literate.



-9-
The water supply system is also very unsatisfactory. It is expected however
that at the end of 1979, 80% of the urban population will be able to have
their homes connected to a regular water supply system. This service is not
available in the rural areas.
Physical Infrastructure
2.13      A system of main roads, secondary roads and access tracks covers
each sub-area, and federal paved highway No. 101 cuts across the entire area.
The municipal road network, linking rural settlements with municipal centers
and the state and federal highway system, totals 1,560 km, of which about
220 km are paved. Not all of the secondary and tertiary roads are well
maintained, and being without proper drainage they are impassable during the
rainy season.  Some 270 km of railway lines also pass through the project
area. Postal and telegraph services exist in each municipality, but the
telephone system connects only three towns in the area with Aracaju. Elec-
trical transmission lines cross the project area bringing electricity to the
urban centers and small towns.
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
Institutions to be Engaged in the Project
3.01      The main agencies involved in rural development in the project
area are BB, BNB, and BNCC; the State Technical Assistance and EMATER-SE; the
state's agricultural research unit in SUDAP; the Sergipe Fertilizers and
Agricultural Materials Company (COMASE); the Marketing Service of the
Superintendency for Agriculture and Production; and the two cooperative
societies (Treze and Estancia). Other agencies involved in rural development
include the State Secretariats of Education and Culture, Health and the
State Highways Department (DER-SE). Although there are numerous agencies
involved, their effectiveness has been hampered by both limited resources and
the fact that orientation toward integrated rural development is just emerging
in the state.
State Framework for Executing the POLONORDESTE Program
3.02      The POLONORDESTE program which was established by the Federal
Government in late 1974 is coordinated in SERGIPE by a Management Council
(Conselho Director), created in July 1976, to provide policy and general
coordination for the execution of POLONORDESTE-financed projects. The
Council is headed by the Superintendent of Agriculture and Production,
but, in practice, the Governor of the State presides at some meetings.
Other members of the Council include the State Secretary of Planning, the
State Director of the Ministry of Agriculture, representatives from the
Federal Ministries of Agriculture and Interior (the latter through SUDENE),
and representatives of BB and BNB. Whenever necessary, other Secretaries
also take part in the deliberations. The Council is responsible for setting
general directives for POLONORDESTE activities and defining overall priorities
and strategy; ensuring appropriate participation in the program by executing
agencies; approving annual operating plans for specific projects and annual
plans of participating executing agencies; and coordinating efforts of
executing agencies and resolving problems affecting project implementation.



- 10 -
3.03      There are two POLONORDESTE projects currently under preparation
or under implementation in Sergipe: the Tabuleiros Sul project in which
the Bank would be involved and the Tabuleiros Norte project in the northern
part of the state. Day-to-day management, supervision, coordination and
administration of these two Tabuleiros projects is provided by an Administration
Technical Unit within SUDAP. This management unit is headed by a coordinator
who answers directly to the Superintendent of Agriculture and Production.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
4.01      The Tabuleiros area is presently underdeveloped, mainly because
of the lack of physical or service infrastructure but it has a relatively
high population density. However, despite its depressed condition the area
has considerable natural advantages and thus development potential. These
advantages can be summarized as follows:  (a) the area is close to the
state's major consumption center of Aracaju, the state capital (current
population of nearly 300,000 inhabitants); (b) its road system is, relative
to other parts of the state, more developed; (c) there is potential for
cash crops such as fruit trees; and (d) it includes a large number of small
farmers who have a tradition of small-scale agriculture. Because of its
development potential, the area was selected as one of two "priority" develop-
ment areas in the Government's POLONORDESTE rural development program (para
3.03), and in late 1977, the state contacted the Bank office in Recife,
requesting collaboration in project preparation and financing. Several Bank
preparation assistance missions followed and the project was appraised in
September 1978.
B. Brief Description
4.03      Overall, the project aims at:
(a)  increasing productivity and incomes, broadening opportunities
and generally improving the standard of living of 8,400 small
farmers and their families, these being the estimated direct
beneficiaries of the project;
(b)  raising agricultural production in Sergipe to cater for local
and export markets;
(c)  developing further the technical and administrative capacity of
institutions involved in agriculture and rural development in
the state, and, hopefully, encouraging the development of distinct
small farmer orientation within these institutions; and
(d) serve as a "pilot" operation to benefit small farmers
through existing cooperative societies.



- 11 -
4.04      The proposed project would seek to achieve its objectives, over a
five-year implementation period, by providing:
(a) agricultural extension, experimentation, and land surveying
and titling services;
(b) credit, to help finance on-farm investment and incremental
working capital on farms of up to 50 ha in size;
(c) colonization facilities at 23 settlement sites, each for 60
farmers;
(d)   expansion and improvement of education services and health
facilities;
(e)   improved marketing facilities;
(f)   a network of feeder and access roads; and
(g)   project management, including administration, monitoring
and evaluation.
4.05      The Project Administration Unit (PAU) would be responsible for
project management and monitoring. Individual project components would be
executed by existing line agencies under the general guidance and coordina-
tion of the Project Administration Unit. Federal, state and private agencies
and 15 municipal governments would be involved as direct executors or major
collaborators in execution. Where implementation/management skills of
executing agencies are weak, they would be boosted by the project, the
institutional strengthening thus having significance beyond the project. Each
executing agency would have a project liaison officer responsible for project
matters and relations with the Project Administration Unit. The details of
the types of farmer for whom the project has been designed are as follows:
Project                Non-owner
Sub-area               Operators              Owner-Operators
>2 ha      >10 ha       10-15 ha    Sub-total    Total
Litoral                   115          275           125          400          515
Cerrado Central           125          425           155          580          705
Tabuleiros e Vales      1,990        3,620         1,570        5,190       7,180
Project Area          2,230        4,320         1,850        6,170       8,400
The project's main objective of increasing the incomes of the 8,400 direct
beneficiaries, will be achieved through an increase in productivity, which
will hopefully follow the provision of improved agricultural services.
Assumptions on attainable yield increases are given in Annex 8.



- 12 -
C. Detailed Features
Agricultural Services
4.06      Agricultural Extension.  Since rural extension is essential for the
promotion of improved technology and credit, EMATER-SE, the state technical
assistance and rural extension agency, would be expanded and strengthened
under the project. The project would finance the salaries, and travel ex-
penses of incremental staff; incremental operating costs (transportation,
materials and supplies); equipment and vehicles for the expanded staff;
establishment and operating costs of demonstration plots on selected farms;
staff training costs (pre- and in-service training); and farmers' training
costs (short courses). Under the project, the extension staff in the project
area would expand from 48 to 109 technicians.  Total costs would amount to
about US$4.03 million (6.8% of baseline project costs) over the five-year
project period.
4.07      The project would also include a change in the structure and
methodology of the local extension system. Rather than the principally credit
supervision approach, a specialization of function would be developed. Agri-
cultural extensionists (middle level agricultural technicians) would be
trained to provide, on a fixed schedule of periodic visits, agronomic
advice to groups of up to 20 project farmers organized around contact farmers
and demonstration fields. Through these visits and demonstrations, agri-
cultural extensionists would promote the adoption of improved production tech-
niques (technical packages) developed by the extension and research services.
The agricultural extensionists would be backed by subject matter specialists
(higher level agronomists with specialized expertise) who would also supervise
and coordinate the diffusion of new production technology. Farm management
and credit extensionists would assist farmers in farm management, and in
preparing and processing credit proposals. Social (home science) extensionists
would also work with contact families in close collaboration with the agri-
cultural extensionists, but would focus primarily on nutrition, health, and
education. The agricultural extension component would be implemented through
a regional office in Boquim and nine local offices, a net increase of two
local offices. Each agricultural extensionist would eventually work with
eight to 10 contact farmers, through whom he would contact about 200 farmers;
each farm management and credit extensionist would work with about 300 farmers,
while each social extensionists would work with about six groups of 50 farm
families each, or a total of 300 families.
4.08      Agricultural Experimentation.  The proposed project would concen-
trate on the testing and adapting, under different farming systems, tech-
nological packages and improved agronomic practices generated by the NCCs and
ARCs 1/. Some of the experiments would be carried out on existing experiment
stations, but most would be sited on land owned by cooperating farmers. The
State Research Station in Quissama would carry out experiments with coconuts
and manioc, while SUDAP would continue, through its Coordination and Execution
1/   National Commodity Centers and Agricultural Research Centers.



- 13 -
Unit, to work with citrus, passion fruit, papaya, guava, pineapples and
bananas. In addition, the research agencies would provide technical assist-
ance to EMATER-SE for the planning and implementation of demonstration fields,
would produce high quality plant material for propagation, and would assist
SUDAP in establishing the proposed nursery inspection program (para 7.01).
4.09      The details of the experimentation component have not yet been
fully defined by the local research agencies. Therefore, during negotiations
assurances were received that the state research agencies, together with
EMBRAPA's technical department and the NCCs and ARCs concerned, would
prepare a detailed agricultural experimentation plan to be submitted to the
Bank for comment by November 30, 1979. Items to be financed under the
project include equipment and materials, and incremental salaries and
operating costs for carrying out experimental work.  Total costs amount to
about US$0.5 million (0.9% of project's baseline costs).
4.10      Land Surveying and Titling.  The proposed land surveying and
titling component would aim at clarifying and legalizing the land tenure
situation of a substantial number of farmers in the project area by providing
land titles to 3,200 farmers, each occupying less than 50 ha. The component
would include the promotion of this service among small farmers, the identi-
fication and listing of target farmers, the measuring and mapping of the
occupied lands, and the undertaking of the legal and administrative steps
necessary to grant titles.  For the execution of this component, a special
office and full-time task force would be set up by SUDAP.  The task force
would be built up gradually and would eventually be divided up into units,
each consisting of two lawyers, an agronomist, a surveyor, an assistant
surveyor, a draftsman, a driver and a secretary, stationed in Estancia (two
units), Lagarto (one unit), and Boquim (one unit).  There would be one
general coordinator responsible for programming and controlling the work of
the various units. The field work should also enable the land titling unit
to advise the Project Administration Unit on problems encountered by the
area's non-landowner farmers in their rental or sharecropping arrangements,
and on possible improvements which the project might subsequently promote,
to help identify potential beneficiaries for the colonization component
(paras 4.16 to 4.19). Items to be funded would include payment of salaries,
services, materials, and equipment. Component costs would total about
US$1.2 million (2.1% of project's baseline costs), an average of US$385 per
farm title.
4.11      Because the land titling activity is new in Sergipe, the task
force has not yet been established. The state representatives brought to
negotiations evidence that personnel have been selected and recruited and
were being trained.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that by
November 30, 1979, a detailed plan of operation for the first year, for the
task force, would be prepared and submitted to the Bank. This plan would
identify criteria for selecting priority working areas, the methodology to
be followed for promotion and execution of the land titling services, a
detailed time schedule of all steps required by a farmer from title appli-
cation to final title issuance, and a system for reporting performance.



- 14 -
Credit
4.12      The project would provide:
(a) incremental short-term credit (up to one-year) to help cover
costs of inputs and other seasonal costs for the production
of short-cycle crops; for the establishment of semi-permanent
crops; and for the maintenance and improvement of established
permanent crops. About 8,400 small-scale farmers would be
eligible for these loans;
(b)  medium and long-term credit (up to eight years for "semi-fixed"
and 12 years for fixed investment) to establish permanent crops
(about 6,170 farmers); for land clearing and improvement and for
materials for housing (about 1,400 participants of the colonization
scheme); and for on-farm storage facilities, tools and equipment;
and
(c)  credit for land purchase (up to 20-years) to the approximately
1,400 farmers participating in the colonization schemes.
4.13      Those eligible for credit would be farmers owning less than 50 ha
within the 15 municipalities comprising the project area, with priority
being given to low-income small farmers falling within the definition of
the project target groups. It is estimated that about 6,550 (about 80% of
the credit beneficiaries) would operate farms of less than 10 ha. Virtually
all expected participants are estimated to now have incomes below the relative
poverty level in Brazil.
4.14      EMATER-SE extension agents, specialized in credit matters, would
assist farmers in the preparation of subloan applications and in the develop-
ment and execution of their farm plans. Funds would be channeled to the
farmers by the two federal banks, BB and BNB, through their existing (six)
and planned (two) 1/ branches in the project area and in nearby municipalities.
BNCC would also contribute short-term credit to the two cooperative societies
for working capital. The source of funds would be the Central Bank of Brazil,
refinancing through POLONORDESTE, which would maintain credit lines with the
participating banks to make available the necessary funds to cover all sub-
loans. Lending terms and conditions would be the same as those in effect
under the POLONORDESTE program. Credit requirements for the first five
years of the project are estimated to be, on an incremental basis, a total
of about US$29.7 million (50.4% of the project's baseline costs).
4.15      Bearing in mind Brazil's inflation rate (an average of 42% for the
last three years), the interest rates 2/ adopted by the Government for
POLONORDESTE projects are negative in real terms and the Government is still
reluctant to reduce the subsidy further for small farmer programs such as
POLONORDESTE. How ever since the beneficiaries of the proposed project would
1/   To start operating next year.
2/   10% for seasonal and supervised investment credit and 12% for land
purchase credit.



- 15 -
be mainly in the lower income classes and since the possibility of mis-
allocations of resources is greatly reduced by the proposed agricultural
extension and monitoring activities, the Bank should be prepared to agree
with the Government's position. During negotiations, assurances were received
from the Government that it would maintain agreements with the participating
banks to ensure their continued active collaboration in execution of the
project; that project credit would be extended to the small-scale farmers at
POLONORDESTE terms and conditions; and that the Bank would be promptly
informed of any changes in POLONORDESTE terms and conditions. Also, to help
ensure that project credit would be available to as large a number of
farmers as possible and that the focus on smaller scale operations would be
achieved, Bank disbursements would be limited to subloans to farmers whose
total debt (investment and working capital) outstanding under the program
was 100 MVR 1/ or less (about US$6,000).  Since repayments of seasonal crop
production short-term subloans would, on average, be repaid in one year,
assurance were received during negotiations that the Government would make
these funds available each subsequent year for reapplication under the
project credit component. Bank disbursements for seasonal crop credit in
POLONORDESTE fiscal year 19.79 (April 1979-March 1980) would begin only after
aggregate project working capital credit exceeded the comparable amount
extended under POLONORDESTE in the project area in fiscal 1978. 2/ In each
following year, disbursements for seasonal crop credit would be made only
against credit in excess of the amount extended by the project during the
previous year. During negotiations assurances were received that a Project
Credit Statistics and Monitoring System would be set up by December 31, 1979
by the Project Administration Unit, and that the Project Evaluation Unit
would, on a yearly basis, evaluate the implementation of the credit component.
Colonization
4.16      The proposed component would consist of 23 settlements of about
60 families each (1,400 families in all), on 8-ha farm units, covering a
total area of 11,200 ha. Because no less than 20% of the farm area (1.6 ha)
would be kept as a forest reserve (in compliance with existing regulations)
and since about 15% more is needed for roads, housing, and such, the net
cultivable area would be about 5.2 ha per farm. Individual settlers are
expected to develop 85% of this area, or about 4.5 ha, during the project
implementation period. Specific lands for colonization have not yet been
selected and, consequently, particular settlement schemes have not been
identified. However, general settlement policies have been agreed upon
and some prototype settlement schemes are already in existence. The project
would finance the purchase of the land (entirely with local funds); salaries,
operating costs, equipment and vehicles for settlement design, coordination
and supervision by the state CEPA staff; and, under the project credit
1/   The "Maximum Reference Value" (MRV) is a periodically adjusted measure
equivalent to about US$60.00 in September 1978.
2/   The incremental credit baseline for 1977 was estimated at Cr$ 75 million,
representing seasonal credit granted to farmers with less than 50 ha.



- 16 -
component (para 4.12), investment credit for on-farm development (including
land clearing costs and purchase of light farm equipment and materials for
housing). An electrification program, not part of the project though
financed by POLONORDESTE, would support the colonization component, as
would project-financed access roads, health and sanitation, and education
components. Total component costs would amount to about US$7.3 million
(12.4% of the project's baseline costs).
4.17      Presently, the cooperative societies purchase selected lands
through the Cooperative Development Fund maintained by SUDAP. Once the
settlement scheme is approved by the National Institute of Colonization
and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), land purchase credit for individual farmers to
purchase their respective plots as well as other colonization credit, is
arranged by the cooperative through local banks.  The proceeds of the land
purchase credit are used to reimburse SUDAP special rotating fund, and the
individual farmers repay the local banks at standard POLONORDESTE Credit
terms. During negotiations assurances were received that sufficient resources
(about Cr$ 30.4 million during the five-year project period) would be made
available by POLONORDESTE to SUDAP to maintain such a rotating fund during
project implementation.
4.18      The colonization program requires the participation of several
institutions such as SUDAP, the Sergipe Agricultural Planning Commission
(CEPA-SE), INCRA, the cooperative societies in the project area and EMATER-SE.
To avoid delays during the planning process, the participating institutions
have agreed on individual responsibilities and procedures. The draft details
of these agreements, including criteria for the selection of settlers, were
provided to the Bank at negotiations. A condition for disbursement under
the colonization component would be that the Bank had been provided with the
agreements signed by all parties concerned.
4.19      Overall coordination and supervision of the settlement scheme
would be done by SUDAP through its unit for Coordination of the Execution of
Cooperative Projects and Matters (COPAC). The detailed planning and design
would be the responsibility of a colonization team within the state CEPA and
the coordination with other project components and supervision of implemen-
tation would be done by the Project Administration Unit. The present settle-
ment planning and design team in CEPA would be strengthened to a point where
it would be able to prepare up to six settlement sites per year. An orga-
nizational plan for the team, including number and qualifications of staff
and their functions, was submitted to the Bank during loan negotiations.
Because the execution of the colonization component would be the respon-
sibility of the existing cooperative societies, a Colonization Coordination
Unit would be established in each cooperative. Assurances were received at
negotiations that the organizational arrangements for these units, including
the qualifications of the personnel and their duties, responsibilities and
work procedures, would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1979.
Social Infrastructure
4.20      Education and Vocational Training.  The project would expand and
improve basic education facilities in the project area, hopefully increasing



- 17 -
the literacy rate. Execution of the overall component would be managed by the
Education and Culture Secretariat of Sergipe (SEC). The component would
include: (a) construction, furnishing and equipping of 45 rural primary
schools (including 20 primary schools in the new settlements), with each
school providing about 70 student places (two classrooms), for a total of
6,300 student places, double shift; (b) construction, furnishing and equipping
of three Community Learning Centers (CLC), with each center providing about
105 student places for formal primary education and 120 places for adult
activities; (c) qualitative improvement of primary education by revising the
rural lower level primary curriculum (grades 1-4), organizing accelerated
education programs for overage students, and introducing new teaching guides
and materials; (d) training and/or upgrading of about 725 teachers, 65
school guidance counsellors, and 150 supervisors active in the project area;
(e) provision of training in community development for about 6,200 adults;
(f) provision of occupational training through the Sergipe Tourism Enterprise
(EMSETUR) and the National Commercial Apprenticeship Service (SENAC) for
about 6,300 adults; (g) the carrying out by SEC, under agreements with the
Federal Universities of Sergipe and Bahia, of studies on the social and
economic characteristics and training requirements of the target population,
and projections of employment to be generated by the project in the project
area; (h) the building up of an education evaluation capacity by SEC; and
(i) the strengthening of SEC's administrative and supervisory capacity for the
overall project component.
4.21      The project would finance design, civil works, equipment and
furnishings for the primary schools and CLCs; consultancy fees and printing
costs for the development of new teaching guides and materials; costs of
the teachers' school guidance counsellors' and supervisors' upgrading program;
costs of the education and training services contracted with the Movement for
Basic Education (MEB), EMSETUR and SENAC; costs of the studies contracted
with the Federal Universities of Sergipe and Bahia; and salaries and operating
costs of project implementation personnel within SEC during the component
execution period. Direct beneficiaries of the education and training component
would include some 31,000 primary students, 280 colonization scheme families,
930 teachers, school guidance counsellors and supervisors, and 12,000 adults.
Component costs would amount to about US$2.76 million (4.7% of the project's
baseline costs) over the five-year project period.
4.22      The rural primary schools would be constructed according to
prototype plans, satisfactory to the Bank, and would be located where the
population is at least 1,160 within a catchment area of about 28 km2,
where existing insufficient or inadequate facilities result in pupils
walking more than 3 km to reach the school, and where there is year-round
access.  The siting of the primary schools to be located in colonization
schemes would be determined once the colonization areas are defined. The
location of the CLCs has already been defined and is satisfactory. SEC
submitted to the Bank during negotiations: (a) prototype plans for the
three CLCs and the rural primary schools to be built under the project; and
(b) the terms of reference for the instructors' and project participants'
training programs and for the studies to be carried out by the Federal
Universities of Sergipe and Bahia. During negotiations, assurances were
received from the state that SEC would (a) select the coordinators



- 18 -
of the CLCs before initiating the construction of these centers; (b) by
November 30 each year, send to the Bank for approval details of the com-
ponent work program for the following year and the site plans for the
schools to be built in each respective year, including the justification
for the location according to the agreed criteria; and (c) by March 31,
1980, submit to the Bank an acceptable final draft of the revised primary
curriculum and training for introduction of the new curriculum, and the
curriculum and an acceptable plan for the implementation of the accelerated
program. Conditions for disbursements under the education and training
component would be that: (a) additional personnel had been contracted to
the Planning Department of SEC; (b) the Bank had been provided with satis-
factory evidence of the acquisition of the respective sites; and (c) the
Bank had been provided with agreements between the state and agencies
participating in the component (MEB, EMSETUR, SENAC, and the Federal Univer-
sities of Sergipe and Bahia).
4.23      Health and Sanitation.  The health component would provide a wide
coverage low cost health delivery system to serve, at full development,
about 65,000 people -- 100% of the project beneficiaries and 30% of the
remaining rural population living within the influence area of the project.
The health component would be administered by the Secretariat of Health of
Sergipe (SES) and would include the following: (a) the construction and
equipment of 25 rural health posts (supplementing another 24 to be built
under other Government programs); (b) the cost of preinvestment studies for
constructing village water supply systems, identifying water sources,
potentiality of deep wells, quality of water and alternative solutions; (c)
the construction of 33 water supply systems (complementing another 32
systems that will be financed under other programs); (d) the construction of
1,400 family pit latrines in the 23 settlements to be implemented under the
colonization scheme; (e) the training of 50 rural attendants, some nine
sanitation auxiliaries and 15 water supply operators and nine supervisory
auxiliary nurses and the carrying out of refresher courses for all rural
staff and three regional seminars for evaluating progress of the health and
sanitation component; and (f) 12 months of technical assistance in health
administration to help identify constraints of the regional health system,
elaborate and implement proposals for developing such a system, and train
required personnel. The project would finance construction and equipment
costs; participants travel and boarding; material costs of the training
program; salary complements; technical assistance; and equipment and operat-
ing costs for health component supervision. Total component costs during
the five-year project period would amount to US$1.27 million (2.2% of the
project's baseline costs).
4.24      SES would manage the health component (organization of rural health
posts, staff training, and technical assistance) and the construction of pit
latrines. However, the foundation for Public Health Services (FSESP) would
continue to manage health services in the municipalities in which it operates.
Execution of the health component would build upon a significant community
organization and promotion effort by the social extensionists of EMATER-SE
(para 4.07), who would assist in the formation of village health societies.



- 19 -
These societies would contribute materials and/or labor to health post
construction and possibly offset a small part of the maintenance costs
of health facilities through modest fees; contribute to the financing
and managing of village water supply systems (para 4.25); and, in some
cases, provide a basis for greater community involvement in other project
development activities. Each local health post would be staffed with a paid
health attendant. Local health services would be simple, focusing on the
provision of pre-natal care, vaccinations, health and nutrition education,
and selected curative treatments. The health post would also provide a
valuable mechanism for executing parallel Government endemic disease and
nuitrition programs. Similarly, the project health centers would also serve
as channels for food supplement activities financed by the National Food and
Nutrition Institute (INAN). Project training would be directed toward the
rural health attendants, regional health service supervisors, and health
center attendants.
4.25      The proposed health activities would also provide for the study,
design and construction of about 33 village water supply system (23 of which
would be in new settlements), providing potable water to some 10,000 people,
and the training of village' water system operators. This subcomponent would
also be built upon community organizations; therefore, one of the key project
activities would be the EMATER-SE community organization effort, which
would, hopefully, involve most of the population. The State's Company for
Sanitation would operate and maintain all collective systems financed by
the project and would construct water supply systems in the already existing
villages; while the cooperatives would be responsible for construction
of such systems in the planned settlements. Operation costs of the 33
collective water systems to be set up under the project in existing villages
and in new settlements would be financed by the municipalities, the State
Company for Sanitation and contributions from the cooperative societies and
the users. Assurances were received during negotiations that detailed
proposals for executing the health and sanitation component would be pre-
sented by December 31, 1979 to the Bank for its approval. Conditions of
disbursement against health and sanitation costs would be that a detailed
program had been approved by the Bank, and that appropriate participation
agreements had been signed by the executing agencies.
Physical Infrastructure
4.26      Feeder and Access Roads.  The project would finance engineering
design and construction or upgrading of about 560 km of low cost feeder and
access roads, and the purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts
(para. 4.27). Total costs of this component would amount to about US$10.05
million (17.1% of the project's baseline costs) over the five-year period.
The roads would include: (a) about 151 km of improved earth roads (4.5 m
wide), costing an average of US$9,100 per km; (b) 245 km of gravel-surfaced
roads (5.0 m wide), costing an average of US$16,300 per km; (c) 31 km of
gravel-surfaced roads (6.0 m wide), costing an average of US$22,900 per km;
and (d) about 133 km of yet unspecified all weather roads (4.5 m or 5.0 m wide),
costing an average of US$12,100 per km. The design standards for the three
road types (Annex 1) would be finalized during negotiations. DER-SE would be
responsible for execution of the works. DER-SE has a competant design staff,



- 20 -
under its Technical Directorate, and supervises construction through its
four Regional Residencies, of which two are located in the project area.
Detailed design for the project roads would be partly carried out by DER-SE,
and partly by consultants (para. 4.28).
4.27      Maintenance of municipal roads is the responsibility of each
municipality. DER-SE provides some assistance by renting motorgraders from
its Regional Residencies to municipalities and charges at least for fuel
consumption. However because of the small amount of funds that the muni-
cipalities receive from the national road fund and municipalities taxes,
only a few roads receive any care. Therefore, the project would finance
purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts, totalling about
US$1.0 million, over the five-year project period. During negotiations
assurances were received from the state that all equipment procured under
the project would be operated and maintained by DER-SE and be used solely                   a
for maintenance of municipal roads in the project area. The state would
enter into contractual arrangements with the municipalities before construc-
tion began whereby such municipalities would undertake to make available the
right-of-way for the roads and would allocate sufficient funding and manpower
to assist DER-SE in maintaining the constructed roads.
4.28      In Sergipe, DER-SE requires strengthening to perform its mainten-
ance duties and to provide assistance to all municipalities in the state.
Therefore, two experienced civil engineers would be hired by the Project
Administration Unit and assigned to the two DER-SE Regional Residencies at
Lagarto and Estancia. They would be responsible, under the Chief Engineer,
for programming and supervising construction of the project roads and for
maintenance assistance to the municipalities in the project area. Assurance
were received at negotiations that terms and conditions of employment of the
two engineers would be satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations,
assurances were also received from the state that, by November 30, 1979, it
would provide for Bank comment a study indicating equipment, personnel and
funding requirements for DER-SE and the municipalities for maintaining
municipal roads in the project area, and by December 31, 1981, it would
prepare and furnish to the Bank its program for strengthening the capacity
of DER-SE to maintain all roads and highways, to provide maintenance assistance
to the municipalities and to support highway policing and vehicle weight control
on state roads and highways. The contracting of the two afore-mentioned
engineers would be a condition of disbursement for the feeder and access roads
component. The state and federal highways in the project area are generally
adequate, although construction of of three collector roads, totalling about
41 km (Annex 2), has been programmed by the state. Since these roads are
needed to support the project, assurances were received from the state during
negotiations that it would build the three collector roads by December 31,
1981.
4.29      Marketing Facilities.  The project would finance the construction
and equipping of a farmer's market at Umbauba by the State Supply Company
(CEASA). The market would be constructed in the second year of the project.
It would have cement floors and a roof of sheet metal or local tile and would
cost about US$0.22 million. The market would be technically and administra-
tively dependent of the existing market at Boquim. It would be operated and



- 21 -
maintained by CEASA. Marketing fees would be paid by users to cover full
operating, maintenance and capital recovery costs. During negotiations,
assurances were received that the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) would
agree that CEASA would contract the construction and would operate, maintain
and finance operating costs of the market. The presentation of this agree-
ment to the Bank would be a condition for disbursement against marketing
facilities costs.
Project Management
4.30      The existing Administration Technical Unit in SUDAP, which is
responsible for the implementation of the POLONORDESTE projects in Sergipe,
would be in charge of the planning, implementation, monitoring and control
of the Tabuleiros Sul project through a Project Administration Unit (para
6.02). This nine person unit would include headquarters staff in Aracaju and
a field project coordinator. The majority of the staff will be recruited by
SUDAP before negotiations and trained.   A separate Evaluation Unit (paras
6.09 and 6.10) answering to the state's POLONORDESTE Management Council, would
be set up in CEPA-SE. The project would cover the costs of equipping, staffing
and providing necessary materials and contract services to maintain the two
units during the five-year project period. Arrangements have been made that
the state would identify, hire and train qualified key personnel for the
Project Administration Unit and CEPA's Evaluation Unit. The Project
Administration Unit is already operative. Assurances were received during
negotiations that the terms and conditions of employment of consultants, which
will be contracted for various studies on either technical or evaluation
issues, would be satisfactory to the Bank. Total component costs would
amount to about US$1.80 million or 3% of project baseline costs.
Activities Planned Parallel to the Project 1/
4.31      Cooperative Society Development.  The two cooperatives existing in
the project area (Estancia and Treze) are already playing, and will continue
to play, important roles in agricultural development in the project area.
Since the two cooperatives are already reasonably well developed, the project
does not include a specific component to directly finance any of their programs.
However, the expansion of their activities and strengthening of their organiza-
tion would be necessary and will be carried out with their own resources and
with lines of credit available to cooperatives, especially in the area of
colonization, processing, and marketing of products. Onlending production
and investment credit to member farmers has been an important contribution
of the cooperatives to widening credit coverage among small farmers and to
lowering its costs. Every year each cooperative would prepare, with the
assistance of the Project Credit Coordinator, annual plans of its credit
requirements, as well as annual progress reports on its performance.
1/   These activities are not financed under the project, but are
complementary to it.



- 22 -
4.32      The cooperatives would also make use of the Cooperative Development
Fund to finance the purchase of members' marketable produce. This fund would
initially provide a total of Cr$ 15 million in the first two years of the
project, thereby strengthening considerably the cooperatives' bargaining
position with respect to competing middlemen. The project management would
also, with the collaboration of the cooperatives and CEPA-SE, identify in
advance and help plan the marketing of products such as oranges, passion
fruit, papayas, and pineapples to the local processing factories or to
factories outside the project area.
4.33      Since the cooperatives are providing various services, and since a
farmer may simultaneously have several business transactions with the
cooperative (i.e., land purchase credit, production and investment credit,
supply of inputs, sale of product), it is important to have a centralized
and efficient accounting and reporting system for each farmer.  The coopera-
tives, in coordination with the project management, expect to enter into
working agreements with BNCC to obtain technical assistance in this area.
During negotiations, assurances were received from the state that, by
March 31, 1980, a plan of action for improving farmer accounts and reporting
systems has been developed.
4.34      Input Supply and Mechanization Services.  Agricultural development
activities under the project should result in increased demand for input
supplies, especially fertilizers, pesticides and improved disease-free planting
material for various fruit crops. Moreover, mechanization services would be
required, especially in the case of colonization schemes, for land clearing
and preparation. Under the project, the two cooperatives and the State's
Input Supply Company (COMASE) would supply inputs and mechanization services.
COMASE has five outlets in the project area but does not monopolize (nor is it
likely to) the provision of farm inputs and mechanization services. Its
presence is viewed by the state as an important means to assure that at least
the inputs and mechanization services required for state-supported development
efforts are available when and where needed and that, where there are other
suppliers, prices remain competitive. The state policy is for COMASE to
operate, insofar as possible, as a self-financing entity, and, since the
cooperatives also have funds and sufficient sources of short-term credit, to
finance procurement of any inputs, it has been agreed that the Bank would not
finance these items.
4.35      The proposed agricultural development plan contemplates intensive
cropping patterns. For this, and for the rest of the agricultural develop-
Tnent program, existing machinery (124 chain tractors and 411 wheel tractors)
in the project area would be sufficient. However, to assure prompt service,
the Project Administration Unit, with the Colonization Units in the coopera-
tives (para 4.19) would review annually the machinery requirements and would
set up a schedule of monthly works to be done. This advance planning would
be issued to enable, whenever necessary, competitive bidding for contracts
for land clearing and other mechanized works.
4.36      Storage.  Surplus crop production would not require off-farm
storage facilities, except in the case of tobacco, the storage for which
is already provided for by cooperative warehousing. However, the financing
of small on-farm installations to serve as places to house implements,
inputs and marketable or home-consumption farm produce may be necessary.



- 23 -
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs over the five-year project period (April
1979 to March 1984) are estimated at US$76.0 million, which includes the
equivalent of roughly US$1.5 million in state and federal taxes, physical
contingencies equivalent to 5.4% of baseline costs, and price contingencies
equivalent to 23.7% of baseline costs. Physical contingencies of 7% have
been added to the agricultural extension and experimentation, land titling,
marketing facilities, and project administration components; 10% to coloni-
zation, feeder roads (in addition to 10% physical contingencies included
in baseline costs), and education components; and 15% to the health and
sanitation component.  Price contingencies have been calculated in US dollar
terms as follows: for civil works, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% per year thereafter;
for equipment, 6.5% in 1979 and 6% per year thereafter; for other materials
and supplies, credit, salaries, and such, 7% in 1979 and per year thereafter.
Annual phasing of project costs is shown in Annex 3.
Financing
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$26.0 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would finance 35% of project costs net of taxes (34% of
total project costs). The balance would be provided by the Federal Govern-
ment through its POLONORDESTE program, and financing plans for the recurrent
costs to be funded by local funds would have to be made. During negotiations,
assurances were received from the Government that adequate funds would be
made available promptly for the purpose of effective and timely execution of
the project, and adequate operation and maintenance of the facilities and
services provided under the project. Assurances were received from the
state that it would arrange for the timely acquisition and necessary financing
of any additional land or rights-of-way which are needed for project works.
The loan would be for 15 years, including three years of grace, and would
cover the project's full foreign exchange costs of US$13.5 million equivalent,
as well as US$12.5 million of the local costs.
5.03      Since Brazil is making a vigorous effort to mobilize domestic
resources, it would be appropriate for the Bank to give assistance in financing
some of the local currency expenditures in projects such as the proposed, which
have a high priority and yet have a relatively low foreign exchange content
(in this case). The situation typically arises in agriculture and rural
development projects in Brazil in view of the high capability of the Brazilian
economy to produce of the inputs required for investments of the type involved.
If the Bank is to be effective in supporting a project of this kind, it seems
reasonable for it to finance at least 35% of the costs even though this
entails financing some local currency expenditures.
5.04      To help assure a prompt start of the project, various activities
will commence during the first half of 1979, such as the recruitment and train-
ing of staff for the project unit and extension service, engineering design of
feeder roads, the initiation of on-farm investments and provision of credit.
For this reason, retroactive financing of up to US$750,000 equivalent is
proposed to help cover eligible expenditures after March 31, 1979, but before
the loan is signed.



-24-
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Total Project Costs
(U.S.$ 000')
% of Total    %
Baseline   Foreign
1.  Agricultural Services           Local      Foreign       Total         Costs    Exchange
Extension                       3,549          484       4,033          6.8         12
Experimentation                    451          50         501          0.9         10
Land Titling and Surveying    1,074            147       1,221          2.1         12
Subtotal                    5,074         681       5,755           9.8         12
2. Credit
Investment Credit              16,819       2,968      19,787          33.6         15
Incremental Working Capital   4,674            825       5,499          9.3         15
Credit
Land Clearing and On-farm
Development in Settlements  2,878         1,549       4,425           7.5         35
Subtotal                   24,371       5,342      29,711          50.4         18
3. Colonization
Land Purchase                   5,973          -         5,973         10.1         -
Colonization Planning and
Implementation                1,134         200       1,334           2.3         15
Subtotal                    7,107         200       7,307         12.4           3
4. Social Infrastructure
Education and Vocational
Training                      2,348         414       2,762           4.7         15
Health and Sanitation           1,082          191       1,273          2.2         15
Subtotal                    3,430         605       4,035           6.9         15
5. Physical Infrastructure
Feeder and Access Roads         6,734        3,316     10,050          17.1         33
Marketing Facilities               176          44         220          0.4         20
Subtotal                    6,910       3,360      10,270         17.5          33
6. Project Management
Administration and MDnitoring 1,278            142       1,420          2.4         10
Evaluation and Studies             342          38         380          0.6         10
Subtotal                    1,620         180       1,800           3.0         10
Total Baseline Costs       48,499      10,379      58,878         100.0         18
Physical Contingencies    2,616           574       3,190           5.4         18
Prices Contingencies       11,439       2,511      13,950          23.7         18
Total Project Costs        62,554      13,464      76,018        129.1          18



- 25 -
Procurement
5.05      The numerous miscellaneous farm inputs to be procured by indivi-
dual farmers and financed through the credit component (totalling more than
US$25.0 million) would be purchased through local trade channels. The
equipment, materials and vehicles required over the project execution period
by the numerous agencies responsible for the different project components
(totalling about US$5.0 million) are locally produced and readily available.
Such items would be procured in accordance with local procurement and
bidding procedures, which are acceptable. Construction works (totalling
US$8.6 million without contingencies) for the feeder roads would be divided
into construction lots. The Bank would review the standard construction
bidding and contract documents before the first round of bidding, but awards
would be reviewed on an ex-post basis. Contracts for these works and for
the civil works required for the marketing, colonization, and education
facilities (an additional US$4.2 million) would be awarded to prequalified
bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures which are satisfactory. Brazil has a competitive
local construction industry capable of carrying out the project works.
Since the individual construction works are relatively small and quite
dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, though
they would not be excluded from bidding. All of the other construction
works included in the project (for health posts, village water supply, and
the like, totalling some US$0.7 million) would be small and of varied design
as well as geographically dispersed. Consequently, they would be carried
out through a combination of self-help, force account and local bidding.
Consultancy services, most of which are expected to be local, would have a
total cost of approximately US$1.0 million equivalent (about US$2,200/man-
month).
Disbursements
5.06      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against 38%
of expenditures for each project component other than for goods and services
for Part A.1 (Agricultural Extension) of the project for which the disburse-
ment rate would be 27%. No loan disbursements would be made for land purchase.
Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of Brazil, the fiscal agent
for the POLONORDESTE program, against withdrawal applications covering state-
ments of expenditures initiated by the various implementing agencies under the
project and certified by the Project Administration Unit. Supporting documen-
tation for credit, salaries, administrative expenses and minor construction
under force account would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained
by the Project Administration Unit and made available for inspection by the
Bank during the course of project supervision missions. Standard documentation
covering civil works, vehicles and equipment and technical assistance would be
submitted to the Bank. Details of the documents required were reviewed during
negotiations. Disbursements are expected to occur over about five years. The
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 4.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
6.01      The various components of the proposed project, with the exception
of land titling and overall project administration, would be executed by



- 26 -
existing agencies traditionally responsible for the respective activity -- e.g.,
EMATER-SE for extension, the SEC for education and the such. A detailed list
of these agencies is given, by project component, in Annex 5. To coordinate
and guide development activities under all its POLONORDESTE projects, the
state of Sergipe has already created a POLONORDESTE Management Council
(Conselho Diretor, para 3.02) composed of representatives of the principal
executive agencies and headed by the State Superintendent of Agriculture
and Production. The Management Council would therefore guide and coordinate
all activities under the Tabuleiros Sul Project, while day-to-day coordination,
administration and monitoring of the project would be undertaken by a Project
Administration Unit (PAU).  The present administrative organization of the
POLONORDESTE program in Sergipe is likely to remain in effect over at least
the medium term. Assurances were received from the state during negotiations
that it would maintain, for the implementation period of the project, the PAU
with appropriate staff and resources and would fully support other state
agencies participating in the project.
6.02      An Administration Technical Unit for POLONORDESTE projects was
established in 1977 within SUDAP and this would be in charge of the PAU for
the Tabuleiros Sul Project. The PAU would have two sections, one responsible
for field operations and the other responsible for monitoring. To deal with
project execution, the PAU would, however, require considerable strengthening.
PAU staff would comprise, at full development, an executive coordinator, seven
technical specialists, two part-time student interns, an administrative support
staff in Aracaju headquarters, and a "field project coordinator" of technical
specialist standing. An organization chart of the PAU is provided in Annex 6.
The proposed staff, allocation of staff responsibilities and management
organization structure would be such that headquarters technical staff would
not be overburdened with administrative tasks at the expense of more valuable
trouble-shooting, decision-making and innovative activities in the field.
6.03      Operations staff would coordinate implementation activities of
the numerous executing agencies. To achieve this, there would be four
operational functions within the PAU: agricultural development (agricul-
tural extension, agricultural research, input supply and mechanization
services); production support (on-farm and land purchase credit, land
surveying and titling services, cooperative societies support, colonization
and marketing), social infrastructure (education and training, health and
sanitation), and physical infrastructure (roads). Operations staff would be
assigned to the four operational functions. The staff asigned to each
function would assist the relevant executing agencies to prepare detailed
annual project operating plans and would work with the agencies in coordi-
nating project activities and supervising the progress of each component.
In order to provide administrative continuity and a communication link
between the PAU, the executing agencies, and beneficiaries, and to ensure
speed and efficiency in project execution, a project field coordinator would
be a part of the operations staff. His role as a two-way communication
channel should provide "grass-roots" feedback to project administration and
executing agencies on implementation progress and problems.
6.04      Monitoring/planning staff would deal with monitoring, long-term
planning and special studies under the direction of a monitoring and planning



- 27 -
coordinator. The section would include, initially, two technical specialists
(including the coordinator), two student interns, and administrative auxiliaries.
The unit would have two main tasks. Firstly, staff would monitor the results
of each component and advise the project executive coordinator of short-falls
in project achievements relative to expectations. Standardized forms would be
completed quarterly by executing agencies and forwarded to the monitoring group
for synthesis into quarterly project reports that would be forwarded to project
management, the State POLONORDESTE Management Council, Regional and Federal
POLONORDESTE officials and the Bank. Assurance were received during negotia-
tions that: (a) the Project Administration Unit would standardize data require-
ments among participating agencies and establish coding and analysis procedures
and provide a report on the recommended procedures to the Bank for review
and comment prior to their implementation; and (b) the quarterly project
reports would be provided to the Bank promptly upon their completion.
6.05      The second main task of the monitoring sub-unit would be to organize,
administer, process, and analyze in the first, third and fifth project years,
a farm productivity survey. The farm survey would cover a small sample
(probably less than 350) of participant and non-participant farmers in the
project area. It would be conducted with a fixed format, pre-coded question-
naire centered on production technology, farm inputs, institutional contact
and support, and produce marketing. The PAU would require initial assistance
in this work.  Therefore, assurances were received during negotiations that
the PAU would contract consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank to assist in survey preparation and to establish data processing
and analysis procedures, the recommended survey design and analysis pro-
cedures to be communicated to the Bank, for review and comment prior to
implementation.
Operating Agreements and Procedures
6.06      Since the project covers a broad range of related activities,
and since the timing and scope of some would undoubtedly require adjustment
as experience is gained, flexibility in project execution would need to be
maintained. For this reason, and to help assure continued timely budgetary
support, each participating agency would prepare jointly with the PAU
an annual plan detailing the activities and expected expenditures under
the project for the next year. The annual plans would coincide with
POLONORDESTE's April 1 to March 31 fiscal year. The integrated package of
annual plans, as reviewed and approved by the state POLONORDESTE Management
Council would be submitted to the regional and federal POLONORDESTE coordi-
nating groups as a basis for yearly budget allocations. Assurances were
received during negotiations that the annual plans would be submitted to the
Bank by November 30 each year for review and comment. Assurance were also
received that the annual plans would receive the prompt review of the
regional POLONORDESTE coordinating group (so as to avoid delays in budget
approvals) and that the Bank would be advised of the approved plan by
January 31 each year.
6.07      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, the state Govern-
ment would enter into written agreements (convenios) with certain of the
executing agencies to specify their respective responsibilities under the



- 28-
project and help assure timely project completion. Such agreements are
normally employed in POLONORDESTE projects when: (a) the executing entity
concerned is not directly part of, or responsible to, the Ministry of
Agriculture or the State Government, the principal channels for POLONORDESTE
funding other than credit; (b) the executing agency is largely autonomous;
or (c) special responsibilities (e.g., counterpart funding, adoption of new
procedures) need to be spelled out. In the proposed project, convenios
would be particularly useful in assuring adequate participation of, and
coordination among, the agencies involved in colonization, education and
training, sanitation and health, feeder and access roads, and produce
marketing. Draft convenios required for the execution of these components
were prepared and reviewed by the Bank. During negotiations, assurances
were received from the state that it would enter into and maintain during
the project execution period all such agreements as are necessary to assure
active cooperation of the various agencies participating in the above-
mentioned components. Receipt by the Bank of the respective signed agree-
ments would be a condition of disbursement for each of these components
(paras 4.18, 4.22, 4.25, and 4.29).
Implementation Schedule
6.08      A chronogram of the main project activities is given in Annex 7.
Project Evaluation
6.09      Overall responsibility for project evaluation would lie with an
evaluation unit separate from the PAU, but funded by the project and located
in CEPA-SE. This unit would be established by November 30, 1979. It would
be directly responsible to the Management Council and would carry out
on-going and post facto evaluation of the project. Staff of the evaluation
group would comprise one professional and administrative support, assisted
by consultants where necessary. Evaluation would complement the monitoring
activities of the PAU and would involve a continuous advising of project
management of the extent and quality of project progress and implementation
difficulties. On-going evaluation "products" would comprise reports of
topic-specific evaluation studies, evaluations of PAU monitoring and farm
survey results, and a major mid-project evaluation report (during project
year 3). The evaluation team would also prepare a post facto evaluation
report on the project to serve partly as a project completion report.
Assurance were received during negotiations that the project completion
report would be provided to the Bank within six months of project completion,
and that the evaluation team would be maintained after project completion
and until its functions are assumed by SUDAP.
6.10      Because the project evaluation strategy and work program are not
yet fully defined, the evaluation team would contract a consultant, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in establishing
the project detailed evaluation stragegy and work program. Assurances that
the consultant would be hired and the Bank would be provided with the draft
terms of reference for this consultant's review were received from the
state during negotiations. Assurance were also received during negotiations
that the detailed evaluation plans would be provided to the Bank for comment
by December 31, 1979.



- 29 -
Accounts and Auditing
6.11       Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of its
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by Government auditors
according to standard Government practice for POLONORDESTE projects which is
satisfactory. Both BB and BNB are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit
and BNB is also audited by satisfactory independent auditors. The PAU would
maintain accounts of its own project expenditures as well as statements of
expenditures by each participating agency.  Assurances were received that
copies of the audited statements of project accounts of the various partici-
pating agencies and of the audited statements of the participating banks and
of their lending under the project would be provided to the Bank through the
PAU within six months of the end of their fiscal year. Assurances were also
received that these reports would include a specific mention stating that
the adequacy of internal control systems of the participating agencies and
banks was checked.
VII. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, PRICES, AND MARKETING
Production
7.01      By full development (about year 10), there should be substantial
increases in crop production among project participants. At estimated 1978
farmgate prices, incremental annual production is estimated, at full develop-
ment, to amount to about Cr$ 586.9 million, or US$31.3 million equivalent.
The average value of production per hectare is estimated to increase by
about 118% from Cr$ 9,718 to Cr$ 21, 149, (US$518 to US$1,128 equivalent)
at full development. Approximately a third of incremental production (by
value) would come from oranges, a quarter from coffee, a quarter from coconuts
and miscellaneous fruit crops and the rest from tobacco, peanuts, corn and
beans. Thus, the relative importance of the different crops would change with
project implementation. Estimated production figures are detailed below.
Estimated
Project Participants Estimated Production          Sergipe Production
Crop          Without Project   With Project    Incremental           in 1977 (tons)
__------------------(tons)------------------
Avocadoes                    -           24,470            24,470               1,685
Beans, string              439               779              459             16,000 /1
Coconuts                 1,850            7,510             5,660             49,595
Coffee                       -            5,680             5,680                  55 /2
Corn                       730            5,540             4,810             36,535
Manioc                  29,855           60,865            31,010            461,760
Oranges                 66,640          211,480           144,840            187,920
Passion Fruit            4,150           32,620            28,470               2,000
Peanuts                    865            4,910             4,045               1,275
Tobacco                  3,150            4,445             1,295               6,995
/1   Estimates from IBGE data on per capita consumption.
/2   Data for 1974, latest published estimate.
Source: IBGE, compiled by CEPA/SE except as noted.



- 30 -
Because of the importance of the fruit production and the prevailing condi-
tions in project area, it was agreed that a nursery inspection program and a
pest control coordination program would be set-up by SUDAP. During negotia-
tions assurances were received that a special commission would be created
by December 31, 1979 by SUDAP, which would enter and maintain any agreements
necessary to assure the implementation of the programs of fruit sapling
inspection and pest control coordination in the project area.
Demand, Prices and Markets
7.02      Oranges.  Sergipe's orange production, which was about 188,000 tons
in 1977, shall eventually reach about 400,000 tons per annum when all the
plantings under the project reach maturity. Of this it is believed that by
then 80,000 tons will be absorbed as fresh fruit within the state and that
there will be a market for about 180,000 tons as fresh fruit in other states
of the Northeast (compared to 118,000 tons in 1977). This will leave about
140,000 tons for processing (juices and concentrates). It is believed that
market prospects for such a volume are reasonable since orange is a commodity
with a growing international market, even though prices on such markets may
well drop 10-15% below current levels. From the point of view of farmers in
the project area, such a reduction in price would probably not pose a sub-
stantial problem because they could be more than offset by increases in yield,
the potential for which is high. Also, processing facilities which already
exist, could be expanded as production increases.
7.03      Tropical and Sub-Tropical Fruit Crops.  Such fruit crops may be
divided into short-cycle fruit trees, represented by passion fruit, and
long-cycle fruit trees such as avocadoes, mangoes and guavas. Although
passion fruit would constitute the major crop of the short-cycle fruit
crops, pineapples, papayas and bananas are expected to share the area
earmarked in the agricultural plans for passion fruit. Production of
passion fruit in 1978 is forecast at 2,000 tons in Sergipe and about
20,000 tons for the three other crops. Presently, state production of
pineapples, papayas and bananas is below current consumption while the
demand for passion fruit for juice is expected to continue. It is there-
fore probable that the future incremental production of these crops, esti-
mated at about 11,000 tons at full production, could be absorbed by exist-
ing internal and/or external markets without perceptible effects on prices
to producers. Production of avocadoes, mangoes and guavas in Sergipe is
about 15,000 tons a year and the incremental production of the project is
estimated to be about 24,000 tons. No major price effects are expected from
the incremental production.
7.04      Coconuts production was estimated, in 1978, at 66,000 tons,
while incremental production under the project is estimated at about 6,000
tons. It is probable that there is sufficient excess capacity left in existing
processing facilities to absorb the incremental production without perceptible
effects on prices to producers.
7.05      Coffee production in recent years in Sergipe has been insignificant
but the crop is to be introduced to the project area in line with the Brazilian



- 31 -
Coffee Institute's (IBC) new policies of expanding Robusta coffee production
in frost-free areas. This introduction is not in addition to coffee areas in
other states but is replacing coffee currently growing in frost-prone areas.
Production with the project is expected to be about 5,700 tons at full de-
velopment. There may be a shortage of skills and facilities required to
prepare a crop of this size for market, but otherwise, marketing requirements
are relatively simple and such a volume should have no appreciable effect on
prices.
7.06      Field Crops.  A part of the planned incremental production of manioc
in the project area (about 31,000 tons at full development) would compensate
the losses in production which have occurred in Sergipe in the last few years,
while the remainder could be processed by the already existing starch manu-
facturing plant. Thus, the incremental production should be absorbed without
perceptible effects on farmgate prices. The planned production of peanuts would
be about 4,900 tons. In Sergipe, the price of peanuts in the between-harvest
season is above that in Bahia, while during the harvest season the Sergipe
price falls below that in Bahia. Peanuts can therefore either be shipped
during the harvest season for processing at an oilseed crushing plant at Feira
de Santana, where there is excess capacity, or be stored for household consump-
tion. It is therefore expected that the incremental production will not have
negative effects on prices to producers. The planned increase of corn production
in the project area is 4,800 tons, or about 12% of the expected 1978 pro-
duction in the state. This increase undoubtedly can be marketed with existing
facilities and without perceptible effects on prices. The demand for string
tobacco is thought to be declining, but the cooperatives have already begun
to establish alternative arrangements with tobacco processing companies and
the prospects look good. Therefore, the incremental production of about 1,300
tons is likely to be absorbed without negative efforts on prices to farmers.
Marketing
7.07      Marketing of agricultural production in the project area is now
characterized by minimal government involvement. Existing institutions,
industries and marketing channels are adequate for most marketing needs,
and, given information about better methods and continuing investment,
there could be increasing efficiency. Therefore, no major changes in the
present marketing system are foreseen for the marketing of project pro-
duction. During the project period, marketing options open to producers
are expected to expand, due mainly to the establishment of a producers'
market in Umbauba as a satellite to the present market at Boquim. The
rural roads component would also benefit producers, both lowering trans-
port costs and by improving access.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Illustrative Farm Types
8.01      Given the current ecological and physical conditions (population,
marketing facilities etc) the project area is suited for a wide range of
crops and cropping patterns. Nevertheless, based on field surveys and



- 32 -
information gathered by INCRA, EMATER-SE and CEPA, eight illustrative farm
types have been assumed for the 8,400 project participants. They are:
(a) four coconut farm types for the Litoral and Cerrado Central sub-areas;
(b) one farm type without a permanent crop, typical of non-owner producers;
and (c) three fruit farm types for the Tabuleiros e Vales sub-area. The
assumed distribution of representative farm types and their cropped areas
for the "pre-project" and "with project" situations as well as the project
!part½iPa.ts alt  cropped areas in both situations, are as follows:
Cropped Area                     Total Cropped
___per Farm                   Area
Farm Size                        (ha)            Number           (ha)
SUB AREA         (ha)       Farm Type   Pre-Prol.   With Proj1.   of Farms   Pre-Proj.   With Pro¾,
Litoral           >10          I          2.2         4.5         275          610        1,240
10-50        II          10.8        13.8         125        1,350        1,730
Cerrado Central    >10       III          1.85        3.7         425          790        1,570
10-50        Iv           5.85       9.25         155         910         1,430
Tabuleiros e Vales  -          V 1/       1.1         3.2         830          910        2,660
>10        VI           2.6         4.1       3,620        9,410       14,840
10-50       VII           3.7         6.6       1,570        5,810       10,360
-        VIII 2/       1.2         4.5       1,400        1.680        6,160
Total     8,400       21,470       39,990 3/
On-farm Operations
8.02       It is estimated that the financial rates of return to the farmers
participating in the project could range from about 22% to over 45%. These
estimates appear high but it is worth mentioning that the cropping patterns
include highly profitable crops such as fruit trees, for which good pros-
pective markets exist (paras 7.02 to 7.06). The details of the agrotechnical
assumptions for the eight farm models, as well as the farm operating results
and cash flows of three representative examples of the farm types, are
provided in Annex 8.
8.03      Considered as costs in all the analyses are the on-farm investments
(initial soil preparation, establishment of permanent tree crops and purchase
of minor tools and equipment) and the expected operating costs of farming
activities. Prices for inputs, labor (both hired and family) and production
sold were assumed generally to be those prevailing on the local market.
Expected financial rates of return are summarized as follows:
1/   Non-owner operators farm type with farm sizes from 1.0 -3.0 ha.
2/   Colonization farm type with up to 5.2 ha cultivable area.
3/   Including some 2,380 ha interplanted.



- 33 -
Farm     Financial
Project Sub-area      Farm Type Description           Farm Size      Type  Rate of Return
1.  Litoral      Mainly coconuts 1/, with manioc  up to 10 ha         I          42.0
and subsistence crops              10-50 ha         II         46.0
2.  Cerrado       Coconuts 1/, some other fruit    up to 10 ha        III        42.0
Central       crops, manioc and subsistence    10-50 ha           IV         30.0
crops
3.  Tabuleiros   Field crops only, such as           up to 3 2/ ha   V        > 100.0
e Vales      tobacco, manioc, peanuts and
subsistence crops
Mainly fruit trees such as         up to 10 ha      VI         22.0
oranges, avocadoes, passion        10-50 ha         VII        29.0
fruit and other crops such         5.2 ha 3/        VIII       30.0
as tobacco, manioc and sub-
sistence crops.
1/   The high level of financial rates of return to farmers producing coconuts
reflects the importance of the improved production technologies to be
introduced in these farm types.
2/   Non-owner operator farm type.
3/   Colonization farm type.
Producer Income
8.04      As a result of the project, the estimated income from agricultural
activities could increase from a weighted average of about US$990 equivalent
per family before the project to about US$3,715 equivalent at full development
or within roughly eight to 12 years. All of the expected participants are
estimated to have incomes currently below the rural relative poverty cut-off
line in Brazil, that is, about US$330 per capita, or US$1,650 per family.
However, the income estimates cover only the principal activity of the farm
operation and represent averages by farm type and size; obviously, some
farmers in each type or size group will have incomes above the average. Also,
some of the smaller scale farmers in particular are likely to have some
additional income from share-cropping or renting or laboring on other farms,
mainly before the project and much less after project inception. It is likely
that because these additional incomes could not be measured and therefore were
not taken into consideration, the difference in estimated incomes between the
"before project" and "full development" situations and the financial rates of
return of the smaller scale farmers are overestimated. Furthermore, the
estimated income increases projected under the project could be underestimated
to the extent that the real debt service burden to the farmer would be deflated
since credit would not be indexed to offset inflation. It should be stressed
that the cases analyzed are purely illustrative examples used to help estimate
project costs and return.



- 34 -
8.05      "Before project" and "full development" income levels, including
the assumed value of family labor and value of on-farm consumption, are
summarized as follows:
Estimated Income         Expected Participants
Before   At Full
Sub-area     Farm Type         Project  Development    Number       % of Total
(US$ Equivalent Rounded)
Litoral               I              190        1,390         275            3.3
II           1,325       4,420         125            1.5
Cerrado Central       III            240        2,315         425            5.0
IV             730       4,235         155            1.8
Tabuleiros e Vales   V               640        1,855         830            9.9
VI           1,115       3,360       3,620           43.1
VII          1,370       5,415       1,570           18.7
VIII           665       4,595       1,400           16.7
Weighted Averages
and Total                            990        3,715       8,400          100.0
IX. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return for the project components was calculated,
taking into account the cost stream (para 9.02) and direct production benefits,
and has been estimated at about 27%. However, as various aspects of the
project, such as improved health and sanitation and education and training
components would have significant benefits which are not readily quantifiable
(para 9.06), no economic rate of return on these parts are calculated. The
details of the cost and benefit streams are given in Annex 9. Other details
of the economic analysis are available in the Project File.
9.02      The cost stream includes all on-farm investment and incremental
operating costs (based on the phased aggregate of the different types of
participants); the other project investment costs related directly to the
agricultural program; and a share of the continued operating costs (after the
five-year project execution period) of certain project-developed services
(such as extension and road maintenance) which would be necessary to sustain
the projected development. Overall, about 85% of total project costs were
included in the cost stream (Annex 9).
9.03      It should be noted that some of the project investments would have
significant benefits not measured by the incremental production of the 8,400
direct project participants. For example, the extension and research
activities are certain to have demonstration effects on other farmers in the



- 35 -
project area, particularly since the direct participants represent only a
part of the total farmers in the project area and are located in over 60
scattered communities, thereby multiplying the chances of diffusion of
successful new production techniques. Additionally, project roads could
be expected to benefit, not only other farmers, but also other economic
activity in the area and lead to better access to improved social services.
The roads would also have an impact on production by helping improve the
penetration of extension services, the farmers' access to credit and
production inputs, and, hence, the likelihood of adoption of improved
farming techniques. Perhaps more important, moreover, the roads would
assure improved access to markets (para 7.08).
9.04      An explicit effort was made in the rate of return analysis to reflect
these various circumstances. The benefit stream included all of the incremental
crop production of the project participants, such estimates being derived
from the aggregate of the phased incorporation into the project, over five
years, of the various participant farmers and phased increase in production
by the different types of participants. The prices used in the economic
analysis were based on projected farm-gate prices set to reflect, among
other things, the impact of project transport investments. These projected
farm-gate prices were compared to border prices (discounted to take into
account transport, handling and insurance costs) and were adjusted in the
case of oranges, peanuts, corn, tobacco and coffee. In the case of labor,
since there does not appear to be much underemployment in the project area,
particularly among beneficiary families, labor was not shadow priced. The
foreign exchange costs and benefits were adjusted upward by 30% to reflect
trade-distracting tariffs, subsidies, advance import deposits, export taxes
and quantitative restrictions. Of the products produced under the project,
Brazil is a net exporter of tobacco, peanuts, corn, citrus and coffee.
9.05      The estimated economic rate of return was found to be about 27%.
However, to measure the impact of possible changes in the economic environment
on the project's stream of costs and benefits, several sensivity tests were
made, the results of which are as follows:
Internal Economic Rate of Return
(%)
Best Estimate:            27      Costs up by 20% and
Cost up by 20%            24        benefits down by 20%:                  21
Benefit down by 20%:       24     Delay of one year in farmers'
Cost up by 10% and                  participation:                         24
benefit down by 20%    22       Inclusion of demonstration benefits:  29
This high value of the best estimate of the internal rate of return is explained
by the high level of export earnings of the project.  Brazil is a net exporter
of corn, peanuts, tobacco, oranges and coffee and it is expected that in
the years of project maturity the incremental annual value of these products
will be about 74% of the total incremental product value of the entire project
area. On the other hand, the foreign exchange component of all project inputs
is relatively small. The magnitude of the effect of the shadow rate on the



- 36 -
internal economic rate of return is noticed when compared to the internal
economic rate of return calculated with only domestic prices of inputs and
benefits; it would then be 19% (about 8% lower than the best estimated
when shadow prices were used). Even if costs were increased and benefits were
reduced, each by 20%, the level of the internal economic rate of return is at
an acceptable level of 22%. The results are highly improved in the last
sensitivity test, where demonstration benefits were included and added to the
direct project benefits. Here, an assumed incremental production, derived
indirectly from demonstration effects and use of the project-improved services
and infrastructure by farmers other than the "direct participants," were taken
into account. This indirect benefit was conservatively estimated as beginning
only in the third year of project execution and being equivalent to about a
3% increase annually, accumulating for a total of five years but stabilizing
thereafter. Hence, by year 7 and from year 7 onward, it was assumed that the
indirect production benefits would be equivalent to roughly 15% of that of
the 8,400 direct participants (e.g., equivalent to another 1,250 to 1,500
full participants).
9.06      In addition to direct benefits accruing to the 8,400 project parti-
cipants and to demonstration benefits (para 9.05), the benefits of the social
infrastructure components (education and training and health and sanitation
services) which would have a wide coverage and which would accrue to some
65,000 of the rural population living in the micro-regions selected for
project activities are difficult to quantify. However, it can be assumed that
the training activities would play a significant part, not only in helping
achieve the project production targets, but also in improving the income
prospects and social welfare of the area's population. With respect to the
improved health and sanitation services, it is apparent that they too will
contribute to social welfare as well as be highly complementary to the directly
productive investments of the project.
Employment
9.07      The expected expansion of agricultural activities by the 8,400 par-
ticipating farmers should increase family employment and improve subsistence
as well as increase cash revenue from marketed production. Taking into
account the proposed development pattern, the project should generate increased
agricultural employment opportunities equivalent to some 6,800 worker-years
annually. Of this amount, about 99% would be met by family labor.
Project Risks
9.08      Timely implementation of a wide variety of investments and activities
in various sectors by numerous agencies is a prerequisite for project success.
The risk of not achieving adequate coordination and active participation should
however, be lessened by the arrangements being made by the state to use exist-
ing agencies for project implementation, to involve directly high level
officials of the principal participating agencies in the state's POLONORDESTE
Management Council and to establish a special Project Administration Unit.
Another type of risk lies in the fact that the experience of the participating
agencies (such as extension services and banks) in carrying out programs



- 37 -
directed specifically and intensively at small-scale farmers are relatively
recent. Hence, it is possible that, for example, the steps proposed to
achieve greater extension and credit coverage would not prove to be fully
appropriate. The preparation and review of detailed annual work plans with
each participating agency and the carrying out of project monitoring and
evaluation should help resolve problems which might arise in this regard.
There is also a price risk on the high value crops included in the agri-
cultural development plan devised for the project area as there is a possi-
bility that some products might encounter marketing problems. There is
also, for some crops, the additional risk that expected yields (and hence
expected producers' incomes) would not be attained because of unusually
adverse natural conditions or unforeseen technical problems. However, the
highly diversified agricultural plans, the various alternative farm types, the
project experimentation and extension services, and the marketing arrangements
made should help alleviate risks and resolve problems of these types. Overall,
the potential of the project to benefit some 65,000 lower income people with
its directly productive components, as well as with improved health or education
services, and the steps being taken to strengthen the project-execution capacity
of executing institutions make the risks acceptable.
Fiscal Impact
9.09      According to existing Government agricultural development policies,
low-income farmers are not expected to pay for investment costs in agricultural
services or social infrastructure, though villages often do contribute to the
maintenance of such facilities once infrastructure is developed. The costs of
the roads are recovered indirectly through various taxes and licence fees on
road users. The majority of project costs--i.e., on-farm development, land
purchase, land clearing and development for the colonization schemes, which
combined amount for more than 50% of project costs--would be recovered from
farmers through the credit system. The extent to which these costs will
be recovered in real terms is difficult to estimate because of the current
inflationary environment in Brazil and the Government's policy of providing
unindexed agricultural credit. Assuming a continuing inflation rate somewhat
similar to the average of the last three years, 1/ real recovery of on-farm
project costs could well be low. Although the increased production of the
beneficiaries of the project would probably enable them to bear the burden of
positive real interest rates for credit received, the Government has so far
chosen, particularly in view of the relatively low incomes of the target
beneficiaries for programs such as POLONORDESTE, to maintain a considerable
subsidy element in the agricultural credit component. On the other hand,
either a more rapid decline in inflation and/or a continuation of the gradual
reduction in the size of agricultural credit subsidies--linked to a gradual
dismantling of control over agricultural prices--would result in higher real
cost recovery.
1/   Annual average, 41.6%.



- 38 -
9.10      Following the project disbursement period, project investments would
give rise to additional recurrent costs to the Government in the order of
about US$2.1 million per annum. These expenses would be incurred principally
for agricultural extension and experimentation, but would aso include some
residual project administration costs as well as the continued operating costs
of the improved health system and the training and formal education facilities.
The additional recurrent expenditures are expected, however, to be totally
offset by additional revenues of roughly US$3.0 million annually generated as
a result of a value added tax, the Levy on Products Circulation (ICM), the
Assistance Fund for Rural Workers (FUNRURAL) and the Rural Land Levy (ITR)
taxes, which would apply to incremental production from direct participants in
the agricultural components of the project.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were received from the Federal
Government that:
(a)  it would maintain agreements with participating banks to continue
active collaboration in the execution of the project; it would
make funds available for the credit component (including land
purchase and rotating marketing funds); project credit would
be lent under POLONORDESTE terms and conditions and the Govern-
ment would advise the Bank promptly of any changes in such
lending terms (paras 4.15, 4.17, and 4.32);
(b)  consultants for assisting in the engineering design and super-
vision of feeder roads (para 4.28), the health and sanitation,
the education and training, and the project administration and
evaluation components would be contracted on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (paras 4.22, 4.23, 4.30, 6.05, and 6.10);
(c)  by December 31, 1979, the Bank would be provided, for approval,
detailed proposals for executing the health and sanitation
component (para 4.25);
(d)  project feeder roads would be constructed according to
design specifications agreed with the Bank (para 4.26);
(e)  it would provide adequate funding to assure timely and effective
execution of the project and adequate operation and maintenance
of the facilities and services developed under the project
(para 5.02);
(f)  by November 30 each year, it would provide the Bank for review
and comment, the project work program for the following year
and would assure timely review of the plan by the regional
POLONORDESTE group, and that the Bank would be advised of the
approved plan by January 31 each year (para 6.06);



- 39 -
(g) it would provide the Bank with quarterly project progress reports,
a mid-project evaluation report and a project completion report
(paras 6.04 and 6.09); and
(h) it would provide appropriate periodic audit statements satis-
factory to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal
year (para 6.11);
10.02     During negotiations, assurances were received from the Government
of Sergipe that:
(a) by November 30, 1979 an overall agricultural experimentation
plan should be submitted to the Bank for comments (para 4.09);
(b) by November 30, 1979, a detailed plan of operation for the first
year for the land surveying and titling services would be prepared
and submitted to the Bank (para 4.11);
(c) by December 31, 1979, a credit statistics and monitoring system
would be set up by the Project Administration Unit and the Project
Evaluation Unit would, on a yearly basis evaluate the implementa-
tion of the credit component (para 4.15);
(d) by December 31, 1979, the organizational arrangements of the
Colonization Coordination Units to be established in the coopera-
tive societies, including the qualification of personnel, their
duties, responsibilities and work procedures, would be submitted
to the Bank (para 4.19);
(e) SEC would select the coordinators of the CLCs before initiating
the construction of these centers (para 4.22);
(f) by November 30 each year, SEC would send to the Bank for approval,
the site plans for the schools to be built in each respective
year, including the justification for the location according
to the agreed criteria (para 4.22);
(g) by March 31, 1980, SEC would submit to the Bank an acceptable
final draft of the revised primary curriculum and training
for introduction of new curriculum; and the curriculum and
an acceptable plan for the implementation of the accelerated
program (para 4.22);
(h) all roads maintenance equipment procured under the project
would be run and maintained by DER-SE and used solely for
maintenance of municipal roads in the project area (para 4.27);
(i) three collector roads would be built by December 31, 1981
(para 4.28);
(j) a study indicating equipment, personnel and funds requirements
for DER-SE and the municipalities for maintaining municipal roads
in the project area would be prepared and furnished to the Bank
by November 30, 1979 (para 4.28);



- 40 -
(k) a program to strengthen the capacity of DER-SE to maintain all
roads and highways, to provide maintenance assistance to munici-
palities and to support highway policing and vehicle weight control
on state roads and highways would be prepared and furnished to the
Bank by December 31, 1981 (para 4.28);
(1) an agreement would be signed with the Brazilian Food Company
(COBAL) allowing the State Supply Company (CEASA) to contract
the construction and operate, maintain and finance operating
costs of the satellite producers' market (para 4.29);
(m)  a program geared toward improving cooperative societies member
accounts and reporting systems would be developed by M4arch 31,
1980 (para 4.33);
(n) it would arrange for timely acquisition and necessary financing
of any additional land or rights-of-way needed for project works
(para 5.02);
(o) it would adequately maintain the Project Administration and
support the other state agencies participating in the project
(para 6.01);
(p) it would provide the Bank, for review and comment, the details
of monitoring/data analysis and farm survey plans prior to
their implementation (paras 6.04 and 6.05);
(q)  it would enter into and maintain all such special agreements
as are necessary to assure full and active cooperation of the
various agencies participating in the colonization, health and
sanitation, education and training and marketing facilities
components (para 6.07).
(r) it would maintain the Project Evaluation Unit after project
completion and until its f'unctions are assumed by SUDAP
(para 6.09);
(s) it would provide the Bank with the detailed project and
components evaluation work programs by December 31, 1979
(para 6.10); and
(t)  a special commission would be created by December 31, 1979 by
SUDAP and would enter into and maintain any special agreements
necessary to assure implementation of the program of inspection
of fruit sapling production and pest control coordination in
the project area (para 7.0)1).



- 41 -
10.03     Conditions of disbursement for the health and sanitation component
would be the presentation to the Bank and it approval of detailed proposals
for executing this component (para 4.25); for the feeder and access roads
component, the contracting of two specialized engineers (para 4.28); and for
the education and training component, the contracting of additional personnel
for the Planning Department and the provision to the Bank of satisfactory
evidence of the acquisition of the respective sites (para 4.22). Conditions
of disbursement for the colonization, education and training, health and
sanitation and marketing facilities components would also be the provision
to the Bank of the agreements between the state and agencies participating
in the respective component (paras 4.18, 4.22, 4.25, and 4.29).
10.04     With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$26.0 million for a term of 15 years with a grace period
of three years.
May 15, 1979



-42 -
ANNEX 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Design Standards for Municipal Roads
A               B                   C
Approximate traffic levels                Over 40 v.p.d.    20-40 v.p.d.   Up to 20 v.p.d.
Pavement width 1/                             6.00 m             5.00 m         4.50 m 2/
Maximumi gradient 3/                         12% (14%)         12% (14%)      12% (14%)
Desirable maximum gradient length             300 m              300 m          300 m
Cross-slope and maximum super-elevation       5%                  5%            5%
Gravel thickness                            0.15 m               0.10 m         Spot
Minimum curve radius                      50 m (30 m)        30 m (25 m)        None
Minimum sight stopping distance           70 m (50 m)              40 m          40 m
Minimum culvert diameter                     0.80 m              0.80 m        0.80 m
Bridge characteristics                    Single lane        Single lane    Single lane
Bridge design loading                      Class 36           Class 36        Class 36
ANNEX 2
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
List of Collector Roads Planned Parallel to Project
LENGTH
ROAD                         LOCATION                       Km
SE 426                 BR101 - Tomar do Geru                15.0
SE 310                Tomar do Geru - Itabanianinha         12.0
EV-S/N                 BR101 - Agrovila                     14.0
1/ Net of widening in curves, and gutters.
2/ Maximum width; passing bays are to be- provided where needed.
3/ Figures in brackets indicate absolute limits which may be used in exceptional
cases. For grades steeper than 8% special attention shall be given to drainage
and surfacing.
SOURCE: DER-SE and mission.
September 1978.



-43-
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABUEIROS SUL                     ANNEX 3
Annual Phasing of Project Costs
(U.S.$ 000) -
Baseline Foreign
I/                                                        Costs  Exchange
1.  Agricultural Services              Year 1   Year II   Year III  Year IV    Year V  Total            Co ts xch
Extension                             419       603         854     1,030      1,127    4,033        6.8    12
Experimentation                      141         95          95         88         82      501       0.9    10
Land Titling and Surveying            99        147        339         269        367    1.221       2.1    12
Subtotal                           659        845      1,288      1.387      1,576    5,755        9.8    12
2.  Credit
Investment Credit                  1,396      2,629      4,387      5,546      5,829   19,787       33.6    1S
Inc. Working Capital Credit          -          -          882      2.707      1.910    5.499        9.3    15
Land Clearing, On-farm develop-
ment (including housing and
storage)                            380        569      1,138      1,138      1,200    4,425        7.5    35
Subtotal                        1,776      3,198      6,407      9,391      8,939   29,711       50.4    18
3. Colonization
Land Purchase                        653        821      1,510      1,478      1,511    5,973       10.1      -
Planning & Implementation            228        292        373        367         74    1,334        2.3    15
Subtotal                          881      1,113      1,883      1,845      1,585    7,307       12.4     3
4. Social Infrastructure
Education & Vocational Train.        340        833        679        492        418    2,762       4.7      1S
Health and Sanitation                 36        356        372        353        156    1,273       2.2      15
Subtotal                           376      1,189      1,051        845        574    4,035       6.9      15
5. Physical Infrastructure
Feeder & Access Roads              1,810      2,050      2,530      2,420      1,240   10,050    17.1        33
Marketing Facilities                 -          220        -         -          -          220      0.4      20
Subtotal                         1,810      2,270      2,530      2,420      1,240   10,270    17.5       33
6. Project Management
Adminis. & Monitoring                311        278         277        277        277    1,420      2.4      10
Evaluation & Studies                  76         76         76          76        76       380      0.6      10
Subtotal                           387        354        353        353        353    1,800       3.0     10
Total Baseline Costs 2/            5,889      8,969    13,512    16,241    14,267   58,878          100      18
Physical Contingencies 3/            420        609         794        764       603    3.190       5.4      18
Prices Contingencies 4R_             421      1,105      2,677      4,532      5,215   13,950    23.7        18
Subtotal                          841      1,714      3,471      5,296      5,818   17,140    29.1       18
Total Project Costs                6,730    10,6S3    16,983    21,537   20,085   76,018   129.1             18
1/ Year 1 of the project, for purposes of these cost estimates, corresponds to the full 1979 fiscal year
of POLONORDESTE (April 1, 1979, March 31, 1980), with each subsequent project year corresponding to
the respective POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
2/ In prices at the time of appraisal (September 1978) converted to USS at the rate of Cr$18.75 - US$1.0.
3/ Physical contingencies of 7% were added to the agricultural extension and experimentation, land titling,
marketing facilities, and project administration components; 10% to colonization, feeder roads, and
education components; and 15% to the health and sanitation component.  The physical contingencies were
established to reflect, by component, the extent to which adjustments may prove necessary in physical
quantities.
4/ Price contingencies calculated in US$ terms as follows:  for civil works, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% per year
thereafter; for equipment, 6_5% in 1979 and 6% per year thereafter; for other materials and supplies,
credit, salaries, etc., 7% in 1979 and per year thereafter.



-44-                              ANNEX 4
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Cumulative
Quarter       Disbursed           Amount       Balance of
Bank Fiscal Year        Ending    During Quarter        Disbursed         Loan
1980             Sept. 30           0.0               0.0            26.0
Dec. 31            0.0              0.0            26.0
March 31           0.5              0.5            25.5
June 30           0.3               0.8            25.2
1981             Sept. 30           0.4               1.2            24.8
Dec. 31            0.4              1.6            24.4
March 31           0.8              2.4            23.6
June 30            0.8              3.2            22.8
1982             Sept. 30           0.9               4.1            21.9
Dec. 31            1.0              5.1            20.9
March 31           1.3              6.4            19.6
June 30           1.4               7.8            18.2
1983             Sept. 30           1.6               9.4           16.6
Dec. 31            1.6             11.0            15.0
March 31           1.9             12.9            13.1
June 30           1.9              14.8            11.2
1984             Sept. 30           2.0               16.8            9.2
Dec. 31            2.0              18.8            7.2
March 31           1.8              20.6            5.4
June 30            1.8              22.4            3.6
1985              Sept. 30           1.8              24.2            1.8
Dec. 31            1.8              26.0            0.0



-45-
ANNEX 5
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RUPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Main Collaborating
Component                              Executing Agencies              Agency
1. Agricultural Development
Agricultural Extension            E2fATER-SE
Agricultural Experimentation    SUDAP                            EMBRAPA
2. Production Support
Agricultural Credit               BB, BNB, BNCC                 EMATER-SE
Land Surveying and Titling        SUDAP
Marketizg Facilities              CEASA, -OBAL
3.  Colonization
Planning                          CEPA-SE                        INCRA, SUDAP
Implementation                    COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES         EMATER-SE
4. Social Infrastructure
Education and Training            SEC, EMSETUR, SENAC, MEB    MUNICIPALITIES
Health and Sanitation             SES, DESO                     EMATER-SE
5. Physical Infrastructure
Feeder and Access Roads           DER-SE                        MLNICIPALITIES
6. Project Administration
Administration and Monitoring   PAU in SUDAP
Evaluation                        EVALUATION UNIT in
CEPA-SE
Note: A glossary of abbreviations and acronyms is provided inside the
front cover of this report.



ANNEX 6
NORTHEAST 8R1\;: L
SERG(;IPE RURA T)EVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Or:;inization Chart gf Project Admriinfittration Unit
S U D A P
EVALUATION UNIT    ,           POLONORDESTE
| ADMINISTRATIVE       L   PROJECT ADM INISTRATION    >  FIELD COORDINATOR
|  SERVICES                     OFFIfCE                            
MONITORING    [AGRICULTURAL   PRODUCTION          SOCIAL          PHYSICAL
PLANNING         SEVICES        SUPPORT          INFRA.          _INFRA_
Monitoring,    Agric. Ex-    Land Tit -          Education       Roads,
Long Term       tcnsion,        ling, Mar-       & Training      Electrif.
Planning &    Credit,           keting,          Health &        & Marketing
Special         Input           Coloniza-        Sanitatiot    Facilities
Studies         Supply and      tion   and
Experimen-      Coop. Dev.
j   .                                                  ,ationC
CY%



-47-
AMNEX 7
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS
Implementation Schedule
rROJECT liEAR
COMPONFNT/LCT__VITY                                  '                                 t!       _  IV            v
1.  ACRICULTURAL SERVICES
AGRlCU1.'.1FAL EXTFNSloON_
- Provision of extension services
- Training of extension agents
and farmers
Aericultvlral Experiwcntation                                                             _
Expertriomtation_
- EstaDliShment of observation
site6 on farmers lands
Land Surveying and Tileing
- Establishument of field and
central units                                                                         _
- Surveying and granting of titles
3.    Colonizatlon
- Land Purchase                                                                      _ 
- Plannir.g and implementation
2.    Credit
- Provision of investmenit and
scasonal credit for on-fan--
d evelopment
- Provision of land purchase credit             _              _
6.    SOCIAL I NFRASTPUCTURE
Education I Vocational Training
- Construction and equipping of
schoels and CLC's                            _    =
- Development_of curricutlum
- Training and upgrading of personnel                                                                  _
- Studies
Health and Sonitation
- Upgrading and construction of
physical infrastructure
- Training of personnel
5.    PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
_arketing Facilities
- Establishment of satellite market
- Provision of marketing services
Roads
- Planning
- Building and constructing                                           _                        _
6.    PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Project Administration
- Setting up of adninistration unit
- Supervision and monitoring of
irplewen tation
- Carrying out of planning and
monitoring of studi'a
Pro!i _LE%valust ion
- Carrying out of cvgluatlon  ututdies
- Carrylrg out of mid-term anxd poat-
ploject cvall:tion



-48-                           ANNEX 8
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Technical Coefficients and Illustrative Farm Models
l.       The eight different representative t:arm models devised for the Tabuleiros
Sui project may be broadly assigned to three main groups: (i) four coconut growing
farm types; (ii) one field crop farm type; and (iii) three fruit trees growing
farm types. Recommendations on production techniques for the eight farm types
aforementioned for each of the major crops have been prepared, including citrus,
coconuts, guava, papaya, passion fruit, pineapple, avocado, mango, banana, manioc,
corn, peanuts, beans and tobacco. Details of the production input and yield
assumptions for the various crops are available in the Project File in a Supple-
mentary Staff Working Paper (No. 11 Agricultural Development and Production
Technology) and a orolect preparation document "Desenvolvimento Agricola".
These assumptions which are viewed as preliminary averages (see summary in Table 1),
are based on the best available data from local farm surveys, experimentation
results and extensionists' observations of productive farmers' practices.
During project implementation, these recommendations would be improved on the basis
of project experimentation results. In addition, efforts will be made to improve
gradually the selection of crop combinations and the production techniques
(including plant spacing, the timing of sowing and harvesting, as well as selection
of varieties and inputs). Also, since a wide variety of crops are likely to be
grown, a considerable flexibility will have to be retained regarding the eight
illustrative farm types selected and the relative importance of each crop.
2.       Here it is worth mentioning that in order to achieve yield increases it
is very important to use high quality saplings and avoid bringing infested plants
from other regions. It was therefore found necessary to establish a program of
inspection of budwood, and saplings' production in the project area. On the
other hand, efficient pest control, especially in plantations, is reached easier
when the growers in the same area unite to control existing pests. This is
particularly important for certain pests (like fruit flies), which are difficult
to control, and which may effect heavily the citrus and other plantations of the
project area. It was therefore agreed that SUDAP would create before December 31,
1979, a special commission which will supervise, in agreement with the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture, the quality of budwood as well as the production of
sapplings in the project area. This commission will also coordinate the efforts,
and assist the cooDeratives in establishing a regional pest control program for
fruit trees.
3.       The financial rate of return as well as the debt service and cash flow pro-
jections of three representative farm types are given in the following. Farm Type Two,
represents the coconut growing farms, has presently about 10.8 ha of cropped area
(10.4 ha area under cultivation), and would eventually reach 13.8 ha of cropped area
on 13.0 ha under cultivation. Farm Type Six, represents the citrus growing farm
types, has presently about 2.6 ha of cropped area (2.2 ha under cultivation), and
would eventually reach about 4.1 ha of cropped area on 3.8 ha under cultivation.
Farm Type Eight, was devised for thecolQnization schemes, will have an area of
about 5.2 ha of which 4.1 ha would be under cultivation, thus reaching a cropped area
of 4.5 ha in year five of implementation.



i4u.::: - l;iAZIL
U-ILU; i jlJUL bYDLa.4JT LIJ.. - _ TAdULlID i SUL.
Present and ProJected Input end Output Coefficient. Per Hectar.
Coconuts       P3s.ioq Fruit    .vocadoes            Oranges           Coffee           Manioc         Peanuts           Beans             Corn           Tobacco
Pr.-    Full    Pr.-      Ful    Pr,-    Full    Pro-    Full    Pr.-    Full    Pr.-    Full   Pre-    Full    Pre-    Full    Pra-    Full    Pre-    Ful
I__                 Unit           1o Dev          Proj.    Dea      Proj    0 D..    Proj    Dev      Proj    Do.    Proj    Dae    Proj    De.    Proj.   DOT.    Proj.   Dev.    Proj.   rov.
Labor                   Xandays           45      57       53        75      --       75      79       96      __       78      60       70     41       44      32       40      25       41     118      134
Se.o            _         Kg.      _      -       --        -       --       -        -                                -30    .30                                                 25       25       1        1
Cut:nges                100Nuo±ts       4_4_        -        -       --      --       --      --1 _--                                                                                    --       --       --
Urva                      Kg.             20     100      100      150       __      300     100      300      --      350      --      100     20       70      18       40      --       65       Bo      dO
Supe#rPospbate            Kg.             --     200      200      400       --      200     100      250      --      200      --      200     50      150      21       50      --      100      180     180
Potasui=a Chloride        Kg.             30    110        75      100       __      150      70      170      __      250      --       75     15       40      10       20      --       30     140       a0
Dol2mits                  Kg.            250     500       --      250       -_       __     200      400      --      400      _       400     --       -                        --      --                 -
MA.0 *                    Kg.             --     500       --       --       --               - -      --      --       --      --       --    ---       --500                                            7,0
Fngicides               kg/l               1       4        2        2       -         3       1        3      -         2      _-       --      1        1       --      -        -      -          1       1         >
Lone,ticidse            Kg/l               2       3        8       12       --       11      10       20      --        4       5       14       2       2       --       3       -        2        2       2
Ferbicides              Kg/l             --       --        2         2      -         3      --        3      --        2      __       --     --        1      -_       -- _     _                 1       1
Farm F.AchineryW.       Hour               2      15       --        --                        5       15                6      __        6      --       7       -        4       --      --       --       7
Sacxc/aox              Vunit             --        --      50        50       --     200      100     200     -_        20       --      --      12      24        8       8       __      20       --      -
yield 2I                Ton            0.65      2.41      4.0      7.0       --    12.0      8.0    17.3       --      1.2     9.6     16..8   1.0     2.0      0.4     O.8      0.7     2.0      1.0     1.1S
1/ f3tassium Sulphate.
i/  !.% new plantations, at 1ull developmnt--labor 114 sAndeYg Nuperpboepbat*, 300 K;  potassium cbloride, 200 4g) fuAgioidee, 6 kg; and 225 boxes.
j/ f.Id (as inputs, will gradually reb a full developent leveis over a period of fiva ear
;*I.ghb%ed avera3es  at-meen existing and now plantations.
2/ decl .ed avera2as betweea the Litoral and Tabuoliros a Vales subareas.
OQ  OIZ
I 0



-50-
ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 1
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Farm Type Two
Cropping Pattern
(ha)
DEVELOPMENT YEARS
CROPS              Base Year   1         2        3       4      5-25
Coconuts    01oi        0      0.5      0.5     0.5      1.0      1.0
Manioc                1.5      1.75    2.0       2.25    2.5      2.5
Peanuts 2/            0.4      0.4      0.6     0.8      1.0      1.0
Beans   2/            0.2      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3
Corn    2/            0.2      0.3      0.4     0.5      0.5      0.5
3/
Coconuts    03-       8.5      8.5      8.5     8.5      8.5      8.5
Total Cropped
Area 4/            10.8    11.75   12.3    12.85   13.8    13.8
1/ New plantations to be introduced under the project.
2/ Crops grown in consortia.
3/ Existing plantations. -
4/ Cropped area is higher than area under cultivation due to consortium.



BRAZIL-NORlhEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAI. FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE TWO
(IN CR$)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR ---------------_---------------------
1978     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983     1988     1993     1998    2003
(BASE YR)
----------------------------------------------------------------------  __---- __- _- _- _ _--- - - _- _- _ _-_- _ __-_ __-_ __ __ _ _ _ _ ___-_ -----
WITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                              34,315   35,798   37,281   38,764   40,247   41,731   41,731   41,731   41,731   41,731
G TOTAL INFLOW                               34,315   35,798   37,281   38,764   40,247   41,731   41,731   41,731   41,731   41,731
-   ON-FADM CONSUMPTION                     6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,8a5.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7
NET INFLOW                                 27,429   28,912   30,396   31,879   33,362   34,845   34,845   34,845   34,845   34,845
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                  9,121.7  9,123.4  9,125.2  9,126.9  9,128.7  9,130.4  9,130.4  9,130.4  9,130.4  9,130.4
HIRED LABOR COST                         390.00   390.00   390.00   390.00  390.00   390.00   390.00  390.00  390.00  390.00
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                             9,511.7  9,513.4  9,515.2  9,516.9  9,518.7  9,520.4  9,520.4  9,520.4  9,520.4  9,520.4
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                         17,918   19,399   20,880   22,362   23,843   25,324   25,324   25,324   25,324  25,324
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                     6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                    6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST             24,625   24,625   24,625   24,625   24,625   24,625   24,625   24,625   24,625  24,625
* NET FARM BENEFIT                            178.4  1,659.7  3,141.1  4,622.4  6,103.8  7,585.2  7,585.2  7,585.2  7,585.2  7,585.2,
E   T   m
**CONTINUED* TABLE  FBG.004                                  11/13/78  21:38:48



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE TWO
(IN CR$)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR -------------____-_-____------
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1988     1993      1998      2003
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                                  34,315   45,233   62,846   82,816   97,793  107,014  125,23B  128,813  123,813  128,813
= TOTAL INFLCW                                   34,315   45,233   62,846   82,816   97,793  107,014  125,238  128,813  128,813  128,813
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  7,616.9  7,616.9  7,616.9  7,616.9
* NET INFLOW                                     27,429   38,348   55,961   75,930   90,908  100,129  117,621  121,196  121,196  121,196
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      9,121,7   33,608   34,361   38,168   36,813   36,981   41,881   41,881   41,881   41,881
HIRED LABOR COST                              390.0    412.5    700.0  1,277.5  2,200.0  2,275.0  4,000.0  4,000.0  4,000.0  4,000.0
INVESTMENTS                                      .0  8,602.0  5,785.0  5,785.0  8,260.0  5,440.0             .0       .0        .0        .0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 9,511.7   42,623   40,846   45,231   47,273   44,696   45,881   45,881   45,881   45,881
u NET FARM CASH FLOW                             17,918   -4,275   15,115   30,699   43,635   55,433   71,740   75,315   75,315   75,315
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  7,616.9  7,616.9  7,616.9  7,616.9
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  6,885.7  7,616.9  7,616.9  7,616.9  7,616.9
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                 24,625   26,163   26,800   28,703   29,400   29,425   30,550   30,550   30,550   30,550
* NET FARM BENEFIT                                178.4  -23,552   -4,800    8,882   21,121   32,893   48,807   52,382   52,382   52,382
tD>1
**CONTINUED* TABLE  FBG.005                                        11/13/78  21:34:26
A                                                                            C



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE TWO
(IN CR$)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR --------_______-_-______-_
1978    1979      1980     1981     1982     1983     1988     1993     1998    2003
(BASE YR)
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--____- --- ---------------- - ---------------- - -----
INCREMENTAL
GROSS VALUE                                   0   9,435   25,565   44,051   57.546   65,284   83,507   87,082   87,082   67,082
=     TOTAL  INFLOW                               0    9,435   25,565   44,051   57,546  65,284   83,507  87,082   87,082  87,082
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         .00      .00      .00      .00      .00      .00  731.25   731.25   731.25   731.25
NET INFLOW                                      0    9,435   25,565   44,051   57,546  65,284   82,776   86,351   86,351   86,351
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                        0  24,485   25,236   29,041   27,684  27,850   32,750   32,750   32,750   32,750
HIRED LABOR COST                             .0    22.5    310.0    887.5  1,810.0  1,885.0  3,610.0  3,610.0  3,610.0  3,610.0
INVESTMENTS                                  .0  8,602.0  5,785.0  5,785.0  8,260.0  5,440.0       .0       .0       .0       .0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                   0  33,109   31,331   35,714   37,754   35,175   36,360   36,360   36,360   36,360
5 NET FARM CASH FLOW                              0 -23,674   -5,766    8,337   19,792  30,108   46,415   49,990   49,990   49,990
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         .00      .00      .00      .00      .00      .00  731.25   731.25   731.25   731.25
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        .00      .00      .00      .00      .00      .00  731.25   731.25   731.25   731.25
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                 .0  1,537.5  2,175.0  4,077.5  4,775.0  4,800.0  5,925.0  5,925.0  5,925.0  5,925.0
= NET FARM BENEFIT                                0 -25,211   -7,941    4,260   15,017  25,308   41,222   44,797   44,797  44,797
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    10.00 % EQUALS    239 THOUSAND CRS
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    15.00 % EQUALS    140 THOUSAND CR$
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    20.00 % EQUALS  85253 CR$
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 45.56 %.
-----_-___----------------------------------__----------- ---------- ------ 
TABLE  FBG.006                                  11/13/78  21:34:26



NURTHFEA:i  BRAZIL
SERGiIPE RURAL DELVELOFMENT FROJELT-1ABULEIROS
FARM 7YF'LE !'WO
DEB'1i SERVICE AN!' CASH FLOW PROJEC:TION
(IN CR$000)
___  _  ____-----------------EA---------------------------------------------
0         1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10        12
- --.- . ---..±.       ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   - -- - - ----   -- - - ----   - - - - -- - - - - ----
(I)   CASH INFLOW:
I  VALUE OF PRODLJL.IION                    27.4       38.3      55.9      76.0      90.9    100.1    106.6    113.2    114.7    115-3    117.6    1'20.5
2  INV9f'SMENT LOAN    (100% OF 5)              0       El.6      5.8       5.8       8.3       5.4       5.4       2.7       2.7       2.7          0         0
3  SHOUT TERM LCAN                  (6)   .  9.5       34.0      35.1      39.4      39.0      39.3      39.3      39.3      45.9      45.9      45.9      45.9
4    ro.1AL INFLOW             (1+243)       36.9      81.0      96.7    121.2    138.2    144.8    151.3   *155.1    163.2    163.9    163.5    166.4
wII1)   A':A:11 OUFFLOW:
'  lNV1L1MENl C(I':l                            0       t.6       5.8       5.8       8.3       5.4       5.4       2.7       2.7       2.7          0         0
6  OPE(-ArING COST                            9.5      34.0      35.1      39.4      39.0      39.3      39.3      39.3      45.9      45.9      45.9      45.9             1
/    I'IAL OUTFLOW                (516)       9.5      42.6      40.8      45.2      47.3      44.7      44.7      41.9      48.5      48.5      45.9      45.9
(III) NET CASH FLOW:
U   NC! CeASH F'LOW              (4-7)      27.4      38.3      55.9      76.0      90.9    100.1    106.6    113.2    114.7    115.3    117.6    120.5
(IV)  DLIEr SERVICLS:-
I9  IDOV ST. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.                 0         0         0         0         0        .8      1.3       2.0       2.9        3.7       4.S       5.9
10 lN';ESlthNTr L8AN £tlIE,'iESI                0        .4       1.1       1.7       2.4       3.1       3.6       3.9       3.9       3.9        3.7       2.7
'11 SHl!:T TERM I?.ON III rEST                 .4       1.3       1.3       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.7        1.7       1.7       1.7
12 SH0,!1T-T1. LOAN FRINCIIAL  PM'T.          9.5      34.0      35.1      39.4      39.0      39.3      39.3      39.3      45.9      45-9      45.9      45.9
1.3   rfAAL DEeDf SRlVICE (9 10 12)           9.9      35.7      37.5      42.7      42.9      44.6      45.6      46.5      54.4      55.2      55.8      56.2
(V!)    CASH EBIALA4CE:
11  CAS8 BFILANCE               (8-13)       17.6       2.6      18.4      33.3      48.0      55.5      61.0      66.6      60.3      60.2      61.9      64.3   @-
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Farm Type Six
Cropping Pattern
(ha)
DEVELOPMENT YEARS_
CROPS                 Base Year   1       2      3       4    5-25
Oranges          01  1     .      0.0    0.0    0.5    0.5   0).5
Avocadoes                 0.0    0.0    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Oianioc                   0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3
Dassion Fruit             0.21   0.4    0.4    0.5   0).5    0.5
Peanuts 2/                0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3
Tobacco                   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Beans  2/                 0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1
Corn   2/0.2    1.1    1.4    1.6    1.4    0.7.1!
Coffee                    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4
Oranges                   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0 7-
Total Cropped Area-/    2.t6    3.6    4.6    5.5    5.2    4.6
1/ New orange groves to be introduced under the project.
2/ Crops grown in consortia
3/ Grown partly as intercropping in new plantations, area will be
reduced gradually and reach 0.2 ha at full development of plantations.
4/ Existing orange groves.
5/ Cropped area is higher than area under cultivation due to inter-
cropping and consortium.
(D F-~ M
LOx



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE SIX
(IN CR$)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------  CALENDAR  --------------_-___________     - --------
1978    1979     1980     1981      1982    1983      1988    1993      1998    2003
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                              28,215   29,449   30,683   31,917   33,152   34,386   34,386  34,386   34,386   34,386
* TOTAL INFLOW                               28,215   29,449   30,683   31,917   33,152   34,386   34,386  34,386   34,386   34,386
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                      8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3
* NET INFLOW                                 19,353   20,587  21,821   23,055   24,289  25',523   25,523  25,523   25,523   25,523
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                  7,299.5  7,301.2  7,396.7  7,492.2  7,587.7  7,683.2  7,683.2  7,683.2  7,683.2  7,683.2
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                             7,299.5  7,301.2  7,396.7  7,492.2  7,587.7  7,683.2  7,683.2  7,683.2  7,683.2  7,683.2
3 NET FARM CASH FLOW                         12,053   13,286   14,424   15,563   16,702   17,840   17,840   17,840   17,840   17,840
ON-FARlii CONSUMPTION                   8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3   L
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                    8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3  8,862.3   l
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST            9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0  9,405.0
* NET FARM BENEFIT                           11,510   12,743   13,882   15,020   16,159   17,298   17,298   17,298   17,298   17,298
011
----------------------------------------- - -------------------------------____-- __--------- - ---------------- - ---------- - ---- - ---___
**CONTINUED* TABLE  FBG.016                                  11/13/78  21:38:48
1o      S                                            



BRAZI L-NORTHZAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE SIX
(IN CRS)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR --------------
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1988     1993      1998      2003
(BASE YR)
WITH PROJECT
GS AE25                                                      ,6       ,9        ,0        ,7        ,8        ,9        ,9       ,9         ,
GROSS VALUE                                 28,215   34,646   44,329   57,800   68,627   63,968   86,069   89,169   92,269    92,269
TOTAL INFLOW                                   28,215   34,646   44,329   57,800   68,627   63,968   86,069   89,169   92,269   92,269
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         8,862.3    9,326    9,326    9,326   11,081   11,229   11,229   11,229   11,229    11,229
NET INFLOW                                     19,353  25,321   35,003   48,475   57,546   52,739   74,840   77,940   81,040    81,040
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                     7,299.5   12,729   16,442   19,214   21,843   25,656   29,285   29,285   29,285    29,285
INVESTMIENTS                                      0   11,600   15,360   17,360    6,360   13,425             0    2,150         0          0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 7,299.5   24,329   31,802   36,574   28,203   39,081   29,285   31,435   29,285    29,285
uL
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                             12,053       992    3,201   11,900   29,343   13,658   45,555   46,505   51,755    51,755
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        8,862.3    9,326    9,326    9,326   11,081   11,229   11,229   11,229   11,229    11,229
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        8,862.3    9,326    9,326    9,326   11,081   11,229   11,229   11,229   11,229    11,229
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                9,405.0   12,055   13,115   16,255   17,210   18,355   17,880   17,880   17,880    17,880
* NET FARM BENEFIT                               11,510   -1,738      -588    4,971   23,213    6,532   38,904   39,854   45,104    45,104
--------ABLE---G.017-6----------------                                                                                                ---
**CONTINUED* TABLE  FBG.017                                       11/13/78  21:34:26



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROUECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE SIX
(IN CR$)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR ---------------------------------------
1978    1979    1980      1961      1982     1983     1988    1993     1998    2003
(BASE YR)
----------------__-_____-_-----_______-----_____-_____-_______----------__----__-----------------------------__--_-_______----_____
INCREMENTAL
_______________________
GROSS VALUE                                   0    5,197   13,646   25,6S3   35,475   29,582   51,683  54,783   57,883   57,883
TOTAL INFLOW                                    C    5,197   13,646   25,883   35,475   29,582   51,683  54,783   57,883   57,863
-  ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                          .00    463.3    463.3   .463.3  2,218.3  2,366.8  2,366.8  2,366.8  2,366-8  2,366.8
NET INFLOW                                      0    4,734   13,182   25,419   33,257   27,215   49,316   52,416   55,516   55,516
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                        0    5,428    9,045   11,722   14,256   17,972   21,602  21,602   21,602   21,602
INVESTMENTS                                  .0   11,600   15,360   17,360    6,360   13,425        0   2,150         0        0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                  .0   17,028   24,405   29,082   20,616   31,397   21,602   23,752   21,602   21,602    1
OD
NET FARM CASH FLOW                              0  -12,294  -11,223   -3,663   12,641   -4,182   27,714   28,664   33,914   33,914
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         -CO    463.3    463.3    463.3  2,218.3  2,366.8  2,366.8  2,366.8  2,366-8  2,366.8
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                       .00    453.3   463.3    463.3  2,218.3  2,366.8  2,366.8  2,366.8  2,366-8  2,366.8
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                .0  2,650.0  3,710.0  6,850.0  7,805.0  8,950.0  8,475.0  8,475.0  8,475.0  8,475.0
NET FARM BENEFIT                                0  -14,481  -14,470  -10,049    7,054  -10,765   21,606  22,556   27,806   27,806
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    10.00 % EQUALS  68264 CR$
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    15.00 % EQUALS  26139 CR$
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    20.00 % EQUALS   4314 CR$
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 21.48 %.
TABLE  FBG.018                                  11/13/78  21:34:26
,     t                                                            M 



NORTrHLAST BRAZIL
SE'RF;IFE RUR,AL DEVELOPMENT PFROJECT-TABULEIROS
FARM YFTE SIX
IEBIT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW FROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
......    ....          ..     ... -                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
0       1        2        3        4        5       6        7        a8       9      10        2
(L)   CASH  i.LQ;:
wiLLii OF PFFODUCTION               19.4    25.3    35.0    48.5    57.5    52.7    52.3    68.2    77.7    70.7    74.8    81.0
-  1'!:-irELHr LOAN   (100% OF 5)      0    11.6    15.4    17.4-    6.4    13.4         3.7      2.2        0      8.6        0        0
3  ''t l rLLRM LOAN            (6)      7.3    12.7    16.4    19.2    21.8    25.7    28.1    28.5    29.0    26.2    29.3    29.3
4   ruFAL 1NFLOW           L1+2t3)    26.7    49.7    66.8    85.0    85.7    91.8    84.1    9S.8   106.8   105.5'  104.1   110.3                  @
II;  CAS.1 OUTrF LOW:
Sf[lVES?MLN1 COST                      0    11.6    15.4    17.4        6.4    13.4      3.7      2.2        0      8.6        0       0
6  OPERATING COSl                       7.3    12.7    16.4    19.2    21.8    25.7    28.1    28.5    29.0    26.2    29.3    29.3
.'FOAL OUTF'LOW              (5+6)      7.3    24.3    31-8    36.6    28.2    39.1    31.8    30.6    29,0    34.8    29-3    29.3
'III) Naf CASH FLOW:
d   NE:i CASH FLOW           (4-7)    19.4    25.3    35.0    48.5    57.5    52.7    52.3    68.2    77.7    70.7    74.8    81.0
kIV)  fDEBY SERVICES:
9  INVE:ST. LOAN FRINCIPAL PMT,           0        0        0        0       0      1.0      2.5     4.2      5.2      6.9      7,9      9.8
10 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST               0       .6      1.9     3-6      4,7      5.7      6.5     6.5      6.2      6.1      5.9      4.4
11 ShURr TERM LOAN INTEREST              .3       .5       .6       .7      .8      1.0      1.1      1.1     1.1      1.0      1.1      1.1
12 SHORF-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.         7.3    12-7    16.4    19.2    21.8    25.7    28.i    28.5    29.0    26.2    29.3    29.3
13  TOTAL  DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)       7.6    13.8    19.0    23.5    27.4    33.4    38.1    40.3    41.5    40.2    44.2    44.6  mImI
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
14  SASIH BALANCE           (8-13)    11.8    11.5    16.0    25.0    30.1    19.4    14.2    27.9    36.2    30.5    30.7    36.5



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
,SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Farm TyPe Eight
Cropping Pattern
(ha)
DEVELOPMENT YEARS
CROPS                   Base Year  1        2      3      4    5-25
Oranges          oil/      0.0    1.0    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5
Tobacco                    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Manioc                     0.2    0.2    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4                                       1
Passion Fruit              0.0    0.0    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5                                       0
Peanuts 2/                 0.2    1.0    0.8    0.7    0.6    0.2
Corn    2/                 0.1    0.2    0.2    0.6    0.9    1.1 3/
Beans   2/                 0.1    0.1    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.J 3
Coffee                     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5    1.0    1.0
Total Cropped Area        1.2    3.0    4.4    5.1    5.7    5.5
1/ New plantations to be introduced under the project.
2/ Crops grown in consortia.
3/ Grown partly as intercropping in new plantations, area will be
gradually reduced and reach 0.2 ha of corn and 0.1 ha of beans
at full development of plantations.                                                          0| |g
..  I 
(DIx



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE EIGHT
(IN CR$)
-------------------------------------------- -------------------------------- CALENDAR ------------------------------------
1978     1979     1980      1981     1982     1983      1988     1993     1998      2003
(BASE YR)
WITHOUT PROJECT
GROSS VALUE                               14,499   15,079   15,659   16,239   16,819   17,399   17,399   17,399   17,399   17,399
u TOTAL INFLOW                                14,499   15,079   15,659   16,239   16,819   17,399   17,399   17,399   17,399   17,399
-   ON-FAPM CONSUMPTION                      7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8
' NET INFLOW                                   7,181    7,761    8,341    8,921    9,501   id,o8o   10,080   10,080   10,080   10,080
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                   2,031.3  2,032.2  2,033.0  2,033.9  2,034.8  2,035.7  2,035.7  2,035.7  2,035.7  2,035.7
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                              2,031.3  2,032.2  2,033.0  2,033.9  2,034.8  2,035.7  2,035.7  2,035.7  2,035.7  2,035.7
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                         5,149.3  5,728.4  6,307.5  6,886.6  7,465.7  8,044.8  8,044.8  8,044.8  8,044.8  8,044.8
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                      7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8
+ NON-PRODUCTION  OUTFLOW                    7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8  7,318.8
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST             4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0  4,835.0
* NET FARM BENEFIT                             7,633    8,212    8,791    9,370    9,950   10,529   10,529   10,529   10,529   10,529
'm I
OD
_________--------------------------
**CONTINUED* TABLE  F2C.022                                    11/13/78  21:38:48



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE EIGHT
(IN CR$)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------  CALENDAR  ------------------------------------
1978     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983     1988     1993      1998     2003
(BASE YR)
------------------------------------------------------------------      _ -------- __---------- - ----- ____- __--- - ---------------- - -----
WITH PROJECT
GS A14                                                 18_6              43       67        58      12 15             1,_,
GROSS VALUE                              14,499   18,848   37,666   46,338   63,774   65,689  112,425  115,525  118,625  119,625
*TOTAL INFLOW                               14,499   18,848   37,666   46,338   63,774   65,689  112,425  115,525  118,625  118,625
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                     7,318.8    9,102    9,102    9,102   10,857   11,005   11,005   11,005   11,005   11,005
* NET INFLOW                                  7,181    9,746   28,564   37,236   52,917   54,1684  101,420  104,520  107,620  107,620
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                  2,031.3    5,016   10,133   11,036   16,554   26,657   32,483   32,483   32,483   32,483
HIRED LABOR COST                             .00      .00      .00      .00     -.00   185.00      .00       .00      .00      .00
INVESTMENTS                                   0   19,750   28,400   20,385   21,575    8,095   10,750         0        0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                             2,031.3   24,766   38,533   31,421   38,129   34,937   43,233   32,483   32,483   32,483
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                        5,149.3  -15,020   -9,969    5,815   14,788   19,747   58,186   72,036   75,136   75,136
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                     7,318.8    9,102    9,102    9,102   10,857   11,005   11,005   11,005   11,005   11,005
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                    7,318.8    9,102    9,102    9,102   10,857   11,005   11,005   11,005   11,005   11,005
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST            4,835.0    6,505    9,590   12,225   14,460   22,645   21,750   21,750   21,750   21,750
U NET FARM BENEFIT                            7,633  -12,423  -10,457    2,692   11,185    8,107   47,442   61,292   64,392   64,392
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     - - - - - -  -------  - - ------  ---
**CONTINUED* TABLE  FBG.023                                   11/13/78  21:34:26



BRAZIL-NORTHEAST
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
FINANCIAL , ANNUAL FARM BUDGET
FARM TYPE EIGHT
(IN CR5)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR -------------------------------------
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1988     1993      1998     2003
(BASE YR)
INCREMENTAL
GROSS VALUE                                     0    3,769   22,006   30,099   46,954   48,290   95,026   98,126  101,226  101,226
* TOTAL INFLOW                                      0    3,769   22,006   30,099   46,954   48,290   95,026   986126  101,226  101,226
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                            .00  1,783.1  1.783.1  1,783.1  3,538.1  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6
- NET INFLOW                                        0    1,986   20,223   28,316   43,416   44,603   91,339   94,439   97,539   97,539
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                          o    2,984    8,100    9,003   14,519   24,621   30,447   30,447   30,447   30,447
HIRED LABOR COST                               .0       .00      .00       .00      .00   185.00        .00      .00       .00       .00
INVESTMENTS                                    .0   19,750   28,400   20,385   21,575    8,095   10,750            0        0         0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                      C   22,734   36,500   29,388   36,094   32,901   41,197   30,447   30,447   30,447
* NET FARM CASH FLOW                                 0  -20,748  -16,276   -1,072    7,322   11,702   50,142   63,992   67,092    67,092   .
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                            oo  1,783.1  1,783.1  1,783.1  3,538.1  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6   3,686.6
NON-PRODUCTION  OUTFLOW                         .00  1,783.1  1,783.1  1,783.1  3,538.1  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6  3,686.6   3,686.6
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                     0    1,670    4,755    7,390    9,625   17,810   16,915   16,915   16,915    16,915
* NET FARM BENEFIT                                  0  -20,635  -19,248   -6,679    1,235   -2,422   36,913   50,763   53,863    53,863
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    10.00 X EQUALS    190 THOUSAND CRS
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    15.00 X EQUALS  94381 CR5
NET PRESENT VALUE AT    20.00 % EQUALS  43931 CR5
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN 29.47 X.
10I
--------------------------------_-_-- ----_---_-------_--------                                                              -     --
TABLE  FBG.024                                     11/13/78  21:34:26



NORTHEAST 8RAZIL
SERGIF'E RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT--TABWLEIROS
FARM rYPE EIGH-'T
DEBT SERVICE AND CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN CR$000)
--------------------------------------------------------------YEAR---------
0        t       2        3         4        5        6        7        8        9       10       12
(I)   CASH INFLOW'
I  VALUE OF PRODUCTION                   7.2      9.7    28.6    37.2    52.9    54.7    65.0    84.0    99.5    95.2   1(>1.4   107,.6
2  INVESTMENT LOAN   (100% OF 5)            0    19.7    28.4    20.4.   21.6         8.1    12.8          0        0        0    10.8         0
3  SHORT TERM LOAN               (6)     2.0      5.0    10.1    11.0    16.6    26.8    29.5    30.2    31.7    29.1    32.5    32,5
4   TOTAL INFLOW            (1+2+3)      .9.2    34.5    67.1    68.7    91.0    89.6   107.3   114.2   131.2   124.3   141.7   140-,
(II)  CASH OUTFLOW:;
5  INVESTMENT COST,                         0    19.7    28.4    20.4    21.6         8.1    12.8          0        0        0    10.8         '
6  OF'ERATING COST        '              2.0      5.0    10'.1    11-0    16.6    26.8    29.5    30.2    31.7    .29.1    ;2.5    32.5
7   TOTAL OUTFLOW             (5+6)      2.0    24.8    38.5    31.4    38.1    34.9    42.3    .;0.2    31.7    29.1              43.2    32.5
(III) NET CASH FLOW:_
8   NET CASH FLOW             (4-7)      7.2      9.7    28.6    37.2    52-9    54.7    65.0    94.0    99.5    95.2   101.4   107.6
(IV)- DEBT SERVICES:-
9  INVEST. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.              0        0        0        0        0     1.7      4.4      6.6      9.2    10.8    13.0    15.7
10 INVESTMENT LOAN INTEREST                0      1.0      3.4      5.8      7.9      9.4    10.3    10.5        9.8      9.9       S.4      6.'2
11 SHORT TERM LOAN INTEREST               .1       .2       .4       .4       .6      1.0      1.1      1.1       1.2      1.1      1.2      1.2
12 SHORT-T. LOAN PRINCIPAL PMT.          2.0      5.0    10.1    11.0    16.6    26.8    29.5    30.2    31.7    29.1    32.5    32.:
13  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (9 TO 12)         2.1      6.2    13.9    17.3    25.1        39.0    45.3    48.41   51.9    49.9    55.0    5S.6
(V)   CASH BALANCE:
14  CASH BALANCE             (e-13)      5.1      3-6    14.7    20.0    27.8    15.7    19.7    35-6    47.6    45.3    46.4    52.0
--------------- ! ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- - --- -- -- -1-     -
I.



NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RIRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Cost and Benefit Streams for Econmic Analysis
(in efficiency prices and Cr$ 000)
1           2            3           4            5            6            7           8           9           10           11          12          13          14        15-25
Benefit Strem
Net F.s B.nefit                      -49,900      -56,800      -53,800      -16,900      27,500       93,200      160,800     217,S00    236,700    255,500       274,400      293,300    312,200       331,000     349,.'0'3
Adlustme.t for foreign exchange         2.800       8,700       19,400       38,600       52,200      73,300       94,800      116,200    137,700    148,800       154,900     164,000    173.100       179.300     179.330
Shadcw Price
Total Net Farm Benefit                -47,100     -48,100      -34,40        21,700      79,700      166,500      255,600     334,000    374,400    404,300       429,300      457,300    485,300      510,300      529,200
Cost Stream
Agricultural Extersion Service          7,564      10,880       15,413       18,603      20,344       14,241       14,241       14,241     14,241      14,241        8,138       8,138       8,138       8,138        8,138
Akricultural Experimentation            2,828       1,897        1,904        1,763        1,642         985          985          985        985         985        0           0           0            0           0
Lacd Titling *nd S&r.eyi.g              1,980       2,946        6.808       5,404        7,366        0            0           0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Colonization                          25,999       34,700       62,301       61,516      57,450        0            0           0           0           0            0           0           0           0            0
Feeder  and Access Roads              37,332       42,282       52,182      49,913       25,575        2,558        2,558        2,558      2,558       2,358        2,558       2,558       2,558        2,558       2,558
Marketing Facilities                    0           4,419        0            0            0           0            0           0           0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Adninistration and monitoring           4,361       3,894        3,894        3,894        3,894       3,505        3,115        2,336      1,558         779        0           0           0            0           0
Evaluation and Studies                    764         764          764          764          764         688          611          458        306         153        0           0           0            0           0
Subtotal Cost Strem                   80,828      101,782      143,266      141,857     117,035       21,977       21,510      20,578      19,648      18,716       10,696      10,696      10,696       10,696      10,6596
Adjust.ent fer Foreign Exchange         7,647       9,685       14,475       14,212       11,519          919         906          870        850         823          546          546        546          546          5415
Shadow Price
Total Cost Stream-                    88,475      111,467      157,741      156,069     128,554       22,896       22,416       21,448     20,498      19,539       11,242      11,242      11,242       11,242      11,242
Net lenefit Strem                   -135,575    -159,567    -192,141    -134,369        -48,854      143,604      233,184     312,552    353,902    384,761       418,058      446,058    474,058      499,058      517,955
Internal Rate of Return 27X.
It Cost stream includes 100% of the project coats (base-line pls. physical contingencies) fer the colonixetiDn.
agriculturae experimentation, land titling, marketing and feeder road components; 90% of the agricultural
extensier service costs (at least 10% of these cests being directly or indirectly related to social extension,
health, ed.c.tion and community development activities for which benefits are not easily quantifiable); 70%
of oerall project costs for administration and monitoring (at least 302 of these costs being related to project
social doeelopment activities); and 50% of the costs of the project evaluation (because evaluation wuld cover
bcth pr.id,ction ard social components and many of the lessons learned would benefit aainly subsesqirt projects).
2/ Not adusted for state and federal taxes which, at a roghly estimated 2n, are nagligible and would not change the eutisted own.-d  mate of retur.



-66-                                 ANNEX 10
NORTHEAST BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TABULEIROS SUL
Related Documents and Data Available
in Project Files
A. SUPPLEMENTARY STAFF WORKING PAPERS
1. Project Area Summary Data
2. Agricultural Extension
3. Agricultural Experimentation
4. Land Surveying and Titling
5. Agricultural Credit
6. Input Supply and Storage
7. Cooperative Societies
8. Education and Community Training
9. Feeder and Access Roads
10. Health and Sanitation
11. Agricultural Development and Production Technology
12. Markets, Prices and Marketing
13. Colonization Schemes
14. Marketing Facilities
15. Economic Analysis
16. Producer Income and Employment
17. Project Administration
B.   DOCUMENTS PREPARED BY STATE
1.   0 Estado e a Area do Projeto
2.   Desenvolvimento Agricola
3.   Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
4.   Pesquisa Agricola
5.   Titulac,o de Terras
6.   Credito
7.   Comercializapao Agricola
8.   Apoio ao Cooperativismo
9.   Colonizaqao
10.   Organiza,co e Administracao
11. EducaSao e Forma,co de Mao de Obra



BRAZIL
STATE  OF SERGIPE
TABULEIROS SUL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
-ID'~~~~~~~~~1                     >QL 00000
TO ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     T  0'E 0ACf[ LR                                    1J                    'ORt
¢'J~~~ ~~~~~                                               ~                ~ ~~~~~~ SUDA Ev-o Sw-
X)          l                                                                         E\-NO  \ \ t-
21S :R;'T           /f/  /,                                               %f3Rf bJdrt
PHYK)GAPHKT~,pT SUBloREAo
BRAZIL~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tDRLR-D
,, | A i  F F 5/ Cf   i > * jJ 8w- Ae;tho eoM   i sJ  /                                         8    16  14~~~~~1,  f2T000  4 040 3 1
10  -/ -s            3                                                       oSTATE BOADS
A IvI F 'pi/  r                                                                                                  To1= 0 P
________6___         ____4__






IBRD 13976
37.130'                                                    337°                                                       DECEMBER 1978
BRAZI L
10'30'                                     STATE  OF  SERGIPE                                                                                          SOILS
TABULEIROS SUL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                       CROPS
SOIL  TYPES, POTENTIAL  LAND  USE, AND   RAINFALL                                                       POTENTIAL USE                           TYPE      SUITABILITY:
Temporary (Field) and                             Good
Permanent (Fruit) Crops                    ,      Fair
IoX,lTABAIANA                                 (                                                 *0~->+ttlL,--- Restricted
Artificial Pastures                    I          Fair
SIMAO DIAS         <                                            °                     °
Natural Forests and Pastures           L          Fair
Natural Forests only                 |      l      -
PHYSIOGRAPHIC  SUB-AREAS
Litoral                               Z
~~~~~~~~R' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cerrado Central
PK:S'4  ~          Tabuleiros e Vales
Rainfall (Annual Average)                750
Federal Roads
State Roads
UW                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~State  Boundairies        -  __
<    .' s;X9m>*r1i-;l  i              w                                                              it             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L)
BRAZILBRAIL
,3s  0   4  F        12  16  20                             SOn e
KILOMETERSMEi%/
6'                                o                                . y Z /D rpfthateaJersoteheretJorThins rmp ht beea prepared by the World Vark's neff exclusiv for the  TLANTIC
s-a A            / ,r, thisnnapdnot ,nPlt. onpart of the Wedd Sankiand do                                 OCEAN
V liates, anysudgpoent on the legal status of dry territory or any osdorsootent or
so   7  1  A   37o3wz  a dcceptance of such brudafies        l                             ;;. ;-;  . :-5 , 1dl.



