Document of            FuLE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2554-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
To
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 16, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978         April 19, 1979
Currency Unit               Cruzeiro (Cr$)              Cr$
US$1               =        Cr$18.3                     23.79
Cr$1                        US$0.055                    0.042
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB                   Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB            -    Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
BNCC           -    Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo
(National Cooperative Credit Bank)
CEASA                Companhia Estadual de Abastecimento
(State Agricultural Supply Company)
CEPA-SE        X    Comissao Estadual de Planejamento Agricola - Sergipe
(Sergipe State Agricultural Planning Commission)
DER-SE         =    Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem - Sergipe
(Sergipe State Highway Department)
EMATER-SE      -    Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural -
Sergipe
(Sergipe State Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Enterprise)
EMSETUR              Empresa Sergipana de Turismo
(Sergipe State Tourism Enterprise)
INCRA          =    Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
MEB             =    Movimento de Educacao de Base
(Movement for Basic Education)
PAU            =    Project Administration Unit
POLONORDESTE   =    Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the
Northeast)
SEC            -    Secretaria da Educacao e Cultura do Estado de Sergipe
(Sergipe State Secretariat of Education and Culture)
SENAC          -    Servico Nacional de Aprendizado Comercial
(National Commercial Apprenticeship Service)
SES            -    Secretaria de Saude de Sergipe
(Sergipe State Secretariat of Health)
SUDAP                Superintendencia da Agricultura e da Producao
(Superintendency for Agriculture and Production)
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 - Cr$ 18.75) corre-
sponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of September 1978.



BRAZIL            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND_PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                   US$26 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, at 7.90% interest per annum
Project
Description             The project is designed to increase the agricultural
production and incomes, broaden the economic opportu-
nities, and thus raise the living standards of 8,400
farm families residing in the Tabuleiros Sul region
of Sergipe State. Other objectives of the project
include: increasing the project area's contribution
to the local and state food supplies and to export
earnings, and improving the technical and administra-
tive capacities of agencies involved in agriculture
and rural development in Sergipe State. To achieve
these ends, the project provides for the strengthening
of agricultural and social support services and
infrastructure, rural credit, tlhe establishment of
agricultural settlements, and the institutional develop-
ment of the main local executing agencies
The main risk faced by the project is that of not
achieving active participation by, and adequate coordi-
nation among, the various participating agencies.
However, a special Project Administration Unit is
already established, and arrangements would be made
by the State to ensure a more direct involvement of
the participating agencies in annual project planning.
Potential project management problems would also be
reduced by such safeguards as annual reviews of the
implementation program of each participating agency,
and by monitoring and evaluation systems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
% of
----- US$ Millions-----   Baseline
Local   Foreign   Total       Cost
Agricultural_Services
Extension                      3 5       0.5       4.0        6.8
Experimentation                0.5       0.0       0.5        0.9
Land Titling and Surveying   1.1         0.1       1.2        2.1
Subtotal                       5.1        .7       5.8        9 8
Credit
Investment                    16.8       3.0      19.8       33.6
Incremental Working Capital  4.7         0.9       5.5        9.3
Land Clearing and On-Farm
Development                  2.9       1.5       4.4       _7.5
Subtotal                      24.4       5.3      29.7       50.4
Colonization
Land Purchase                  6.0          -      6.0       10.1
Planning and Implementation  1.1         0.2       1.3        2.3
Subtotal                       7.1       0.2       7.3       12.4
Social Infrastructure
Education and Vocational
Training                     2.3       0.4       2.7        4.7
Health and Sanitation           1.1      0.2       1.3        2.2
Subtotal                       3.4       0.6       4.0        6.9
Physical Infrastructure
Feeder and Access Roads        6.7       3.3      10.1       17 1
Marketing Facilities           0.2       0.0       0.2        0.4
Subtotal                       6.9       3.4      10.3       17.5
Project Management
Administration and
Monitoring                   1.3       0.1       1.4        2.4
Evaluation and Studies         0.3       0.0       04         0.6
Subtotal                       1.6       0.2       1.8        3.0
Total Baseline Costs            48.5      10.4      58.9      100.0
Physical Contingencies         2.6       0.6       3.2        5.4
Price Contingencies           11.4       2.5      14.0       23.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             62.6      13.5      76.0      129.1



- iii -
Financing_ lan:
US$ Million           %
Government           50.0              65.8
IBRD                 26.0              34.2
Total                76.0             100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
… --------------US$ Millions-------------
Bank FY       1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual         0.8    2.4    4.6    7.0    7.6    3.6
Cumulative    0.8    3.2    7.8   14.8   22.4   26.0
Rate of Return:           The economic rate of return is estimated at 27% for
the parts of the project with directly quantifiable
benefits, which represent about 85% of total project
costs.
Appraisal Reort:          Report No. 2358-BR, dated May 15, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$26 million to
help finance the Sergipe Rural Development project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.90% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        A new Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979 for a six-year term. In its
inaugural statements, the new Administration has emphasized the need to
reduce inflation and limit the growth of aggregate demand in accordance with
Brazil's balance-of-payments constraint.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite significant trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
relative income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that
most Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth of
public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports
rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports
also swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current



account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or 7%
of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the sud-
denly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic problems
of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the oil crisis has been enhanced by its
strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of its manu-
factured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets, combined
with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and the opportun-
ities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import substitution.
Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high national growth
expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the authorities were initially
reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted instead toward
increasing control over imports, which were held approximately constant in
nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort, accomplished
through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a positive merchand-
ise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current account deficit was
reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged 7.6% per year between
1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the
authorities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained above 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional
international reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, despite a 2%
decline in agricultural output. The agricultural failure was caused by a
serious drought in southern Brazil which resulted in the loss of an estimated
30% of the soybean crop, 17% of corn output, 5% of rice, and 18% of cotton.
The resultant reduction of exports and increased need for imports cost the
economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign exchange, about two-thirds of
which was attributable to reduced soybean exports. An important bright spot
in the picture was a 36% nominal increase in the export of manufactured
goods. Total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%, compared to a 13.4% increase
in imports.
9.        Interest payments abroad increased sharply as a combined result
of substantial borrowings and a steep rise in the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR),
to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied. The current account
deficit thus rose to 3.0% of GDP in 1978. Total debt service on medium- and
long-term debt (public and private), net of interest earned on Brazil's re-
serves, rose to 59% of exports in 1978, from 49% in the previous year. Part of
this increase, however, was associated with a further US$3.8 billion increase
in international reserves. By the end of the year reserves had grown to
US$11.7 billion, or about 8 months of projected 1979 import equivalence
(including non-factor services). Inflation remained at about 40% in 1978,
for the third consecutive year, despite continued curbs on credit and public
sector investment. The drought-related contraction of agricultural output



- 3 -
and the rapid build-up of international reserves contributed to the price
pressures. These pressures intensified in early 1979, while labor disputes
which had occurred sporadically in 1978 affected much of the public sector of
Sao Paulo as well as teachers in the major cities. The new Government
responded to the rise in inflation by adopting a new package of measures during
April 1979. The major components of the package are a temporary price-freeze
on supermarket sales, stricter enforcement of existing price control regula-
tions, new restraints on private sector foreign borrowing, and severe limits
on domestic credit expansion.
Poverty Programs
10.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been
expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban
population is now covered by the social security's health care system, and a
cash transfer program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under
this latter system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age
are eligible to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an
amount which is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural
Northeast. The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program.
Almost 2 million loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964
for housing. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to
benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a
program to finance home improvement and building materials. High priority
has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people
have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the
proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services from 60 to 75%.
Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of adult
illiteracy and malnutrition.
Future Prospects
11.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have been acce-
lerated to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate
nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for automotive
use, while efforts have been made to induce energy conservation. The results,
however, have thus far been limited, and with oil now constituting 30% of
Brazil's merchandise imports, as compared to 11% in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
12.       The Government that took office on March 15 has acknowledged
that the balance-of-payments constraint and the need to reduce the rate of
inflation mean that Brazil must undergo a period of carefully moderated
economic growth. As noted above, a number of measures toward this end have
already been announced, including some increases in taxes and further reduc-
tions of public expenditures, credit, and subsidies. To assure the efficient



execution of these and future fiscal and monetary policy decisions, several
important institutional reforms have been set in motion. These include:
consolidation and improvement of information flows and centralized control
over the public sector budget, integrating the operations of the far-flung
semi-autonomous agencies and public enterprises; incorporation also into the
budget of many of the subsidized credit programs currently handled outside
the budget through the Central Bank; and elimination from the Central Bank of
its gradually accumulated development banking functions. Important also in
this context, as well as to the efficiency of resource allocation, is the
decision to phase out over four years both the excess rebate of taxes to
exports and the prior deposit requirement on imports, and compensating these
actions through gradual real devaluation of the cruzeiro. Indications are
that Brazilian industry would be internationally competitive, even without
export subsidies, over a wide range of manufactures if an appropriate real
exchange rate is maintained.
13.       Growth is expected to average at most 5-6% per year in 1979 and
1980, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. But barring further
unforeseen difficulties that would constrain the availability of external
resources, it might be possible in subsequent years to reaccelerate the
economy gradually to a growth rate of 7-8% by 1985. Such growth rates would
be compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
a falling debt service ratio.
14.       This prognosis depends heavily on the continued vigorous growth of
manufactured exports, though at a rate more modest than that of the past 15
years. The export of manufactures grew at a real average annual rate of 28%
in the decade 1964-74, this pace dropping off only during the world-wide
recession of 1975-76. The momentum resumed in 1977 and 1978 with real growth
rates of 29 and 20%, respectively. By comparison, the growth rates assumed
in the projections -- 18% per annum during 1978-80 and 12% per annum in
1980-85 -- do not appear unreasonable, particularly in view of the broad
diversification of Brazil's manufactured exports in terms of both products
and markets.
15.       Also assumed is the continuation of Brazil's vigorous import-
substitution effort. The present substitution program was initiated prior
to the oil-related balance-of-payments difficulties in recognition that the
growth and increasing sophistication of the domestic economy had made possible
the efficient production of many capital and intermediate goods requiring
large-scale operations and advanced technology.  Major projects were conse-
quently undertaken for the production, inter alia, of fertilizers, steel,
aluminum, other basic metals, and petroleum.  The installation of hydroelec-
tric capacity could also be properly viewed in this context. Although public
investments will be restrained in coming years as part of the new Government's
announced stabilization program, these sectors will continue to receive
priority.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Despite the successful effort to restrict imports after the rise
in oil prices, the maintenance of high growth rates after 1973 has required a
substantial increase in Brazil's external indebtedness. By the end of 1978,



the total of public and private external debt outstanding had risen to
US$41.0 billion, as compared to US$12.6 billion at the end of 1973. As noted
earlier a significant fraction of this borrowing was added to Brazil's inter-
national reserves, which increased from US$6.4 billion to US$11.7 billion over
the same period. This "excess" borrowing occurred largely in response to the
steadily improving loan terms available to Brazil in 1977 and 1978, which
provided the economy relatively low (net) cost insurance against future exter-
nal shocks and offered many private borrowers an alternative to expensive
domestic credit.
17.       A gross capital inflow of US$14.9 billion was required in 1978 to
cover the current account deficit (US$5.7 billion), amortization payments
(US$5.4 billion) and the reserve accumulation (US$3.8 billion). After
accounting for direct investments and short-term outflows, total medium- and
long-term credits (disbursements) amounted to US$14.3 billion. Financial
credits accounted for US$11.4 billion of the total.
18.       Brazil is expected to show a growing resource surplus beginning
around 1980, reaching US$2.0 billion by 1985. Rapidly increasing net factor
service payments abroad, emanating from both interest payments on its large
debt and royalties for imported technology, could reach US$7.5 billion by
1985, however, resulting in a continuing current account deficit through the
first half of the 1980s in the range of US$5.0-5.5 billion. But in proportion
to GDP, the current account deficit would fall to less than one percent by
1985.
19.       Gross borrowing requirements are expected to fall sharply to about
US$6.9 billion in 1979 as a combined result of the reduced growth rate and
the Government's announced intention to draw down reserves by about US$3
billion. Thereafter, gross borrowings would rise steadily from US$11.5
billion in 1980 to US$16.1 billion in 1985. Net borrowing during these same
years would grow from US$3.8 billion to US$5.8 billion. The need for
external financing is thus expected to grow somewhat more slowly than in
recent years and significantly less rapidly than the rate of growth of
exports. As a consequence the net debt service ratio (including both public
and private debt) would peak at about 60% in 1980, falling steadily there-
after to 40% by 1985.
20.       In summary, Brazil is a dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient
economy in which policy makers have demonstrated repeatedly their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances when needed. After a period of very rapid
growth in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of pet-
roleum imports has forced the nation to moderate its growth expectations and
to adapt its economic structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjust-
ment process was eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of inter-
national creditworthiness, aggressive expansion of its manufactured exports,
and the ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by its
large domestic market. Nevertheless, Brazil's continued heavy dependence on
petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumu-
lation of external debt in recent years indicate that the process is not yet
complete. The new Government recognizes the need to restrain the growth of
aggregate demand for the next several years while continuing, with greater
selectivity than in the past, to make the investments necessary both to sustain



- 6 -
the progress of export expansion and import substitution and to alleviate
poverty. The task of economic management will not be easy, but the outlook
is favorable. The current analysis shows no diminution of Brazil's capacity
to service its existing and future debts. Moreover, the fact that imports
are small relative to GDP and that because of Brazil's size and diversity
most imports are residual in nature -- i.e., fill the gap between demand and
existing domestic production capacity -- means that relatively small changes
in the overall economic growth rate will generally suffice to adjust to
unforeseen shocks to the balance of payments. Brazil thus remains fully
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1979 the Bank had made 85 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$4,178.2 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed. During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$248
million in FY75, US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252
million in FY78. Disbursements are expected to increase during the next few
years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31,
1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Over the FY75-FY78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 millioni in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77, seven
loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling US$705 million
were made. So far in FY79, the Bank has approved a loan of US$93 million for
a sites and services and low-cost housing project in the northeastern states
of Bahia and Pernambuco and in Greater Sao Paulo, a loan of US$100 million
for a water supply and sewerage project in the northeastern states of Bahia,
Ceara and Pernambuco, and a loan of US$98 million for the VALESUL aluminum
project.
23.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.
24.       As of March 31, 1979 IFC commitments to Brazil, totalled US$395.2
million, of which US$270.3 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance of US$125.0 million, US$93.8 million represent loans and US$31.2
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31, 1979 is
given in Annex II.



-7-
Lending Strategi
25.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to
those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to these ends
that the proposed Sergipe Rural Development project is mainly directed.
Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational training,
agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder construction in the
lower Sao Francisco river basin as well as for integrated rural development
in the States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba and Bahia
were also designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional
projects designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas are in prepara-
tion, including a second feeder roads project, a second irrigation project for
the Lower Sao Francisco Valley, a rural education project and two integrated
rural development projects in the Northeast. The loans for water supply and
sewerage projects in the State of Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo and in
the Northeast, for urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and
services and low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to
reach low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation, including a medium-
sized cities development project, a water supply and sewerage project for
Southern Brazil, a second urban transport project, and a pollution control
project for Greater Sao Paulo.
26.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically through
rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building objec-
tive has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the transportation
sector where there has been emphasis on the rational selection of investments,
the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of railways'
financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply and sewerage,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives. It is
expected that the experience gained by the local executing agencies during the
preparation and implementation of the proposed project will be applied in
future rural development projects in Sergipe, as well as in other northeastern
states.
27.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since



it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending
for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this
objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective
would be achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which uses Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
28.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Nine co-financing operations
for more than US$365 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the National Economy
29.       Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be an important
sector in the economy. The national agricultural work force numbers 12.8
million, or 39.5% of the economically active population. About 60% of
merchandise exports originate in the agricultural sector (including processed
agricultural goods), with coffee, soybeans and sugar alone generating about
40% of the country's export earnings.  Brazil is the world's largest exporter
of coffee, the largest producer of cane sugar, and the second largest producer
of soybeans. It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts, cocoa, orange
juice, castor oil and sisal.
30.       The most important products for the domestic market include cassava,
maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy
products, poultry, beef and pork. With the exception of wheat, Brazil is
largely self-sufficient in basic food production, although some staples
(such as garlic, onion, potatoes and even beans) are imported seasonally and
in years of poor crops. Half of the wheat consumed in Brazil is still imported.
Over 1967-74, the agricultural sector performed well in meeting domestic demand
for food and fiber as well as supplying a rising volume of export commodities,



with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse weather conditions in
three of the seven years. With the exception of 1977, when agricultural output
rose by 9.6%, the growth performance of the sector has subsequently fallen
below the 1967-74 average. Owing mainly to severe droughts in producing areas,
the growth in agricultural output during 1978 declined by about 2%. Subsis-
tence and semi-commercial production and the use of rudimentary technology
continue to be widespread, particularly in the Northeast, North and Center
West. Real wages in agriculture have been rising sharply in recent years,
suggesting that the traditional pattern under which the sector was a source of
surplus labor for the rest of the economy may not continue indefinitely.
Agricultural Development Policy
31.       In recent years growth in agricultural production has been substantial
but has been due more to expansion of land under cultivation than to improved
productivity. However, the Government is now taking measures aimed at a more
efficient exploitation of Brazil's agricultural potential, which include not
only programs to increase the areas under production but also programs to
increase productivity, particularly among smaller farmers. Acknowledging the
urgency of increasing the productivity and incomes of the rural poor, as well
as to increase production generally, the Government has: (i) allocated
substantial public resources to incorporate new areas into production through
programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program) and PROTERRA (the
Program for Land Settlement and Stimulus to Agro-Industry in the North and
Northeast) and through development of regional development "poles" in the
North and Center-West, under the POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO programs; (ii) pro-
moted a significant expansion in the supply of agricultural credit (most of
it at subsidized rates), and of other production incentives; (iii) initiated
special regional programs such as the Development Program for Integrated Areas
in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), established in 1974 to improve small farmers'
productivity in the Northeast through the preparation and implementation of
integrated rural development projects in selected micro-regions; (iv) promoted
specific crop and livestock production programs, such as programs for pasture
and herd development and programs to encourage cacao and sugar production; and
(v) reorganized the key federal research and extension services, and taken
steps to provide for their integration and strengthening.
32.       One important aspect of the Government's agricultural policy is its
practice of encouraging a large volume of agricultural credit at subsidized
interest rates. For most of Brazil these rates now vary between 13% and
21% per annum without monetary correction, which in Brazil's inflationary
environment means that they are negative in real terms. In the POLONORDESTE
program, the standard rate is now 10% without monetary correction. Credit for
fertilizer purchase is interest free. The subsidized interest rate system was
originally introduced in Brazil some years ago as a means of compensating the
agricultural sector for adverse terms of trade resulting from high prices for
fertilizer, machinery and other inputs. The subsidized rates were also
intended to provide an incentive to expand agricultural production and, in the
case of the Northeast, to give special help to a disadvantaged part of the
country. The main institutions extending agricultural credit, the Banco do
Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, are able to extend this credit on



- 10 -
subsidized terms by virtue of large interest-free deposits which public
agencies place with them, so that the financial burden of the subsidies is
borne by the public sector as a whole, rather than by individual financial
institutions. However, the system has severe disadvantages, including possible
leakages from the agricultural sector into other sectors, the inequity of
granting large farmers access to subsidized credit, and, in the case of larger
agricultural enterprises, the encouragement of unduly capital intensive
techniques. In the case of credit to very small farmers, such as those being
assisted under the proposed project, and under other projects associated with
POLONORDESTE, many of the beneficiaries are below the poverty level and their
individual programs are being intensively supervised to ensure that the credit
is used for the intended purposes. Thus, the possible adverse effects of such
subsidized credit are substantially reduced.
33.        Bank staff have for several years conducted a dialogue with the
Government on this matter, and the Government is aware of the drawbacks
of the system. In the past year a few modifications have been made. Larger
farmers are now required to finance at least 25% of on-farm investments with
their own resources, and a sliding scale of rates has been established charging
larger farmers somewhat more than smaller farmers. The basic rate in the
Northeast has been increased from 7% to 10%.
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil 1/
34.       The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about
35 million, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas, and it is growing at a
rate of 800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region has a semi-arid
climate, with periodic serious droughts and extensive areas of poor soils.
Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region, accounting
for 40% of the agriculturally employed population of Brazil. In 1977, 26.9%
of the area harvested in Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout the region,
much of the food and industrial crops is produced by small farmers, technology
is unsophisticated and yields are poor, but farming systems are adjusted to
conditions prevailing: lack of credit for working capital or investment;
limited agricultural extension services; market isolation and weak linkages
with the regional economy; insecurity of land tenure; and, in some areas, a
difficult physical environment. These problems are compounded by a highly
skewed distribution of land ownership. Less than 1% of the total number of
farm establishments account for 40% of the area, whereas in some areas up to
80% of the rural labor force owns no land at all.
35.       To speed economic development in the Northeast, the Government
operates a special agency, the Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE),
and a special development bank for the Northeast, Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil (BNB). Substantial fiscal and monetary incentives have been made
available over the past decade for both industry and agriculture which have
transferred large amounts of fiscal resources from the wealthier regions
of Brazil to the Northeast. Past Government programs directed to the rural
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in
Northeast Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR, dated June 23, 1975).



- 11 -
population have often been in the areas of public works, with substantial
efforts being made in drought-prone areas to develop dams and ponds. The
POLONORDESTE program, which was established in 1974, is helping to finance:
(i) preparation and initial implementation expenditures for new integrated
rural development projects in subregions selected for their expected develop-
ment potential, and (ii) the continuation or completion of projects (parti-
cularly land settlement and irrigation) begun or planned before the creation
of POLONORDESTE. By the end of 1977, around US$584 million had been allocated
to these efforts. The establishment of POLONORDESTE has generally helped to
direct the energies of various Government bodies toward improving the agricul-
tural productivity and living standards of the rural poor. While at both the
state and regional levels, the institutional capacity to plan, coordinate and
execute POLONORDESTE still requires strengthening, this program (and perhaps
the associated Bank-assisted rural development projects in particular) has
already had some beneficial impacts on the design and execution of development
programs for the rural Northeast. Among the most important of these impacts
are: the greater emphasis now being given to social and physical support
services in the design of rural development projects (as opposed to the
emphasis on physical infrastructure in the past); and the decentralization of
planning, which has enabled such projects to be prepared by those who would
implement them.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
36.       The Bank has so far made 14 loans, totalling US$517.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two for livestock
development, amounting to US$60.5 million; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain storage; one, of US$40
million, for an agricultural research program for the Northeast, North and
Center-West of Brazil; one, of US$100 million, for the development of agri-
cultural extension services; and seven, totalling US$161.7 million, for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, six of which
are located in the Northeast. In addition, there have been three loans,
totalling US$196 million for fertilizer production, a loan of US$19 million
for a nutrition research and development project and a loan of US$55 million
for a secondary and feeder roads project, which are having a direct impact
on agricultural production and development of the rural sector.
37.       The proposed loan would be the sixth loan made for an integrated
rural development project in Brazil, and the fifth under the POLONORDESTE
program. Implementation of the Minas Gerais rural development project is
progressing satisfactorily after a slow start due principally to administra-
tive delays in the release of credit funds. Phase I of the Rio Grande do Norte
project has been completed satisfactorily and the new State Government has
indicated its strong support of Phase II implementation. The Ceara project
which was approved in September 1977, and the Paraiba project in March 1978,
are progressing satisfactorily. The implementation of the majority of the
components of the Bahia project which was approved in July 1978 is also
progressing satisfactorily.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The project was prepared by the Sergipe State Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA-SE), with the assistance of Bank staff. A Bank identifica-
tion mission visited Brazil in October 1977, followed by preparation missions
in February-March 1978 and May 1978, a pre-appraisal mission in July 1978, an
appraisal mission in September 1978, and a post-appraisal mission in December
1978. Negotiations with the Federal Government and the State of Sergipe took
place in Washington from April 16 to 20, 1979. The federal delegation was led
by Ricardo Miranda, Coordinator of POLONORDESTE, and the state delegation was
led by Gilson Hollanda, Secretary of Planning. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report: Northeast Brazil Sergipe Rural Development Project" (No.
2358-BR dated May 12, 1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.
The Project Area
39.       Sergipe ;s the smallest state in Northeast Brazil, with a land area
of about 22,000 km and a population of about 1.05 million. Agriculture is
the main economic activity; the state is the largest producer of oranges among
the northeastern states, and the fifth largest in Brazil. About 42% of the
population resides in rural areas, and the agricultural sector accounts for
about 38% of the Sergipe gross product.
40.       The 6,024 km2 project area (about 27% of the state's total land
area) encompasses 15 municipalities. Based on physical characteristics, land
use, and environmental conditions, the project area is further subdivided into
three distinct sub-areas: the Litoral and Cerrado Central sub-areas with
about 23% of the project area, and an annual average precipitation of about
1,250 mm; and the Tabuleiros e Vales sub-area (about 77% of the project area),
a great part of which is a plateau, with altitudes varying between 100 and
200 m above sea level. Average annual precipitation is around 1,000 mm, with
heavier rains as one moves from west to east. Soils are quite good and are
suited to a wide variety of crops.
41.       The project area has a population of 229,000 (according to 1976
estimates basel on the 1970 census). Average population density is 38.0
persons per km , ranging from 9.8 in the Litoral sub-area to 44.1 in the
Tabuleiros e Vales sub-area. Two-thirds of the population resides in rural
areas.  Health and education services in the project area are poorly developed
and those which do exist are mainly accessible to the urban population. The
water supply system is also unsatisfactory in rural areas. A network of
various types of roads, including the federal paved highway 101 which cuts
across the area, covers each sub-area of the project. Postal and telegraph
services exist in each municipality, but the telephone system connects only
three towns in the area with Aracaju, the state capital. Electric transmission
lines cross the project area and provide energy to the urban centers and small
towns, but only a few of the region's rural communities are thus served.



- 13 -
42.       Of the 602,000 hectares within the project area, 469,300 (or 78%)
are owned by individuals (active or absentee landlords), and 333,920 of these
are classified as arable. The distribution of agricultural land by farm size
is similar to that found elsewhere in the Northeast. Of the 24,200 farms
(of which 4,670 are non-owner operated), 22,900 (more than 90%) are under 50
hectares. Farmers with less than 50 hectares account for about 25% of the
overall area and are the project's target group; 8,400 of them are expected
to be direct project beneficiaries. The major crops grown in the project
area include coconuts, oranges, manioc, tobacco, and bananas. Farm technology
is rudimentary: fertilizers, if employed at all, are applied in insufficient
quantities; improved seeds are rarely used; orange and other fruit saplings
and plants are often purchased from unreliable sources; and the level of
farm mechanization is relatively low. Three official banks, that is, Banco
do Brasil (BB), Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), and the Banco Nacional
de Credito Cooperativo (BNCC) supply credit to area farmers. Agricultural
extension services are provided in the project area through one regional
office and seven local offices. The extension staff includes 48 technicians.
Three state agricultural experiment stations operate in the project area.
State-operated storage, mechanization and input supply services are available
through a small number of outlets. Two well-organized cooperative societies,
however, are assuming a growing role in input supply and the marketing of
produce. Consequently, marketing facilities in the project area are slightly
more advanced than in other states of the Northeast.
Project Objectives
43.       The project, which is a part of the federal Development Program
for Integrated Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), is intended to: increase
productivity and incomes, broaden economic opportunities, and generally improve
the standard of living of 8,400 small farmers and their families; raise the
contribution of the area's agricultural sector to the local and state food
supplies and to export earnings; and to develop further the technical and
administrative capacities of institutions involved in agriculture and rural
development in Sergipe. In order to achieve these objectives, the project
provides for:
(i) the expansion and strengthening of agricultural support services,
including agricultural extension, research, and land surveying
and titling services;
(ii) the intensified development of 8,400 small farms (up to 50 hectares)
and provision of credit for investment and incremental working
capital;
(iii) a colonization scheme for 1,400 small-scale farmers (owners and
non-owners);
(iv) the expansion and improvement of health and sanitation, and educa-
tion and training facilities and services;
(v) the development of basic physical infrastructure through the
construction of marketing facilities and the construction
and upgrading of feeder and access roads; and



- 14 -
(vi) organizational support for project administration, monitoring and
evaluation.
The project would be implemented over a five-year period beginning in April
1979.
Project Components
44.       Agricultural Extension.  Through an expanded and strengthened
network of agricultural and social extension services, EMATER-SE (the State
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Enterprise) would promote increased
small farmer use of improved agricultural technology and the formation of
community organizations. The project would finance training courses, equip-
ment, vehicles, minor installations; incremental operating costs (salaries,
materials and supplies, rents), and production input costs (excepting farmer
labor) for demonstration plots. The project would also introduce changes in
the structure and methodology of extension activities by encouraging speciali-
zation of function by the agricultural extensionists. The latter would pro-
vide agronomic advice to groups of up to 20 small-scale farmers organized
around contact farmers and demonstration plots. The general field exten-
sionists would be backed up by more specialized extension staff such as farm
management and credit extensionists and subject matter specialists.
45.       Agricultural Experimentation.  The proposed project component would
concentrate on the testing and adapting, under different farming systems, of
improved agricultural practices pioneered by the local agricultural research
centers. Many of the experiments would be carried out in lands owned by
cooperating farmers. Research activities will concentrate mainly on fruit
crops such as citrus, passion fruit, papaya, guava, pineapple and bananas.
Because details of the component have not yet been fully defined, a detailed
program would be prepared by the state agricultural research agencies and sub-
mitted to the Bank for comment by November 30, 1979 (see Section 7 of the
draft Project Agreement).
46.       Because of the importance of the fruit production and the prevailing
conditions in the project area, it was agreed that a nursery inspection program
and a pest control coordination program would be set up by the Superintendency
for Agriculture and Production - SUDAP. During negotiations assurances were
received that a special commission would be created by December 31, 1979 by
SUDAP, which would enter into and maintain any agreements necessary to assure
the implementation of the programs of fruit sapling inspection and pest
control coordination in the project area (see Section 16 of the draft Project
Agreement).
47.       Land Surveying and Titling Services.  The proposed land surveying
and titling component would attempt to clarify and legalize the land titles
of some 3,200 small farmers in the project area. For the execution of this
component, a special office and full-time task force would be set up by
SUDAP. The project would finance the costs of office and survey equipment,
vehicles, and materials required for four field offices serving the project
area; and the staffing, operating and maintenance costs of the component



- 15 -
during the implementation period of the project. A detailed plan of activi-
ties with respect to the component during the first year of execution of the
project would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by November 30, 1979 (see
Section 8 of the draft Project Agreement).
48.       Credit.  This component would include:  (i) incremental seasonal
credit (up to one-year) for the production of short cycle crops, for the
establishment of semi-permanent crops, and for the maintenance and improve-
ment of established permanent fruit crops. About 8,400 small farmers would
be eligible for these loans; (ii) medium and long-term credit (up to 8 years
for semi-fixed and 12 years for fixed investment) to establish permanent fruit
crops (about 6,170 farmers), for land clearing and improvement, and materials
for housing (about 1,400 participants in the colonization scheme); for on-farm
storage facilities, tools, and equipment; and (iii) credit for land purchase
(up to 20-years) to the approximately 1,400 farmers participating in the
colonization scheme. Bank funds would not be used for land purchase credit.
49.       Project credit would be channelled to farmers through six existing
and two planned branches of BB and BNB located in or near the project area,
and to cooperatives through BNCC. Credit terms and conditions would be those
established by the Government for the POLONORDESTE program. The Bank would be
informed of any modifications in credit terms (see Section 3.03 and Schedule 6
of the draft Loan Agreement). The potential disadvantages of the negative
rates applicable to POLONORDESTE projects would be mitigated in the proposed
project by all the beneficiaries being small farmers, at present below the
poverty level who, consequently, are not in a position to use loan funds to
substitute for their own resources, freeing the latter for investments outside
agriculture. There are, moreover, safeguards to ensure that the credit is
used only for the purposes for which it is intended. These safeguards include
a ceiling of 100 MVR 1/ on the total indebtedness of any beneficiary farmer,
close supervision of credit by special farm management and credit extension
agents, and monitoring of credit disbursements. Assurances were received
during negotiations that a project credit statistics and monitoring system
would be set up by December 31, 1979 by the Project Administration Unit (see
Section 5(c) of the draft Project Agreement). Since repayments of seasonal
crop production credit would be available for relending each subsequent year,
Bank disbursements for seasonal crop credit would be made only against credit
in excess of the amount extended by the project during the previous year (see
Section 3.03(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Colonization.  Successful colonization schemes have already been
carried out in recent years by the two existing cooperatives (Treze and
Estancia) operating in the project area. The proposed project component
would consist of 23 settlements of about 60 families each (1,400 families),
on 8-hectare farms. Overall coordination and supervision of the component
1/   The MVR (maior valor de referencia), established in 1975, is a standard
unit of value used in various financial transactions. Originally based
on the minimum wage, it is now adjusted each May by the cumulative index
of monetary correction for the previous 12 months. As of September 1978,
one MVR was equivalent to about US$60.



- 16 -
would be the responsibility of SUDAP through its unit for Coordination of the
Execution of Cooperative Projects and Matters (COPAC). The component would be
implemented by the existing cooperative societies. The project would finance
the purchase of the land (entirely with local funds); salaries, operating
costs, and equipment and vehicles for component planning and administration;
and, under the project credit component (para. 48), investment credit for land
clearing, purchase of light farm equipment, and materials for housing. Suffi-
cient resources would be made available to SUDAP by POLONORDESTE to maintain
the existing Cooperative Development Fund to finance land purchases during
project life (see Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
51.       The implementation of the colonization scheme requires the partici-
pation of several institutions such as SUDAP, CEPA-SE, INCRA, the cooperative
societies in the project area and EMATER-SE. Because the execution of the
colonization component would be the responsibility of the existing cooperative
societies, a Colonization Coordination Unit would be established in each
cooperative. The organizational arrangements of these units, including the
qualifications of the personnel and their duties, responsibilities and work
procedures, would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1979 (see Section 9
of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       Since the cooperatives are providing various services, and since
a farmer may simultaneously have several business transactions with the
cooperative, it is important to have a centralized and efficient accounting
and reporting system for each farmer. The cooperatives, in coordination with
the project management, expect to enter into working agreements with BNCC
to obtain technical assistance in this area. During negotiations, assurances
were received from the State that, by March 31, 1980, a plan of action for
improving farmer accounts and reporting systems has been developed (see
Section 15 of the draft Project Agreement). The formulation of this plan
would not be financed under the project but would be complementary to it.
53.       Education and Vocational Training.  This component would expand
and improve basic education facilities in the project area. The execution
of the component would be managed by the State Secretariat of Education and
Culture (SEC) with the collaboration of several other agencies. The component
would include: (a) the construction, furnishing and equipping of 45 rural
primary schools; (b) the construction, furnishing and equipping of three
Community Learning Centers (CLCs); (c) the qualitative improvement of primary
education by revising the rural lower-level (grades 1-4) primary curriculum,
organizing accelerated lower primary education programs for overaged students,
and introducing new teaching guides and materials; (d) the training and/or
upgrading of about 725 teachers, 65 school guidance counselors and 150 super-
visors active in the project area; (e) the provision of training in community
development and education for about 6,200 adults; (f) the provision of voca-
tional training through the Sergipe State Tourism Enterprise (EMSETUR) and the
National Commercial Apprenticeship Service (SENAC) for about 6,300 adults;
(g) the carrying out by SEC, under agreements with the Federal Universities of
Sergipe and Bahia, of studies on the socioeconomic characteristics and training
requirements of the target population, and projections of employment to be
generated by the project in the project area; (h) the building up of an



- 17 -
education evaluation capacity by SEC; and (i) the strengthening of SEC's
administrative and supervisory capacity for the overall project component.
The project would finance the design, civil works, equipment, and furnishings
for the primary schools and CLCs; consultancy fees and printing costs for the
development of new teaching guides and materials; costs of the teachers',
school guidance counsellors', and supervisors' upgrading program; costs of the
education and training services contracted with the Movement for Basic Educa-
tion (MEB), EMSETUR and SENAC; the costs of the studies contracted with the
Federal Universities of Sergipe and Bahia; and salaries and operating costs of
project implementation personnel within SEC during the component execution
period.
54.       During negotiations, assurances were received that (a) SEC would
select the coordinators of the CLCs before initiating the construction of
these centers; (b) by November 30 of each year the SEC would send to the
Bank for approval, details about the component work program for the following
year, and the site plans for the schools to be built in each respective year,
including the justification for the location according to the agreed criteria;
and (c) by March 31, 1980, SEC would submit to the Bank an acceptable final
draft of the revised primary curriculum, and training for introduction of new
curriculum; and the curriculum and an acceptable plan for the implementation
of the accelerated program (see Section 10 of the draft Project Agreement).
55.       Health and Sanitation Services.  The health component would provide
a wide coverage low cost health delivery system to serve, at full development,
about 65,000 people living within the influence area of the project. The
health component would be administered by the State Secretariat of Health
(SES), and would include the following: (a) the construction and equipment
of rural health posts; (b) preinvestment studies for the construction of
village water supply systems, identifying water sources, potentiality of deep
wells, quality of water and alternative solutions for water supply; (c) the
construction of water supply systems; (d) the construction of family pit
latrines to serve 1,400 new settlers; (e) the training of rural attendants,
sanitation auxiliaries, water supply operators, and supervisory auxiliary
nurses, and the carrying out of refresher courses for all rural staff and
three regional seminars; and (f) the costs of technical assistance in health
administration to help identify constraints of the regional health system,
elaborate and implement proposals for developing such a system, and train
required personnel. The project would finance construction and equipment
costs; participants' travel and boarding and the material costs of the training
program; salary complements; technical assistance; and equipment and operating
costs for health component supervision. SES would manage the health component
(organization of rural health posts, staff training, and technical assistance)
and the construction of pit latrines. Operation costs of the collective water
systems to be set up under the project in existing villages and in new settle-
ments would be financed by the municipalities, the state's sanitation company,
and contributions from the cooperative societies and the users. Because SES
has not completed detailed plans to implement the health and sanitation compo-
nent, such plans would be presented to the Bank for approval by December 31,
1979 (See Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
56.       Marketing Facilities.  The project would include the construction
and equipping, in the second year of the project, of a satellite producers'
market at Umbauba, by the State Agricultural Supply Company (CEASA). The
market would be technically and administratively dependent on the existing
market in Boquim, and fees paid by users would cover expected operation,
maintenance and capital recovery costs. The Brazilian Food Company (COBAL)
would agree that CEASA would contract the construction, operate, maintain
and finance operating costs of the satellite producers' market (see Section
14(a) of the draft Project Agreement and Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
57.       Feeder and Access Roads.  The project would finance the design and
construction or upgrading of about 560 km of low cost feeder and access roads,
and the purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare parts. The state
and federal highways in the project area are generally adequate, although the
construction of three collector roads, totalling about 41 km, has been
programmed by the State. Since these roads are needed to support the project,
assurances were received from the State during negotiations that it would
build the three collector roads by December 31, 1981 (see Section 13 of the
draft Project Agreement).  The State   Highway Department (DER-SE) has a
competent design staff and would supervise all construction through its four
Regional Residencies of which two are located in the project area. The
detailed designs for the roads would be partly carried out by DER-SE, and
partly by consultants hired under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
58.       Maintenance of municipal roads is the responsibility of each munici-
pality. However, because of the small amount of funds that municipalities
receive from national road funds, few roads actually receive any maintenance.
Therefore, to enable effective maintenance of municipal roads in the area,
the project would finance the purchase of road maintenance equipment and spare
parts. The equipment would be run and maintained by DER-SE and would be used
solely for the maintenance of municipal roads in the project area. During
negotiations, assurances were received from the State that, by November 30,
1979, it would provide for Bank comment a study indicating the equipment,
personnel, and funds needed by DER-SE and each municipality for maintaining
municipal roads in the project area. DER-SE would require strengthening to
fulfill its obligations under the project. Assurances were received during
negotiations that by December 31, 1981, DER-SE would prepare and furnish to
the Bank its program to strengthen its capacity to maintain all roads and
highways, to provide maintenance assistance to the municipalities, and to
support highway policing and vehicle weight control on state roads and highways
(see Section 12 of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       Project Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation.  Though the
project would mainly be executed by existing institutions, a Project Admin-
istration Unit (PAU), already operative in SUDAP, would coordinate the plan-
ning, implementation, and monitoring of the project. The operations staff of
the PAU would coordinate the short-term planning and implementation activities
of the numerous executing agencies. To achieve this, there would be four
operational functions within the PAU: agricultural services, production



- 19 -
support, social infrastructure, and physical infrastructure. The staff
assigned to each function would assist the relevant executing agencies to
prepare detailed annual project operating plans and would work with the
agencies in coordinating project activities and supervising the progress of
each component. The monitoring/planning staff of the PAU would deal with
monitoring, long-term planning, and special studies. This staff would be
assigned two major tasks. The first of these would be to monitor the results
of each component and advise the project executive coordinator of shortfalls
in project achievements relative to expectations. In order to carry out this
task, standardized forms would be completed quarterly by executing agencies
and forwarded to the monitoring group for synthesis into quarterly progress
reports that would be forwarded to project management, the State POLONORDESTE
Management Council, regional and federal POLONORDESTE officials, and the Bank.
Assurances were received during negotiations that the PAU would standardize
data requirements among participating agencies and establish coding and
analysis procedures, and provide to the Bank for review, not later than
December 31, 1979, a report on the recommended procedures. The second major
task of the monitor/planning staff would be to organize, administer, process,
and analyze in the first, third and fifth project years, a farm productivity
survey. The PAU would provide to the Bank for review, prior to implementation,
the recommended survey design and analysis procedures (see Section 5 of the
draft Project Agreement and Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       The State would also establish, not later than November 30, 1979, a
separate Project Evaluation Unit, directly responsible to the State POLONORDESTE
Management Council, within CEPA-SE (see Section 3(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). Evaluation would complement the monitoring activities of the PAU
and would involve a continuous advising of project management of the extent
and quality of project progress, and of implementation difficulties. Ongoing
evaluation "products" would comprise reports of topic-specific evaluation
studies, evaluations of PAU monitoring, and a major mid-project evaluation
report which would be prepared by the Project Evaluation Unit and furnished to
the Bank before March 31, 1982 (see Section 3.11(c)(iii) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The evaluation team would also prepare an ex post facto project
evaluation report to serve partly as a project completion report. Assurances
were received during negotiations that such a report would be provided to the
Bank within six months of project completion (see Section 3.11(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement), and that the Project Evaluation Unit would be maintained
after project completion, and until its functions are assumed by SUDAP (see
Section 4 of the draft Project Agreement).
61.       Operating Agreements and Procedures.  Since the project covers a
broad range of related activities, and since the timing and scope of some
would undoubtedly require some adjustment as experience is gained, flexibility
in project execution would need to be maintained. For this reason, each parti-
cipating agency would prepare jointly with the PAU an annual plan detailing
the activities and expected expenditures under the project for the following
year. The integrated package of annual plans, as reviewed and approved by
the State POLONORDESTE Management Council, would be submitted to the regional
and federal POLONORDESTE coordinating groups as a basis for yearly budget
allocations. Assurances were received during negotiations that the annual



- 20 -
plans would be submitted to the Bank by November 30 each year for review and
comment. Assurances were also received that the annual plans would receive
the prompt review of the regional POLONORDESTE coordinating group, and that
the Bank would be provided with the approved final plan by January 31 each
year (see Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Consistent with common Brazilian practice, the Federal and State
Governments would enter into written agreements (convenios) with certain of
the executing agencies to specify their respective responsibilities under the
project. Such agreements would be particularly useful in assuring adequate
participation of, and coordination among, the agencies involved in colonization,
education and training, sanitation and health, feeder and access roads, and
produce marketing. During negotiations, assurances were received from the
Federal and State Governments that they would enter into, and maintain during
project implementation, all convenios as are necessary to assure active
cooperation of the various agencies participating in the above-mentioned
components (see Sections 9(c) and (d), 10(e), 11, 12(a) and (b), and 14 of the
draft Project Agreement and Sections 3.05, 3.07(b) and (c), and 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Project Cost and Financing.  Total project costs over the five-year
project period (April 1979 - March 1984) are estimated at US$76.0 million,
which includes physical contingencies equivalent to about 5% of the baseline
cost, and price contingencies equivalent to 24% of baseline costs. Baseline
costs have been estimated at September 1978 prices. The estimated foreign
exchange component is US$13.5 million or about 18% of total project cost.
A summary of costs is presented on page (ii).
64.       The proposed Bank loan of US$26.0 million to the Federative Republic
of Brazil would finance 35% of project costs net of taxes (34% of total project
costs), the balance being provided by the Federal Government under its
POLONORDESTE program. The loan would be for 15 years including three years of
grace. It would cover the project's full foreign exchange costs of US$13.5
million equivalent, as well as US$12.5 million of the local costs. This
project has a high priority but a relatively low foreign exchange content.
Hence, if the Bank is to be effective in supporting a project of this kind, it
seems reasonable for it to finance at least 35% of the costs even though this
entails financing a part of local currency expenditures. The Government would
ensure that adequate funds would be made available for the timely execution of
the project, and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and
services developed under the project.
65.       To help assure a prompt start of the project, various activities
such as the recruitment and training of staff for the project unit and exten-
sion service, the design of feeder roads, the initiation of on-farm investments,
and provision of credit will have begun during the first half of 1979. For
this reason, retroactive financing of up to US$0.75 million equivalent is
proposed to help cover eligible expenditures after March 31, 1979 but before
the loan is signed.



- 21 -
Procurement
66.       All equipment and vehicles (totalling US$2.5 million equivalent)
required are locally produced and would be procured in accordance with local
procurement and bidding procedures, which are acceptable. Construction works
(totalling US$8.6 million) for the feeder roads would be divided into construc-
tion lots. With respect to the roads component, the Bank would review ex-ante
the standard construction bidding and contract documents, but awards would
be reviewed on an _x-post basis (see Schedule 4, Part C. 2(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Contracts for road construction and for other civil works
required for the marketing, land clearing for colonization, and education and
training facilities (an additional US$4.2 million) would be awarded to pre-
qualified bidders on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with procedures agreed with the Bank. Brazil has a competitive
local construction industry capable of carrying out the project works. Since
the individual construction works are relatively small and widely dispersed,
foreign contractors are not expected to be interested, though they would not
be excluded from bidding. Other construction works (health posts, water
supply, and the like) as well as housing materials for colonization (totalling
some US$0.7 million) would be of very minor size. Consequently, they would be
carried out through a combination of self-help, force account, and local
bidding.
Disbursements
67.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against all project expenditures
except land purchase credit. Bank disbursements would be equivalent to 38% of
expenditures for each component other than for goods and services for Part A.1
(Agricultural Extension) of the project, for which the disbursement rate
would be 27%. Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of Brazil, the
fiscal agent for the POLONORDESTE program, against withdrawal applications
covering statements of expenditures initiated by the various implementing
agencies under the project and certified by the PAU. Supporting documentation
for credit, salaries, administrative expenses and minor construction under
force account would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by the
PAU and made available for Bank inspection during project supervision.
Documentation covering civil works, vehicles and equipment, and technical
assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Disbursements for the education
and training component would be conditioned by the contracting of additional
personnel for the Planning Department of SEC, and the provision to the Bank of
satisfactory evidence of the acquisition of the sites for the schools and CLCs
(see para. 54 and Schedule 1, Section 3(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). A
condition of disbursement for the health and sanitation component would be
Bank approval of detailed proposals for implementing the component (see para.
55 and Schedule 1, Section 3(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). For the feeder
and access roads component, the contracting of two specialized engineers for
DER-SE would be a condition of disbursement (see para. 58 and Schedule 1,
Section 3(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Conditions of disbursement for
the colonization, education and training, health and sanitation, and marketing
facilities components would also be the provision to the Bank of the agree-
ments between the State and agencies participating in the respective component
(see para. 62 and Schedule 1, Sections 3(b), 3(c), 3(d), and 3(f) of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
Accounts and Auditing
68.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain accounts of its
project expenditure, which would be audited annually by Government auditors
according to standard Government practice for POLONORDESTE projects. Both
BB and BNB are audited by the Central Bank's auditing unit and BNB is also
audited by satisfactory independent auditors. The PAU would maintain accounts
of its own project expenditures as well as statements of each participating
agency. Copies of the audited statements of project accounts of the various
participating agencies and the participating banks would be provided to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (see Section 4.02 of
the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
69.       The costs of the project's agricultural investments over the five-
year implementation period (including contingencies) would average roughly
US$3,900 per direct beneficiary family. The agricultural services, social
service and physical infrastructure investments would amount to an additional
US$3,100 per direct beneficiary. The direct colonization costs per family
(1,400 families) would amount to about an additional US$3,000 excluding land
acquisition. According to existing Government agricultural development poli-
cies, low-income farmers are not expected to pay for investment costs in agri-
cultural services or social infrastructure, though villages often do contri-
bute to the maintenance of such facilities once infrastructure is developed.
The costs of the roads are recovered indirectly through various taxes and
licence fees on road users. The majority of project costs, that is, on-farm
development, land purchase, land clearing and development for the colonization
schemes, which combined amount for more than 50% of project costs, would be
recovered from farmers through the credit system. The extent to which these
costs will be recovered in real terms is difficult to estimate because of the
current inflationary environment in Brazil and the Government's policy of
providing unindexed agricultural credit. Assuming a continuing inflation
rate somewhat similar to the average of the last three years (41.6%), real
recovery of on-farm project costs could well be low. Although the increased
production of the beneficiaries of the project would probably enable them to
bear the burden of positive real interest rates for credit received, the
Government has so far chosen, particularly in view of the relatively low
incomes of the target beneficiaries for programs such as POLONORDESTE, to
maintain a considerable subsidy element in the agricultural credit component.
On the other hand, either a decline in inflation and/or a continuation of the
gradual reduction in the size of agricultural credit subsidies--linked to a
gradual dismantling of controls over agricultural prices--would result in
higher real cost recovery.
70.       Project investments would give rise to additional recurrent costs
to the Government on the order of US$2.1 million per annum after the five-year
implementation period. These recurrent expenditures are expected to be
more than offset, however, by additional revenues of roughly US$3.0 million
annually generated by taxes on the incremental production of direct partici-
pants in the agricultural components of the project.



- 23 -
Project Production and Beneficiaries
71.       At full development (about year 10 of project life), there should
be substantial increases in crop production among project participants. At
estimated 1978 farmgate prices, the average value of production per hectare
is estimated to increase by about 118% from Cr$ 9,718 to Cr$ 21,149 (US$518
to US$1,128 equivalent) at full development. The core agricultural target
group of 8,400 families, who represent the direct project beneficiaries,
presently have incomes below the rural relative poverty cutoff line in Brazil
(roughly US$330 per capita). The benefits of the social and physical infra-
structure components would accrue to some 65,000 low-income persons living in
the project area.
Benefits
72.       The expected expansion of agricultural activities by the 8,400
participating farmers should increase family employment and improve subsis-
tence, as well as increase cash revenues from marketed production. Further-
more, the project investments should also have benefits not measured by
the incremental production of project participants (e.g., demonstration
effects on "non-participating" farmers). Various components of the project,
such as social infrastructure, have significant benefits which are not readily
quantifiable, and hence an economic rate of return for these parts of the
project (education and training, health and sanitation) could not be calculated.
However, for the other project components (which represent about 85% of total
project costs), the economic rate of return has been estimated at about 27%.
73.       As a result of the project, the estimated income from agricultural
activities would increase from a weighted average of roughly US$990 equiva-
lent per family before the project to about US$3,715 equivalent at full
development or within roughly eight to 10 years. These income estimates,
it should be noted, cover only the principal activity of the farm operation.
Some of the smaller scale farmers, in particular, are likely to now earn
additional income from sharecropping, renting or laboring on other farms;
income which would probably diminish after project inception. Hence, the
difference in estimated incomes between the "before project" and "full devel-
opment" situations, and the financial rates of return to the smaller farmers,
may be overestimated.  On the other hand, since credit would not be indexed
to offset inflation, the estimated income increases projected under the
project could be understated to the extent that the real debt service burden
to the farmer declines. Financial rates of return to the farmer were tested
on illustrative farm models and were found to range from 22% to over 45%.
Risks
74.       Timely implementation of a wide variety of investments and activ-
ities in various sectors by numerous agencies is a prerequisite for the pro-
ject's success. The risk of not achieving adequate coordination and active
participation is, however, lessened by the arrangements being made by the
State to use existing agencies for project implementation, to involve directly
high level officials of the principal participating agencies in the state's
POLONORDESTE M4anagement Council, and to establish a special Project Administ-
ration Unit. Another type of risk lies in the fact that the experience of the



- 24 -
participating agencies in carrying out programs directed specifically and
intensively at small-scale farmers is relatively recent. The preparation and
review of detailed annual work plans with each participating agency and the
carrying out of project monitoring and evaluation should help resolve problems
which might arise in this regard. There is also a price risk on the high
value crops included in the agricultural development plan devised for the
project area as there is a possibility that some products may encounter
marketing problems. There is, for some crops, the added risk that expected
yields (and hence expected producers' incomes) would not be attained because
of unusually adverse natural conditions or unforeseen technical problems.
However, the highly diversified agricultural plans, the various alternative
farm types, the project experimentation and extension services, and the
marketing arrangements being made should help alleviate risks and resolve
problems in this regard. Overall, the potential of the project to benefit
some 65,000 lower income people, and to strengthen the project execution
capacity of institutions that serve the rural poor, make the project risks
acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Sergipe and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special disbursement conditions are described in para. 67.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 16, 1979
Washington, D.C.



25 -                                                ANNEX I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                     REnRlENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT EST1MATE)
TOTAL           8512.0                                                    SANE        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    2066.0                                M1ST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  320.0       580.0    1390.0           1066.7     1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0        474.0     670.0           911.1      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        69.8         92.8     113.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5         55.7      61.4             57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        8.0         11.0      13.3             25.6       27.6        55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     44.0         49.0      55.0             77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE Srr[UCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.0         42.0      41.7            42.0        34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         55.0      55.1            52.2        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         3.0       3.2              3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0         3.0       2.8              2.7        1.6         2.9
URBAN                               5.5         5.0       4.4              4.3        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      40.8        38.4      37.1             35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.7         9.9       8.8              9.1        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.6         2.6       2.5              2.6        1.9         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TWOUSANDS)        ..       111.0     203.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          1.6        *-             15.1       19.3.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             87.8        100.0     112.3            102.1      103.8       114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0       104.0     105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           61.0        64.0      62.1            60.3        77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       38.0         39.0      33.6             26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..          ..        ..              8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0         59.4      61.4             62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           180.0       110.0        ..             56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        56.3      71.7             60.7       67.7        83.0
URBAN                                ..        77.7      83.2             78.0       83.5       100.0
RUBAL                               ..         29.0      52.9             34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERC1NT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        59.9      65.5             61.1       70.3        57.8
URBAN                               ..         86.1      86.3             80.3       90.7        99.3
RURAL                                ..        26.5      39.0             25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2170.0      1910.0    1650.0 /f        1899.3     1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3220.0    2920.0 If        1220.1      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             275.0       260.0     260.0            422.3      275.4       325.8
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            258.2      129.9       250.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        18.0         ..            25.6       18.9         18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1         4.8        ..              5.2        3.9
URBAN                                ..         4.6         ..
RU'RAL                              ..          5.2        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         1.1       1.1 If           2.0        0.9
URBAN                                ..         1.0       1.2 7?           2.1        0.8
RURAL                                ..         1.2        1.2 If          2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
-OTAL                              38.7        47.6      55.1             51.2       59.2
'JRBAN                               ..        75.6      77.9             77.3       78.0
RURAL                                *-         8.4      1-2.5            ;2.8       12.5



- 26 -
ANNEX I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION  Gc GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        83.0      90.0            103.5       97.6       104.1
FEMALE               93.0        83.0      90.0           102.9       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        27.0      26.0            37.2        47.8        44.7
FEMALE               10.0        27.0      20.0            37.9       42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 19.0        17.0      47.0 /a          14.7       22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        28.0      22.0            32.8        25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                         13.0        13.0      11.0            17.8        24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        66.0        ..             74.9       96.3
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        25.0      35.0            26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.0        60-0      60.0            173.5      201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0      83.0            69.4       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POFULATION                 54.0        37.0      39.0            72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTERDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         1.9        ..              4.3        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL IABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0     29400.0  34100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.5        20.4      21.6            21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             52.0        40.4      37.8            37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8        18.3        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0        31.6      31.5            30.8        33.7        40.1
MALE                                52.7        50.3      49.5            47.2        50.8        55.8
FEMALE                              11.2        12.8      13.6            13.2        12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.5       1.4              1.7        1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   27.7 /h     34.9 /h    ..             28.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  54.4 A      62.2 /h    ..             57.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5  h      3.2 7F    *-              3.2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 /h     10.0 lh    ..              10.7       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URgBAL                              ..          ..        ..251.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     150.0           200.6       157.9
EST MATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    465.0            403.1      448.8
RURAL                               ,-          *-     332.0           258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      34.0            24.8        23.2
RURAL                               .-          *-      55.0            65.2        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of te indicator and thq moat populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, becween 1973 and 1977.
/c    Lacin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  Ie High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1972;  fg  Beginning 1973, duration of ge-neral education reduced
from 7 to s years, therefore data may not be comparable to those of earlier years;  /h  Data refer
to economically active population.
September, 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                      ERiV1      -
Hot: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water end excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme velues.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Tocal - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally cuctodiaj
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and sedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consamption of coonerial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gee-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     hOUSING
Averaae sioe of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household for statistical purposes.    Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal ads-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since same pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed an above; secondary ecuca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational instituttons in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Ftaily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able no read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise ector curs
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imponts less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:; ocludes unlicorsed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets ooa in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and se. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers Ir cor-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average ocr-rila-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical cobls-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is c.nsc.e.e- tc
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least fasr times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of ciccets
these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in diremas and molie
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survev.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulso - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor farce (thousands) - Ec.oomically sctiee persons, Including ar.ed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Cefini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countrien are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Femaie labor force as percentage of ceta1 laber force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting ancd fishig
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industrv (percent) - Labor force in mining, constructi.o, .anufact-ricl  cod
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labcr force.
Infant mortality rate (per tbu-sand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Jotal, male, anld
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                'emale labor  force as percentageo  of their respectcv oso. scions
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urbsn, and rural -                    These are  I,'s adjusted participation rates retliectiecant-se'
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the population, rnd long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated bat                   Economic depend..c. ratio - Ratio of population  Iorder 1- ard it aid ovd
uncon-tuinated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in agt group of L5-64 s-ears.
and s-nhtary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
:a an atbla  area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
thar '2C0 meters from  a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by rcihert
cunable access of that house.  On rural areas reasosable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, cud p-crest 40 pec-ct
Lmply :nat ths housewife or nenbers of the household do nor have to                      of householdo.
uneod a disproporcionare part of the day in fetching the far.ilv's
water ceeds.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
-ccess tc eocreta disycual (percent cf population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolure poverty income level kSf0  per op.ia) - orion 2nd rca.-
rural - Nu-.er of .o.ple (total, urban.  ant rtra') served by encreta                      Absolute poverty income level :s that incone  cel  elot 1 'h  -  -h1-.,
i--tsuui  S o-rcan-aecs of their rospect-'e populations.  Eocteta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus  ussential -no-food  -equ -rerots is ocx
ar- icalde the collectio- and disyooal.  with or withcut                       affordable.
-eat-t,    bu hnc  eroreta  nd wa-ste-water  o . ater-.or-.e -     syutems           Eitimated relati-e poverty iscomn l,,sl (101 per .-piia) - _rba  aid rc;t-
-t'e  .se *E sit  -:-:ae arc c- r inscal'atLoss.                                      Relative pover-  -cone level is that income Laeve  l-s i- thu
cloorer  ub or  a           'oco c:'.. coi,do-  honumber -rof prat-ing                   yer capita personal ircme  of the countr.
~-:-fla-.s qu  'faed           Tcm  a  -eooal school at universitv level.             Estimated populatio. below poverty iacome              _eo-el p1rcoot  - urban 3.    - -. i
'rio cisor. pnermc qrios>m05 prso  -  .puotion dividod oy nunber of                       Percont of population  (urban and rural) w" ore 'c ci                        r'
^r-.ti-c cog       "-d   '-nal-cersato nucuec, practical nurses, and                     "relative poor" whicbecer is greater.
Ecomncl  kooks -c  :rd "'           -   --



Pace 4
0(000010 DEVFI ,MENTOC ATA 31F1Ff
A DCXI      .                                                   PROJ E CT ED                                              A--,,lNRal -ewh Ra-
19 74         1 9 75        1976           1 977         19 781         8979          1 980          1 969         1990        1 9 71-77    1978 -80    1981- 8    1986- 9(1       19 74      19 77      1980      198 5      1998
A.         NAO1M.. ACCOUNTS
I  ci   11S  o  1977  pricer)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A. Percen   f0020
lomt-c~ ?r,oc-                                     117,494       124, 166       13 5,302      141, 596       1 50, 561     159 ,7 36      109,17 6      2 51.7 02      390, 306         6. 5        6.1           .  8.5   69           99. 8      97. 9     100.3      180. 3     99. 3
f,,,, J,                                ~~~~~2 58     -             lOlA,         3,7084           444            68           -43 6          624         2,79 1          .                                                 . 2       2. 1      -0. 3      -8.,3     8. 7
3.          I,    oor117,071                                          124,1 66      1 36, 316      144,680       l5l,02D5       1 9, 804      166, 740       7 54 , 578    393, 087         7. 1         3. 3         8. 6       9I         100 N      100.8      100.        0.        8.
-   (nor,,.                                    ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~15,406  14 ,3 33  14,2 30  14,14 5  14,984  14,481   14,70 8        71, 582       25,783          2. 8        0. 3         8. 6      17. 6         1 3.1       9. 8       8. 5       8. 5     9. 1
- Oclose                             0~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~             ~ ~~~~~ ~~,6631  9,1477 1 9,307  9,712I  10,671  l:11,89 11:    3,23   1  3,295         111 7,2!        3.9I       10.2          8.         8.            7.4       6.7         1~ P.     7.6       74
CT A74,.ctrd                       6,923         947           ID5T          1,9             115          1.              257          1991            1,07          57I.                      9.I.                     .          .         7.4        7.8       8.
8      1cc87,195                                                       97,593        106 ,571      11II7.531      12 1, 258     82 6,019       131,199       193, 949      796,6            8.6          1.5          6.1        8974 .1                77.        77.        762        65
'cot- Them                37,732        31,479         33,116        34,436        33,636         36,307        39,212         62292        100.303          2.4         4.4           9.7      10.0          31.4       23.8       23.2       24.5     25.5 92  0n,03  24  4  ~ 7    'o90  3 . 4 23. 23." 24,5  2 . 5
10    Sat,ooc I lacing-                  29,770        74,471         27,170        29,707        26,186         37,753        33,86D         50,152        90,000          0.7         4.5         10.726, B  10.1'.       224.8       28.3       228.1     222.11    23.1
I I   Dr,-c ,c  S.o,,e                                          3057           2 6 ,573      29,801         33,009        29,767         33 ,705       37,541         67,69          I6,272 2       7.7'        4.3l        10.1         9.7         7 5 .9     22.9'      222       238        4.
cc   f US   ,   .rcr    rie,
1  lepe,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                As Penc ant of Total Iceocre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  ~1    ~   2
coo [food-                         1-59          0~~~~    ~ ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~       ~ ~~~~,:199  1,391  1,~211  1:,760 ,76  1,0    ,64455                       .           .            72         77          115        1.         12.        11.6~    18.
lotrc.cdic,c  Cocdc                  ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~       ~~5.223  5,7 207  3,7513  3,8317  4,250       4,7101         4,043         0,964        10,06          -3.1        -4.2          4.2       13.7          41.3       32.4       25.7       21.9     25.6
uc"I.,cc  Dod,1                                                        ,34          3,69           3107           3.7           3,08o         3,905          9,7          19685         -11.5         1.2         12.4       10.0          24 .7      25.0       24.9       38.2     29.
tota I.606,F                                      12,041        17,710         12,363        17,07 23       13,039         14,554        15,701        31.701         045, 947       -5.7         0.3          7 .7      10.8        100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0    180.8
Eo--r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A. Percent f cT-'alEnp-r
Colece                                       980~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  934  2,~370  ,6 22,062                    ,11          776            3,5            ,6            9.3        16.8          3.         3.0          1,2.3      21:.7      13.3       95          .
64 1      1,02            1,080            903         l,OoS9           999         1,095         0,74            ,05         -1.0          2 .3         4.7        4.6           8.        00         63           .1      5.
......rrto   C.',o                                     634          645             769           968          7,38          146            1,581         3,234         6,11          76.0         6.2           7.7       77            80         8.91                  89       84
-acfcoodSod                                      2,086        2 ,379         27,4o9          3,7083        4,614          5,3 95        6,747        15,914         35,795         13.0        10.2         12.0       12.          26.42       227 .9    39.        43.       49,:4
Othco 0007.                                 ~~~~         ~~~~            ~~~~          ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~195  709  381  278  11  37  30  439        772187                  00           2.5        7.:6          2.         23          .1        15         11
Total  COOtl                                        7,951        cR670         10,126         12 ,2 20      07,651         14,967        17,268         30.350        7 2 ,4 53       3.9        10.5           7.8       8.5         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0    188.8
C.    ECTOR 0050111T
1,  OgrOot lt,,re                         10.8          10.5         ~~~~~           ~~~~~         ~~~~~          ~~~~~         ~~~~ ~~~~~~10.  105 10.1  10.5  10.3  6.0  7.5l  15.    5.           5.2        5.2
33.2  39.4  40.1         33.7           33.3         ~~~~      ~    ~~~~          ~~~~ ~       ~ ~~ ~          ~~~39.,3  39:2  39.  3.  0.  57 87  9.0
3.  Seroicot                       SD.0         50.1          49.3            49.8           50.0          50.1          50.5           51.7          52.7          6.4         6.6          9.0        9.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90  9  n  5 I  :  527  64  90 
0.         201004  (1975 lOOt
I.  Erpoc>  Orror loAm                            ~~~         ~~~~           ~~~~           ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~98  100  112  133  127  133  140  202      207        10.4         1.7           7. 6      5.7
7   lop,r, Price Indo                                               98          100            105             112           12             13             44            134           242         4.0         8.7           6.1        4.
39   7__ 1 Trado lode                                              IDO          10             109            119            106            10 2           97            104           110
G--cr,l Onion lon7                                                            1000           1041           202            280            ..                                   
5.dAta-,. Eoho-go  Rot                                            84          100            131            174            222                           ...
E.        0ELECTED 7 NDI_CATttO                                       19 7 5.77    197-810        1981-65        1906-90                                                      0,         OOEPLOO840N                            1970               1975
1.   1000,                                                    4 7131       3,124           2 .9251        2.79                                                               .lbrFnc    nlt                             29.4              34.1
Elacii.-094                                                        0.844           100             .86                                                              2.Oepl.eo
3   A-erac NoticoaI S-oing, Rote                                 3.213        0.193          0.2102         0.0220                                                                    75o7..                                 ,5               5,0
1!ja  Co, .tt-l S-rcog, R-,                             0 .300       0.413           7.207         0.289                                                              3.  EFoploo-to   (edilir)
Ico, CO                                                         .107       0.01            0.05           0.089                                                                         ...sares                        2 7.2             32.4
ocr 00/                                 0~~~~ ~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~.240  0.228 1 0.23I9  0.45..1                                                     gerIo                                43.8              39.5
7.R-    C .4 GP                                          0.025        0.017           0.008         0.009                                                           3.2.  mAcmo-,1869.
F   000011I - 164900                                            L 97 4        197 5           1974          19773810
(A-,eOcct0I0.5                                                                 9.D1.2                        9.
SocinTn.1.2                                                               0.8            1.              1.
C-n,,l Enpr-dir..r-                                           0.6          0.8            1.0             1.2
IoonnFiend Copical Fce-,clc-                              0.4          0.4            0.4            0.4
iral  trootlne,.                                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apr11  5. 1979
T,                                                                                                          1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Is  rho- boll the soal lest ~ h.



ANNEY 1
Page 5
IBLANCE OF       NT  ANSD EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million Us$)
A C T U A L                            PRELIMINARY              P R O J E C 1 I   D7
1974          1975           1976           1977             1978           1979           199(          1985           1990
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.      Exports (in-l. NFS)                         8,471          9,376        10),797        12,909           13,376         15,704         18,124         38,648         76,818
2.      ImPorts (intl. XIS)                        14,678        14,308         13,475         14 020           15 767         16 730         18,064         36,639         75,958
3.     Resource Balance                            -6,207        -4,932         -3,678         -1,212           -2,391         -1 02c             00          2,013            860
4.      Net Facttr Ser-vie Tn--e                    - 9l1        -1,770         -2,339         -2,825           -3,472         -3,838         -4,297         -1,454        -11.589
a. NetL  nterest Payments                      - 652         -1,498         -1,8(9        -2,104           -2,500         -2,880         -3,234         -5,288         -8,145
b6  Direct I-ynremt-t Ir-Ton.                  - 248          - 235          - 380         - 455             - 575          - 542          - 590        -1,030         -1,775
c. Other FPLort   Service Intone               -  lo          -  37          - 15(         - 266             - 345          - 416         - 473         -1,136         -1,669
5.     Current Transfers (Nct)                          1              2              4            -                76               7             7              7              7
6.     3alaoce en Currenl Ac-o-nL                  -7.122        -6,700         -6,013         -4,037           -5,735         -4,857          -4,230        -5.434        -10.723
7.     Net Pri-ate Direct InvestmenL                  887            892            962           81(              800            770            760            790            750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Lans
a. Tradiional S-lerte-/
(i) Disburse.n.ts                        1,956          1,612          2,054          2,553            2,888          3,722          4,204          7,035         11,230
(ii) AmorLianLion                          - 739         - 992         -1,350         -1,701           -1,842         -1,652         -1,960         -4,421         -7,048
(iii) Net Dinbr.semeots                     1,217            620            703           852            1,046          2,070          2,244          2,614          4,182
b. Financial Credics
(i) Disb-rsements                        5,103          4,S24          5,978          5,940           11,364          3,168          7,247          9,088         17,765
(ii) Amertization                        -1,181         -1,194         -1,669         -2,426           -3,526         -4,150         -5,734         -5,920         -9,719
(iii) Net Disbursements                     3,922         3,330          4,309          3,514            7,838          - 982          1,513          3,168          8.046
9.     Use of IMF Resources                           -                7            -             -                -               -             -               -             -
10.     Short-term Capital and Capital n-.i.    138                   789         2,294          - 440            - 122             -                     -              -
11.     Resrve.s (-= increasg)
a. Reserve Acc-m-lation-                          958         1,062         -2,259          - 699           -3,825          2,999          - 287         -1,098         -2,257
b. Dollar Valuation AdjastoeLt                    185           17h          - 252          -  16            - 6b0            -              -              -              -
c. Changes in Reserve LevelL/                  1,143          1,238         -2,507          - 715           -4,485          2,999          - 287         -1,098         -2, 255
12.     Foreign Enchange Reserves                    5,272          4,034          6,541         7,256           11,741          8,742          9,029         1n.127         12 392
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and  .oan Commitnents
1.     Total M&LT Looms                             7,179          7,005          9.482         9,738           15,349
1.1    13RD                                           242            426            498           425               705
1.2    IDP                                            203            167            186            270              300
1.3    Governments                                    518            512          1,251         1,184            1,311
1.4    Suippliers                                   1,088          1,376          1,300         1,100            1,186
1.5    Bonds                                           25            -              269            819           1,000
1.6    Financial CrediLs                            5,103          4,524          5,978          5,940           10,847
u.  memorandum Items
1.     Grant Element of Total ConmiLmeets                2.5           2.5            2.5            2.8              ...
2.     Average Interest (Percert)                        9.5            9.5           9.4            9.3              8.2
3.     Average Materitv (Years)                          9.0            9.9           8.3            8.9             10.6
a/ Includes multilateral agencies, hilatetral lenders, suppliers' credits and hond lsses.
b/  IFS Line 79d.
c /  IFS Line Id.                                                                                                                                                                     Aeril 159'9
...not available



- 30 -
AMINEX 1
Piage 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                        Preliminary
1974         1975         1976          19i7          1978
A. Medium- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                           17,166       21,171        25,985       32,C37        40,968
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                       11,211       14,561        18,194       21,528        28,849
(2) Traditional Lenders!/                                    5,955        6,610         7,791       10,509        12,119
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                           8,533       11,461        14,852       19,209        24,704
(2) Private                                                  8,633        9,710        11,133       12,729        16,264
2,  Net Debt Service                                                  2,572        3,683         4,825        6,231         7,851
a.  Total Interest                                               1,370         1,863        2,091         2,462         3,200
b.  Net Interest                                                    652        1,498        1,810         2,103         2,500
3.  Public Debt Service                                               1,287        1,550         1,982        2,505         3,923
-  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratiob/                                           30.4          39.3         44.7          48.6         58.7
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratioc/                                     33.3         41.8          48.2          52.2         63.0
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                          15.2          16.5         18.4          19.6         29.3
4.  Liquidity Ratiod/                                                  23.0          33.3         43.0          39.2          ...
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                                2.3           3.0          3.3           3.8          4.1
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                             1.2           1.3          1.4           1.5          2.0
7.  Total DOD/GDP                                                      15.6         17.1          17.8         19.3          21.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DODe/                                  10.9          10.9          9.9           9.5         10.0
2.  Net Debt Service/Total Dooe/                                       20.5          21.5         22.8          24.0         24.5
D.  Dependency Ratios fcr M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                            48.1          42.9         55.5          60.6         90.4
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)f/                                 25.7          14.6         20.2          13.6         36.1
3.  Net Transfer/Grcss Disbursements                                   53.4          34.0         36.4          22.4         39.9
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Diab./Gross Total Disb.                                        3.5           4.1          2.2           3.5          2.6
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                  4.9           5.2          5.0           4.8          4.6
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                  3.0           2.5          2.4           2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                Outstanding December 31, 1978 (Prel.)
Amount                                  Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                   1,812                                    4.4
2.  Other Multilateral                                                       995                                    2.5
3.  Governments                                                            3,328                                    8.1
4.  Suppliers                                                              3,570                                    8.7
5.  Bonds                                                                 2,208                                     5.4
6.  Financial Credits                                                    28,849                                    70.4
7.  Other                                                                    206                                    0.5
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                      40,968                                   100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                               24,704 (est.)                             60.3
G.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1979-85/Total DOD end of 1978                                               209.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/ Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calculated on the basis of net rather than gross interest payments ill
order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
April 5, 1979



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                             Ports               45.0          11.4
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica              Industry            64.5            .1
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas        Power               60.0            .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                             Land Settlement      6.7           1.5
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0          35.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       54.0          31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          32.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply        36.0           3.2
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5          17.8
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0          28.5
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          35.8
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          76.8
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          54.8
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0          16.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          37.2
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0           11.0
1206   1976  Brazil                             Development Bank   85.0           68.7
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0          36.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          50.0          15.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de            Power               52.0          34.1
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                       Power                50.0          40.2
1302    1976  Brazil                           Nutrition             19.0         18.2
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0          29.2
1317    1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry        83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                        Power                82.0          48.8
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   42.0           28.3
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0          60.2
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer           82.0          51.6
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                           Education            32.0          31.0
1488    1977  Brazil                           Rural Development   17.0           16.4
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0         110.0
1537    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   24.0           23.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power               130.0         130.0
1557    1978  Brazil                           Roads               114.0         114.0
1562    1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals       85.0          82.5
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport      88.0          84.5
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0          100.0
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0           37.0
1654 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              93.0
1656 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             100.0
1660 /_  1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum             98.0          98.0
Total                                             4,178.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                541.0
Total now outstanding                             3,637.2
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            37.7            8.1
Total now held by Bank                            3,629.1
Total undisbursed                                                1.981.0
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
~ 33 -                                     Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1979)
Fiscal Year                            Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                       Electrical Equipment         2.00       -       2.00
1958               olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper               1.20       -       1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                             Automotive Parts             0.45       -       0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                      Motor Vehicles               2.45       -        2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                  Cement                       1.20       -       1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                      Pulp                         4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                          Steel                        8.00     1.93      9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                           Pulp and Paper               3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                           Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals               5.50     2.88      8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                      Petrochemicals               5.50     2.88      8.38
1971               Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals               4.60     1.44      6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                    Pulp                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                  Steel                      76.96      7.50    84.46
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                     Capital Market
Development                5.00       -        5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                       Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                    Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                    Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment            6.00        -       6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                             Textiles                   31.00       -       31.00
1975               Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                             Carbon Black                6.18      1.08      7.26
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals             10.00       -       10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                Textiles                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976               Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                Textiles                    6.00       -        6.00
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                              Iron and Aluminum
Castings                  20.00       -       20.00
1977               Nineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                  Mining                     15.00       -       15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                      Iron and Steel               7.0       3.0     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                                355.53    39.69   395.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                 261.74      8.51   270.25
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                       93.79    31.18   124.97
Total Undisbursed                                                                       64.38      6.94    71.32



34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 11
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980. Accordingly, a postponement of the closing date will be
required. In spite of tariff increases, the financial condition of
the Port of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation
for civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Proiect, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was substantially
completed in September 1978 at a total project cost of US$970.4
million. This is twenty-six months behind the appraisal schedule
and at a cost of US$593.6 million (157%) higher than anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Production reached 2.05 million tons
of raw steel equivalent in 1978 compared with 1.54 million tons
in 1977 and 2.34 million tons forecast for 1979 when the plant
is operating at full capacity. In spite of the capital cost
increase the project remains competitive because of the corre-
sponding increase in international prices in steel. Emphasis
will now be placed by management on reducing production costs
and financial and administrative expenses to improve internal
cash generation.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule.  An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does
not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. The first four units of the
power plant were commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The road component of the project now completed was reduced from the
original 306 km to 238 km. The settlement agency, COLONE, has pre-
pared revised farm development plans whose credit component, to be
financed by public financial institutions, will be significantly
higher than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release
of public funds for farm credit, road construction and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project staff de-
layed the start of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered
by the lack of assured financing, and this problem is compounded by
cost overruns presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 65% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the new Government, which took office in March 1979,
on the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of March 31, 1979, 91% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed. It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979.  In early 1979, the Government increased COPASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and has started to make payments to the railway to meet
deficits on uneconomic services. These actions should significantly
improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project is being revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III is proceeding at a reduced pace in part because of un-
certainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds to fully
finance the project. COSIPA has released the preliminary report of
the project based on the revision mentioned above. The preliminary
estimate of the revised project cost is US$1.7 billion which is
44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project remains
economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Proiect:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. An assessment
of the damage caused by the recent flooding will be made as soon
as the waters recede, so that a further estimate of the cost of
the project may be made.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. The
Government recently deregulated most freight tariffs and is starting
to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport Master Plan
indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will be required.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily in the
areas of extension, marketing, applied research, and health. Two
potential problems could affect Phase II implementation: (i) the
possibility of a severe drought, and (ii) the relocation of the
POLONORDESTE program between government agencies and between cities,
and the possibility of a reorganization.  The change in state
administration is having a favorable impact on the project. The new
administration is already taking drought-relief measures and has
indicated its strong support of the project, particularly of Phase
II implementation.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) differences between the relending terms of the agencies concerned
and those required under the Loan Agreement; (ii) a leveling off of
the industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates
and a general slow-down in investments. The Closing Date for
this loan has been postponed to September 30, 1979 to allow dis-
bursements to continue while the Government and the Bank hold
discussions concerning the project.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Six sub-loans totalling US$106 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$25 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be
committed by September/October 1979.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA, which took place after federal and state
elections. Imposed hiring constraints significantly affected
the civil works, consultant services, and training components of
this project. The outlook for the remainder of 1979 should be more
favorable with a resumption of normal hiring procedures since the
new government has now taken office.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily. After a slow start, the agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
understaffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components are behind schedule because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the staffing
problems are being studied by the new government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state. It is envisaged that the closing date will have
to be extended by one year to September 30, 1981, to allow for
completion of disbursements.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
gathering momentum. Mainly as a result of administrative difficul-
ties, participation in this project by landless producers is signif-
icantly lower than originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by
the state government and the participating banks have improved this
situation recently. The health component has advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well. Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of Hay 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
component of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1. 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed. The
Bank has approved the subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is
examining the proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Proiect:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Implementation of the
project has advanced satisfactorily after initial local funding delays,
and substantial progress is being made in the majority of the components.
Discussions with the new government concerning the difficulties en-
countered in implementing the land purchase credit component of the
project are now underway.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SERGIPE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately 10 months
(from November 1977 -
September 1978)
(b) Project prepared by: CEPA-SE
(c) First presentation of the Bank: August 1977
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: September 11, 1978
(e) Completion of Negotiations: April 20, 1979
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: October 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) A detailed program for the agricultural experimentation component
would be submitted to the Bank for comment by November 30, 1979
(para. 45).
(b) A special commission would be set up by December 31, 1979 by
SUDAP, which would enter into and maintain any agreements
necessary to assure the implementation of fruit sapling
inspection and pest control coordination in the project area
(para. 46).
(c) A ceiling of 100 MVR would be placed on the total indebtedness
of any single credit beneficiary and the Bank would be informed
of any modifications in credit terms (para. 49).
(d) Sufficient resources would be made available to SUDAP by POLONORDESTE
to maintain the existing Cooperative Development Fund to finance
land purchases during project life in support of the colonization
component (para. 50).



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) A Colonization Coordination Unit would be established in each
cooperative having responsibility for executing the coloniza-
tion component, and the organizational arrangements of these
units, including the qualifications of the personnel and their
duties, responsibilities and work procedures, would be submitted
to the Bank by December 31, 1979 (para. 51).
(f)   Proposals for implementing the health and sanitation component
would be presented to the Bank by December 31, 1979, and
approval of these proposals by the Bank would be a condition
of disbursement (see paras. 55 and 67).
(g)   A Project Evaluation Unit would be established within CEPA-SE
not later than November 30, 1979 and this Unit would be maintained
after project completion, and until its functions are assumed by
SUDAP (para. 60).
(h)   The State would enter into, and maintain during project implemen-
tation, all contractual agreements as are necessary to assure
active cooperation of the various agencies participating in the
colonization, health and sanitation, education and training, and
marketing facilities components; the provision to the Bank of
these agreements would be a condition of disbursement (paras. 62
and 67).
(i)   As a condition of disbursement for the education and training
component, additional personnel would be contracted for the
Planning Department of SEC, and the Bank would be provided
with satisfactory evidence of the acquisition of the sites
for the schools and CLCs (see para. 67).
(j)   As a condition of disbursement for the feeder and access roads
component, two specialized engineers would be contracted for
DER-SE (para. 67).



BRAZIL
STATE OF SERGIPE
TABULEIROS SUL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
N                                 '0CO REDONDO
IC'                      'T' \1  0'
TO 26<5U O                                   ) 6006.3 S 6T -r ACE O
Tlo 1E1'M.-jO                       SN,°,LAR            A            X                 t         R P
_10w30^                                                 }               \                               DAS DOR 5  e            <         (>                                            p                 L0t30'D
<
'N'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EMBRAPA R~E-7i36' 5t60#-I
L  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~['~~~~~~~~~~~//       ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           EAAE   S    g-dOf
-'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OB43!    TOO LORIII A
-  9-  VeM3- ATRSE L.6l Off-
k At @ E R 0 CA -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                      mtbe .  .PdhY 1eLUs3 JS'IOGRAPHC SU.V7S-AREA/  D
H   ____ __ __E~ ___ 
>  i : p    /   tA*t  u the Wdd=EOf t.SenoneG whrch r .^ aTd Cb~ p ~oh W= S ekd tS                        O      A      6      24      2     4LW.a, 
_    f    ,   /  3       sc  .,f   d   V/   dg.  15r U . .# 't! socoa : azz temsz w1 wrvrm. fv e Ls/ I 1 I -  _ 1__3 E
13!_ X 3ncepo3c.ossucebaordnres <_ 0 r LOIAETEE5 ; _ L3~~Vi



