CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1714 BR
Loan Agreement
(Sergipe Rural Development
Project-Tabuleiros Sul)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
Dated June 20, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1714 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1979, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONA!L BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "State" means the State of Sergip,,. of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
State and the Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(c) "Project Area" means an area within the State of
about 6,000 square kilometers (6,000 km2) which comprises
the municipalities listed in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(d) "POLONORDESTE" means the special development program for
the Northeast of Brazil established pursuant to Decreto No. 74794,
dated October 30, 1974, of the Borrower;
(e) "SUDAP" means the Superintendencia da Agricultura e da
Produglo, the State's Superintendency for Agriculture and
Production;
(f) "UTA" means the Administration Technical Unit, within
SUDAP, established under the State's Decree No. 3408 of July 9,
1976, as amended by Decree No. 3493 of September 27, 1976, for


﻿-2-
the purposes of the projects to be carried out within the State
under POLONORDESTE;
(g) "CEPA-SE" means Comisslo Estadual de Planejamento
Agricola - Sergipe, the State's Agricultural Planning Committee;
(h) "Project Administration Unit" means the project manage-
ment unit to be established for purposes of the Project within
UTA;
(i) "Project Evaluation Unit" means the unit to be estab-
lished within CEPA-SE in accordance with Section 3 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
(j) "Sub-loan" means a loan made for purposes of Part
B.1 of the Project, by a Participating Bank to a small-scale
farmer  (including a sharecropper and tenant) in the Project Area,
which the Borrower has financed or will finance partially out of
the proceeds of the Loan and which, when added to the outstanding
unpaid balance of other sub-loans made to the same beneficiary
does not exceed the equivalent, at the time the loan is made,
of 100 times the highest valor de referencia;
(k) "valor de referencia" means the monetary correction
factor periodically established by the Borrower pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 6205, dated April 29, 1975, and the Borrower's
Decree No. 75704, dated May 8, 1975;
(1) "Participating Bank" means any of the banks (other
than Banco Central do Brasil) referred to in paragraph (c) of
Section 3.03 of this Agreement or accepted by the Borrower and the
Bank pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph;
(m) "Cooperative" means each of the cooperatives now
operating in the Project Area, namely, the Cooperativa Agricola
Mista e de Colonizaglo do Treze, and the Cooperativa Agricola
Mista   de Colonizaglo de Estancia;
(n) "EMATER-SE" means the Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica
e Extenslo Rural-Sergipe, the State's Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Enterprise;
(o) "INCRA" means Instituto Nacional de Colonizago e
Reforma Agraria, the Borrower's Nacional Institute of Colonization
and Agrarian Reform;


﻿-3-
(p) "DER-SE" means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de
Sergipe, the State's Highways Department;
(q) "Municipality" means each of the municipalities included
in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement;
(r) "COBAL" means Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazi-
lian Food Company), a corporation controlled by the Borrower, or
any successor thereto;
(s) "CEASA" means Companhia Estadual de Abastecimento
S.A. (State Supply Company), a corporation controlled by the
Borrower and which is engaged in the agricultural supply business;
and
(t) "Target Population" means about 8,400 small low-income
farmers (including sharecroppers and tenants) residing in the
Project Area.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between t.he Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
amm                                                        manum.mata..


﻿Section 2.05.   The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth ir, Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central do Brasil is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of takirig any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
or cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(a) above or any of its obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the administration, monitoring and evaluation
activities related to the Project which are referred to in Section
3 of the Project Agreement, to be performed in accordance with the
provisions of such Section and POLONORDESTE regulations.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to cause the State to employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank, in order to assist: (a) the


﻿-5-
State's Secretariat of Education and Culture, in respect of the
activities referred to in Part D.7 and Part D.8 of the Project;
(b) the State's Secretariat of Health, in respect of the activi-
ties referred to in Part E.6 of the Project; (c) DER-SE in thee
preparation of the engineering design for the roads included in
Part F of the Project, in the supervision of the construction
thereof and in the provision of technical assistance for road
maintenance to the Municipalities; (d) the Project Administration
Unit, in the preparation of the survey included in Part H.2 of
the Project and in establishing procedures for processing and
analyzing the data obtained under such survey; and (e) the Project
Evaluation Unit, in the setting up of a detailed evaluation
strategy and in the overall activities of such Unit.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the credit program included in Part B of the
Project to be carried out in accordance with the lending policies
and procedures set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(b) promptly inform the Bank of any modification to the
lending terms and conditions for POLONORDESTE effective as of
September 15, 1978 and of any subsequent modification thereof;
(c) cause Banco Central do Brasil, as the Borrower's finan-
cial agent, to: (i) maintain the existing contractual arrange-
ments with Banco do Brasil S.A., Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A.
and -Banco Nacional de Crfdito Cooperativo providing for their
participation in the carrying out of the credit program included
in Part B of the Project; and (ii) to enter into, and maintain
thereafter, contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
with such other bank or banks as the Borrower and the Bank ahall
accept for purposes of participation thereof in the above referred
credit program;
(d) cause each Participating Bank to participate in the
carrying out of credit program included in Part B of the Project;
and
(e) ensure that, for a period of not less than five years
after the date of this Agreement: (i) the aggregate amount of
repayments in respect of sub-loans for seasonal credit shall be
used to make loans for similar purposes in the Project Area; (ii)
the aggregate amount of sub-loans for seasonal credit made in each


﻿POLONORDESTE fiscal year shall be at least equal to the aggregate
amount of sub-loans for seasonal credit made in the immediately
preceding POLONORDESTE fiscal year. For purposes of sub-paragraph
(ii) of this paragraph (e), the aggregate amount of sub-loans for
seasonal credit made in the POLONORDESTE fiscal year ending on
March 31, 1980 shall be compared with the aggregate amount of
seasonal short-term credit made available to farmers in the
Project Area, in the immediately preceding POLONORDESTE fiscal
year, for purposes similar to the credit line included in Part B.1
(b) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary (including, but not limited to, the provision
under POIDNORDESTE of the monies required for the purpose) to
maintain within SUDAP the existing Cooperative Development Fund
to finance land purchases and to ensure that, until Part C of the
Project has been completed, such Fund is available for financing
land purchases made for purposes of such Part C of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for purposes of the carry-
ing out of Part C of the Project: (i) cause INCRA to enter into
the agreement referred to in Section 9 (c) of the Project Agree-
ment, and shall cause INCRA not to change or fail to enforce such
agreement or any provisi6n thereof; and (ii) cause each of the
Participating Banks to provide funds to the Cooperatives for
the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that all schools and community learning centers included
in Part D.1 and Part D.2, respectively, of the Project, shall be
constructed on sites, and in accordance with prototype plans, both
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1979, furnish to the Bank,
for its approval, a detailed program for the execution of Part E
of the Project;
(b) as and when needed for purposes of the carrying out of
Part E of the Project in accordance with the program  approved by
the Bank pursuant to (a) above, enter, or cause its agencies to
enter, into such contractual arrangements satisfactory .to the Bank
as shall be necessary for the purpose; and


﻿7
(c) shall not, and shall cause its agencies not to, change
or fail to enforce any contractual arrangement executed pursuant
to (b) above.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause COBAL to enter into
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 14 of the
Project Agreement and not to change or fail to enforce such
contractual arrangements.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the State's Management, Council for POLONORDESTE
to prepare and furnish to the Bank upon its preparation, but in
any event not later than, four months before the beginning of each
POLONORDESTE fiscal year, a detailed plan for the carrying out of
the Proje&t during such fiscal year;
(b) ensure that the Bank is afforded a reasonable oppor-
tunity to review each such plan and comment thereon, before the
approval referred to in (c) below;
(c) review each of the plans referred to in (a) above and,
after taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, approve the
final plan for the carrying out of the Project during such fiscal
year; and
(d) furnish to the Bank, promptly after its approval, but
not later than two months before the beginning of the applicable
POLONORDESTE fiscal year, the final plan referred to in (c)
above as approved.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the procezds' of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrover to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the


﻿plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable, or cause to be enabled, the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, including, but not limited to,
quarterly reports on the progress made in the carrying out of the
Project, such quarterly reports to be furnished promptly upon
Their preparation but in any event not later than three months
after the end of each quarter of each POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the standardization of
the data to be used, for monitoring purposes, by the Borrower's
agencies and the State's agencies, including Participating Banks,
involved in the execution of the Project; (ii) establish coding
and analysis procedures for such monitoring task and furnish to
the Bank for review, not later than December 31, 1979, a report on
the aforesaid; and (iii) before March 31, 1982, cause to be
prepared and furnished to the Bank a report on the evaluation of
the first 30 months of Project execution of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date, the
Borrower shall cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement, the performance by the
Bank and the State of their respective obligations under the


﻿III
-9-
Project Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal' circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the vbenefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solel  as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.


﻿-io -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the Project Administration Unit and the agencies
of the Borrower and of the State involved in the execution of the
Project, including the Participating Banks, to maintain separate
accounts adequate to reflect therein, in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices, their reqpective
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project;
(b) cause the accounts referred to in (a) above to be
audited annually, in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(c) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each POLONORDESTE
fiscal year, (A) certified copies of the accounts referred to in
(a) above for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including, without limita-
tion to the foregoing, an opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to make
payments for goods received, or works or services performed,
and that such goods, works and services were eligible for finan-
cing under the Loan Agreement and were used in the carrying out
of the Project; and
(d)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts referriJ to in (a) above and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the facilities included in the Project to be
timely operated and maintained, and the services to be provided
thereunder to be timely furnished, all in conformity with appro-
priate practices and by adequate and competent personnel;
cause all federal roads within the Project Area to
be adequately maintained; and
(c) provide, or cause to be provided, as and when needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
purposes of (a) and (b) above.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.   For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to -paragraph (k) thereof:i
(a) the State shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the State under the Project Agreement;
-and
(b) the agreements referred to in Section 9 (c) and (d)
of the Project Agreement shall have been changed without the
concurrence of the Borrower and the Bank, or any of the parties
thereto shall have failed to perform any of its respective obliga-
tions or covenants thereundei.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
tdl'aragraph (h) thereof, namely that any of the events specified
in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and to the State.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
-the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the State, and is legally binding upon the State
in accordance with its terms;


﻿- 12 -
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents, and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, the State, their political
subdivisions or agencies, or any agency of such political subdivi-
sions, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the
State to perform all of their respective obligations pursuant to
this Agreement and the Project Agreement, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date October 22, 1979, is hiereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios-Bloco 5
50 Andar
10000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIFAZ                           611142 M FAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil                  611506 PG F N BR
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Directoria de Crfdito Rural
Edificio Banco do Brasil S.A. 60 ANDAR
Sector Bancfrio Sul
10000 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil


﻿101# Aft
-13-
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANCENTRAL                         41344
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /sf Karlos Rischbieter
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolfs Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be finatced in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Goods and ser-
vices for Part
A of the Project
(a) Part A (1)             1,800,000       27%
(b) Part A (2)               200,000       38%
(c) Part A (3)              400,000        38%
(2) Ckedit Program
(Part B.1 of the
Project)
(a) crop-related           9,100,000       38% of disburse-
investments                           ments under sub-
loans for purposes
of the Project
(b) seasonal               2,200,000       38% of sub-loans
credit                                for purposes of
the Project made
during POLONORDESTE
fiscal year 1979
over and above the
aggregate amount of
similar loans made
during POLONORDESTE
fiscal year ending
March 31, 1979 in
the Project Area,
*--------------------------------------


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           _ of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
and 38% of sub-loans
for purposes of the
Project made in any
subsequent POLONOR-
DESTE fiscal year
over and above the.
aggregate amount
of sub-loans for
purposes of the
Project made during
the immediately
preceding POLONOR-
DESTE fiscal year
(3) Goods and services           550,000      38%
for Part C of the
Project
(4) Goods and ser-             1,150,000      38%
vices for Part
D of the Project
(5) Goods and ser-               550,000      38%
vices for Part
-E of the Project
(6) Goods and ser-             4,200,000      38%
vices for Part
F of the Project
l.k          (7) Part G of the
Project                                  38%
(a) civil works              75,000
(b) equipment,               25,000
materials
and other
services
'17n


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(8) Goods and ser-               750,000      38%-
vices for Part
H of the Project
(9) Unallocated                5,000,000
TOTAL     26,000,000
2.   The disbursement p3rcentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $750,000 may be made on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after March 31, 1979;
(b) expenditures for Part C of the Project and for invest-
ment credit under Part B.1 (a) of the Project for housing
materials and land clearing and improvements for settlers under
Part C of the Project unless the Bank has been furnished with
evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank of the
execution of the agreements referred to in Section 9 (c) and (d)
of the Project Agreement;


﻿- 17 -
(c) expenditures for Part D of the Project unless the
Bank has been furnished with evidence in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank of: (i) the execution of the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 10 (e) of the Project Agree-
ment; (ii) the adequate staffing of the Planning Department of
the State's Secretariat of Education and Culture; and (iii) in
respect of the construction of or equipment for each school or
center included in Part D.1 and D.2 of the Project, the acquisi-
tion of a site for such school or center;
(d) expenditures for Part E of the Project unless .-he
Bank (i) has approved the plan referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of
this Agreement; (ii) has been furnished with evidence in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank of the execution of each of the
contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this
Agreement and Section 11 of the Project Agreement;
(e) expenditures under Part F of the Project unless the
Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that two engineers have been hired pursuant to Section 3.02 (c) of
this Agreement; and
(f) expenditures under Part G of the Project unless the
Bank has been furnished with evidence in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank of the execution of the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 14 of the Project Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuff-
icient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿-~                                                -18-
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financinglut of the proceeds of the Loan.
o


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's special development
program for the Northeast of Brazil ,(POLONORDESTE). The purpose of
the Project is to raise the standard of living of the Target
Population by increasing productivity, incomes and food supplies,
improving living conditions and education standards, effective
utilization of technical assistance and credit resources, and
encouraging the development of distinct small farmer orientation
within the institutions in the State involved in agricultural and
rural development.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Farm Production Services
1.   Agricultural Extension
Strengthening, expansion and improvement of the struc-
ture and methodology of extension services to small
farmers in the Project Area, training of such small
farmers and of the extensionists rendering services in
the Project Area, development of demonstration fields,
and acquisition and utilization of equipment and vehi-
cles for the purpose.
2.   Agricultural Experimentation
Development of an experimentation program on fruit and
field crops to be grown in the Project Area ad provi-
sion of technical assistance to EMATER-SE for the
planning and execution of demonstration fields and
production of high quality genetic material for propaga-
tion in the Project Area.
3.   Land Surveying and Titling
Establishment of a special office and task force within
SUDAP with a view to strengthening SUDAP and initiating
its land surveying and titling services in the Project
Area. Such services will include promotion of the
services among small farmers, measuring and mapping of
occupied lands and undertaking of legal and administra-
tive action, on behalf of small farmers, for the issu-
ance of land titles.
A


﻿- 20 -
Part B:   Credit
1.   A program of agricultural development credit for the
Target Population to finance:
(a) crop related    investments, including   investments
for establishing permanent crops, on-farm storage
facilities, equipment and small tools, purchase of
housing materials, and land clearing and improve-
ments; financing of housing materials and land
clearing and improvements to be limited to settlers
included in Part.C of the Project; and
(b) seasonal crop production costs including cost of
inputs and other seasonal costs for (i) production
of short-cycle crops; (ii) establishment of semi-
permanent crops; and (11) maintenance and improve-
ment of established permanent fruit crops.
2.   A program of land purchase credit for the benefit of
settlers included in Part C of the Project.
Part C:   Colonization
A program consisting in the design execution, supervision and
completion of 23 settlements of about 60 families each,
including the acquisition and utilization of equipment and
vehicles required for the purpose, and the strengthening of
CPA-SE and the Colonization Coordination Unit referred to in
Section 9 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Part D:   Education and Training
1.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 45
rural primary schools in the Project Area (includ-
ing about 20 schools which will be located in some of
the settlements to be carried out under Part C of the
Project, all providing for an aggregate of about 6,300
student places, double shift).
2.   Construction, furnishing and equipping of three com-
munity learning centers in the Project Area.
3.   Improvement of primary education in the Project Area
by means of (i) adopting a revised rural lower level
(grades 1-4) primary curriculum and organizing acceler-
ated lower primary education programs for overage


﻿- 21
students in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Federal Council of Education; and (ii) preparing
and distributing new teaching guides and materials.
4.   Training or upgrading, or both, of about 725 teachers,
65 school guidance counselors and 150 supervisors, who
will be rendering their services in the Project Area.
5.   Training in community development and education of about
6,200 adults residing in the Project Area.
6.   Vocational training, to be provided through Empresa
Sergipana de Turismo and Servigo Nacional de Aprendi-
zado Comercial, of about 6,300 adults residing in the
Project Area.
7.   Studies on: (i) the social a0d economic characteristics
of the Target Population; and (ii) the projections of
employment to be generated by the Project in the Project
Area and training requirements of the Target population.
8.   Strengthening the State's Secretariat of Education
and Culture by (i) reinforcing its administrative and
supervisory capacity, and (ii) building-up an education
evaluation capacity.
Part E:   Health and Sanitation Services
1.   Construction and equipping of about 25 rural health
posts in the Project Area.
2.   Preinvestment studies for the construction of vil-
lage water supply systems in the Project Area, such
studies to involve, inter alia, the identification
of (i) water sources, (ii) potentiality of deep wells,
(iii) quality of water and (iv) alternative solutions
for water supply.
3.   Construction of water supply systems in about 33
villages in the Project Area, including one in each
of the settlements under Part C of the Project.
4.   Construction of an aggregate of about 1,400 family pit
latrines in the settlements included in Part C of
the Project.


﻿- 22 -
5.   A program for the training of health and sanitation
workers and water supply operators furnishing services
in the Project Area, including refresher courses for the
rural staff of all institutiona involved in the carrying
out of Part E of the Project and three regional seminars
for evaluating the progress of the execution of Part E
of the Project.
6.   Strengthening of the State's Secretariat of Health by
providing 12 man-months of technical assistance thereto
for (i) identifying constraints of the regional health
system; (ii) elaborating and executing proposals for
the development of such system; and (iii) training
personnel for the purpose.
Part F:   Feeder Roads
1.   Upgrading or construction of about 560 kilometers
of low cost feeder roads in, and access roads to, the
Project Area, in accordance with the design standards
specified in the Annex to this Schedule.
2.   Acquisition of road maintenance equipment and spare
parts therefor, and utilization thereof for mainte-
nance of municipal roads in the Project Area.
3.   Carrying out of a study to determine the equipment,
personnel and funds required to enable DER-SE and
the Municipalities to maintain municipal roads in
the Project Area; and preparation of a program under
which DER-SE will maintain all roads and highways in
the State, provide maintenance assistance to all munici-
palities within the State and support highway policing
and vehicle ;4eight control on state highways and roads.
Part G:   Marketing
Construction and equipping of a satellite farmers market at
Umbauba.
Part H:   Project Management
1.   Establistiment, including equipping and staffing of, and
provision of the necessary materials and services for,
the Project Administration Unit and the Project Evalua-
tion Unit.


﻿-23-
2.   Organizing, administering, processing    and  analyzing,
farm productivity surveys; each of such surveys to
be executed by the Project Administration Unit after
completion of the first, third and fifth year of Project
execution.
h* É  i
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿-24-
AffEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Feedér
and Access Roads included in
Part F of ,the Project
A (about 230    B (about 300  C (about 30
kas)            kas)          kms)
Approximate traffic     Over 40          20-40         Up to 20
levels                 v.p.d.           v.p.d.        v.p.d.
Pavement width 1/           6.00 m        5.00 m        4.50 m 2/
Maximum gradient 3/        12% (14%)     12% (14%)     12% (14%)
Desirable maximum
gradient length         300 m         300 m         300 m
Cross-slope and maximum
super-elevation           5%            5%           5%
Gravel thickness            0.15 m        0.10 m        Spot
Minimum curve radius       50 m (30 m)   30 m (25 m)    None
Minimum sight stopping
distance                 70 m (50 m)   40 m          40 m
Minimum culvert diameter    0.80 m        0.80 m        0.80 m
Bridge characteristics   Single lane    Single lane   Single lane
Bridge design loading     Class 36       Class 36      Class 36
1/  Net of widening in curves, and gutters.
2/   Maximum width; passing bays are to be provided where needed.
3/   Figures in parenthesis indicate absolute limits which tb
be used in exceptional cases. For grades steeper than 8,
special attention shall be given to drainage and surfacing.


﻿-25
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
ýDate Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1983
through   March 1, 1994                      1,085,000
On September 1, 1994                              1,045,000
1 1
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes ef withdrawal.


﻿26 -
Premiums ön Prepayment
The folloving percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Cönditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              6.85%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                              7.90%


﻿-27-
SCHEULE 4
Procurement
A.   Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised.
2.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Civil works for Part F of the Project shall be divided into
lots in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Farm inputs, goods and services (other than civil works and
equipment and vehicles required for Parts A, C, D, E, F and G of
the Project) may be purchased though regular commercial channels,
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of the quality and
the competence of the parties performing them.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, infbrm the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 28 -
With respect to all contracts procured in accordance with
Part A hereof for purposes of Part F of the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of each contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   With respect to each contract procured in accordance with
Part A hereof and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Part E of the Project may be carried
out by use of force account.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Municipalities Included
in the Project Area
Araug
Boquia
Criotinapolis
Eståncia
Indiaroba
Itabajaninha
Itaporanga
Lagarto
Pedrinhas
Riachfo do Dantas
Salgado
Santa Luzia
Sgo Cristova^o
Tomar do Gerfi
Umbagba
-~2


﻿-30-
SCHEDULE 6
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Credit shall be provided exclusively to small-scale farmers
(including sharecroppers and tenants) in the Project Area.
2.   Each Sub-loan under Part B.1 (a) of the Project shall be
repaid over: (a) not more than eight years, including a grace
period of not more than four years, in respect of Sub-loans
for equipment and tools; ot (b) not more than twelve years
including a grace period of riot more than six years, in respect
of Sub-loans for all other investments.
3.   Sub-loans under Part B.1 (b) of the Project shall be repaid
over such periods as shall be applicable from time to time to
POLONORDESTE short-term loans for similar purposes.
4.   Each loan under Part B.2 of the Project shall be repaid
over a period of not more than twenty years, including a grace
period of not more than six years.
5.   The principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan under
Part B.1 of the Project and of each loan under Part B.2 of the
Project shall bear interest at the rate applicable to POLONORDESTE
loans for similar purposes.


