Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB4542 
 
Operation Name 
Rwanda Education for All 
–
Fast Track Initiative 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
Education 
Project ID 
P115816 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Rwanda 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
February 2, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
Date of Board Approval 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Rwanda’s economy has grown on average between 2001 and 2008 at 6.8 percent annually.  
However, population growth has impeded increases in per capita GDP, growth in the agriculture 
sector has been slow, and inflation is an emerging concern.  Economic growth has been driven 
by the services and industry sectors, while agriculture has performed poorly.   
Rwanda’s objectives in the area of education as reflected in the Economic Development and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS), the Growth Flagship, and Vision 2020 are geared toward 
supporting Rwanda in making the transition to an inclusive, productive, knowledge-based 
economy and society. In the area of basic education, Rwanda’s focus in the post-conflict period 
has been on increasing access in primary education, with considerable success. The government 
is now increasing its focus on expanding access to lower secondary education, and on improving 
the quality of basic education overall. Rwanda’s target of achieving the Millennium 
Development Goal of universal primary education by 2015 seems achievable. Both gross and net 
enrollment in primary education continues to increase, reaching 152% and 96%, respectively, in 
2007. However, although completion rates are on the rise (52% in 2007 vs. 47% in 2005), they 
need to improve faster to keep Rwanda on track for the MDGs. There is equal gender access to 
primary education, and increasing equality in access for secondary education. 
 
In 2008, the government started a process to fast-track the implementation of its Nine Year Basic 
Education program to extend access to and quality of primary and lower secondary education. 
One of the program’s aims is to faster increase the transition rate from primary to secondary, 
which stood at 56% in 2006. Implementation of the Nine Year Basic Education program will 
also address the major challenge of reducing drop-out and repetition and improving attendance, 
completion and learning achievement. Recently initiated reforms in basic education include the 
change in language policy, a reduction of course subjects and the introduction of double-shifting. 
While the implementation of simultaneous reforms may be necessary to achieve the fast and 
strong positive results that the government aims to achieve, there are concerns that they may be 
overstretching both the staff at the Ministry of Education, which are limited in number, as well as 
the lower level administrations and educational institutions which are of weak capacity. 
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
Given the above context, the EFA-FTI CF Bridge Grant will focus on the reforms aimed at 
improving the quality of basic education in Rwanda. Specifically, the operation will support the 
design of policy reforms related to: 
 
-
Language policy (shifting to English as a language of instruction); 
-
Curriculum (reduction of the number of course subjects); 
-
Teacher specialization; and  
-
A
more efficient usage of existing infrastructure through planned double shifting in basic 
education.  
 
The reforms are aimed at increasing the quality of basic education through a focus on core skills, 
better utilization of teachers, improved choice, distribution and use of learning materials and are 
expected to contribute to a number of the objectives of the Nine Year Basic Education Policy and 
Strategy, including the reduction of primary school repetition and drop-out rates and increasing 
the transition rate to lower secondary education.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been the supervising entity of the US$ 70 million in EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund 
resources that Rwanda received in 2007 and 2008. Both the government and the Education 
Sector Donor Group in Rwanda (which plays a key role in the in-country EFA-FTI process) have 
requested the Bank to continue to be the supervising entity of additional EFA-FTI CF funding.  
 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its recognized ability and credibility by the 
government and partners to act as the supervising entity of the funds; (b) the technical and 
analytical support it can provide in support of the development of Rwanda’s education strategy, 
which in turn will help Rwanda attract further funding from the EFA-FTI CF and other partners; 
(c) the fact that the Bank’s role as supervising entity of the EFA-FTI CF fund increases its 
leverage as a consultation partner with the government and donors even though IDA funds that 
are directly allocated to the education sector are very limited and about to be exhausted by June 
2009. 
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
Education For All – Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund 
0
35 
 
Total 35 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Given the nature of the operation, institutional and implementation arrangements will rely on 
Government processes, with an important role for the Education Sector Donor Group, lead by 
DFID. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements will continue to take place through a number of 
Page  3
mechanisms which bring Government, development partners and civil society representatives 
together in open and transparent processes. Some of these are specific to the education sector, 
others are part of a broader economic framework of planning and monitoring performance 
including the national budget allocation, execution and review process. The main mechanisms 
for the education sector are as follows:   
-
The Annual Joint Review of the Education Sector (JRES) that brings together donors, 
ministries, districts, education institutions and NGOs to discuss expenditure, development 
priorities and progress on agreed action areas;  
-
The annual GoR Joint Budget Sector Reviews that provide summaries of expenditure, 
budget execution performance, targets and allocation percentages for discussion with 
budget support donors and the IMF.  
-
The bi-monthly Education Sector Cluster Group meetings that monitor education 
policies, programme priorities, progress on JRES Action Points. Membership includes 
the main development partners, one CSO and one UN representative as well as the 
Ministries of Education, Local Government and Finance;  
-
Periodic Public Expenditure Reviews; MINEDUC conducted its most recent review in 
2007 and is planning a Public Expenditure Tracking Survey for 2009. 
-
A
Public Expenditure tracking survey is being planned for the second half of 2009 as 
recommended in the 2008 Joint Annual Review 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
Expected benefits are (i) an improved implementation of the gradual transition toward using 
English as a language of instruction; (ii) an improved implementation of the introduction of 
specialized teachers in the first three years of primary school; and (iii) a more efficient usage of 
existing infrastructure through planned double shifting in basic education.
 
These reforms are 
expected to contribute to a number of the objectives of the Nine Year Basic Education Policy and 
Strategy, including the reduction of primary school repetition and drop-out rates and increasing 
the transition rate to lower secondary education.  
Risks 
–
country specific 
Though international and regional efforts to mitigate instability continue, the risk of a spillover 
of the current conflict in eastern 
Congo is not negligible. Internally Rwanda’s security and 
political situation remains stable.  Predictability of donor financing though alignment of donor 
disbursements with the GoR’s budget cycle has improved. In the education sector, a pooled 
account providing sector budget support to the education sector helps mitigate these risks. The 
partners currently providing sector budget support include UK, Netherlands, Belgium, African 
Development Bank, Canadian CIDA and, until recently, the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund. Risks 
associated with weaknesses in the country’s fiduciary framework, particularly at decentralized 
levels, is a concern. The Bank’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSG) series support the GoR’s 
capacity building efforts in the above areas, which would help to mitigate this risk. 
 
Risks 
–
program specific 
The small number of staff in MINEDUC poses serious constraints on the Ministry to carry out 
the necessary policy formulation, capacity building, supervision, technical advice, and 
Page  4
monitoring and evaluation functions that are required to implement the ESSP. The weak capacity 
at lower administrative and school levels poses risks for the successful implementation of the 
government’s program. This operation aims to help mitigate these risks by supporting the 
government in the development and implementation of reforms that take into account this 
context, and by helping to build capacity at, particularly, the central level.  
As the government is in the process of determining the implications of its strengthened focus on 
the post-basic education system, there is a risk that this will result in an insufficient allocation of 
resources to basic education. With the support of development partners, including in particular 
the Bank, DFID and GTZ, the government is addressing this risk by developing a costed Post-
Basic Education strategy which will feed into its revised Long Term Strategic Financing 
Framework by the end of this fiscal year. Both documents should help define an appropriate 
balance of financing between the various sub-sectors of the education system.      
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The reforms to be supported under this operation are geared toward improving the quality of 
basic education. Quality basic education is known to have substantial positive social and 
economic benefits both to the individual benefiting from the education, and society as a whole.  
The Operation therefore supports both economic development and poverty reduction in Rwanda. 
Since it is assumed that particularly the poor and rural households are disadvantaged by low 
quality public basic education, the Operation’s impact on education quality is expected to 
disproportionally benefit the poorer and rural households in Rwanda.  
 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending, 
and 
therefore is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment. 
The policy reform areas that are 
supported by this operation are not envisaged to involve construction or rehabilitation of schools, 
class rooms, or other buildings. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Margo Hoftijzer 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2192 
Fax: (202) 473-8107
 
Email: MHoftijzer@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
