Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AB4668 
 
Operation Name 
Rwanda Education for All 
–
Fast Track Initiative Development 
Policy Grant 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
Education 
Project ID 
P115816 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Rwanda 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
May 27, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 29, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
Not Applicable 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Economic growth between 2001 and 2008 has been strong, averaging 6.8 percent annually and 
peaking at 11.2 percent in 2008.  The strong growth performance during this time period was 
mainly based on growth in the service sector which in 2008 was bolstered by the particularly 
strong performance of the agriculture sector.  Inflation averaged 15 percent in 2008 and rose to 
22 percent by the end of the year due mainly to high food and fuel prices. 
In January 2009, the IMF completed its fifth review under its three-year Poverty Reduction and 
Growth Facility (PRGF). The review reaffirmed the generally positive review of Rwanda’s 
performance from June 2008
1
.
The IMF concluded that program performance in 2007 was 
satisfactory, macroeconomic management was broadly on track, while growth was robust. 
Inflation has fluctuated but remains under control. Furthermore, the recent IMF Article IV 
Consultation concluded that the medium-term economic framework is favorable, due to 
Rwanda’s strong growth, prudent macroeconomic policies, and far-reaching structural reforms, 
although capacity constraints remain a concern. However, continuation of the global economic 
slowdown may result in significant downside risks to the balance of payments, remittances, FDI, 
and external finance. 
Rwanda’s objectives in the area of education as reflected in the Economic Development and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS), the Growth Flagship, and Vision 2020 are geared toward 
supporting Rwanda in making the transition to an inclusive, productive, knowledge-based 
economy and society. In the area of basic education, Rwanda’s focus in the post-conflict period 
has been on increasing access in primary education, with considerable success. The government 
is now increasing its focus on expanding access to lower secondary education, and on improving 
the quality of basic education overall. Rwanda’s target of achieving the Millennium 
Development Goal of universal primary education by 2015 seems achievable. Both gross and net 
enrollment in primary education continues to increase, reaching 128 percent and 94 percent, 
1
IMF press release “IMF Executive Board Completes Fifth Review under PRGF with Rwanda and Approves 
US$1.7 million Disbursement”, January 12, 2009. 
Page  2
2
respectively, in 2008. However, although completion rates are on the rise (53 percent in 2008 vs. 
47 percent in 2005), they need to improve faster to keep Rwanda on track for the MDGs to reach 
100 percent completion rate by 2015. Although gender equality in access to secondary education 
is improving, significant gaps persist in terms of performance, particularly in the later years of 
basic education. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The objective for the grant is to 
support the GoR’s policy reforms on Teacher Development and 
Management, Textbooks, and Girls’ Education with the overall aim to improve the quality of 
basic education.  Specifically, the operation will support policy reforms based on the following 
six prior actions: 
(i) 
Adoption of a Teacher Development and Management Policy (TDMP), 
which foresees the establishment of an entity to oversee the professionalization of teacher 
services; 
(ii)
 Adoption of a cost-calculated strategic plan for the establishment of a coordinated 
in-service teacher education structure; 
(iii)
 Establishment of a framework and procedures for the 
implementation of decentralized procurement and school-level selection of textbooks, as set out 
in the Textbook Policy; (
iv
)
Issuance of invitation to publishers to submit proposals for 
textbooks, teacher guides and supplementary materials for evaluation and inclusion in the 
approved list of learning and teaching materials; (
v
)
Adoption of a Girls’ Education Policy, 
including an improved collection and analysis of gender-disaggregated data; and (
vi
)
Adoption 
of a cost-calculated strategic plan for the implementation of the Girls’ Education Policy.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been the supervising entity of the US$ 70 million in Education For All – Fast 
Track Initiative Catalytic Fund (EFA-FTI CF) resources that Rwanda received in 2007 and 2008. 
The Government has opted to apply for a one-year Bridge Grant from the EFA-FTI CF Steering 
Committee for 2009, providing resources for what is considered to be the last year of a three-
year program (2007-2009). Receiving the proposed grant will allow the Government sufficient 
time to revise and update its Long Term Strategic and Financing Framework (LTSFF) and 
Education Sector Strategic Plan (ESSP) that would provide a basis for a follow-up three-year 
EFA-FTI CF Grant (2010-12). Both the government and the Education Sector Development 
Partner Group in Rwanda (which plays a key role in the in-country EFA-FTI process) have 
requested the Bank to continue to be the supervising entity for the proposed grant.  
 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its recognized ability and credibility by the 
government and partners to act as the supervising entity of the funds; (b) the technical and 
analytical support it can provide in support of the development of Rwanda’s education strategy, 
which in turn will help Rwanda attract further funding from the EFA-FTI CF and other partners; 
(c) the fact that the Bank’s role as supervising entity of the EFA-FTI CF fund increases its 
leverage as a consultation partner with the government and donors even though IDA funds that 
are directly allocated to the education sector are very limited and about to be exhausted by June 
2009. 
 
Page  3
3
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
Education For All 
–
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund 
0
35 
 
Total 35 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Given the nature of the operation, institutional and implementation arrangements will rely on 
Government processes, with an important role for the Education Sector Development Partner 
Group, lead by the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID). 
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements will continue to take place through a number of 
mechanisms which bring Government, development partners and civil society representatives 
together in open and transparent processes. Some of these are specific to the education sector, 
others are part of a broader economic framework of planning and monitoring performance 
including the national budget allocation, execution and review process. The main mechanisms 
for the education sector are as follows:   
-
The Annual Joint Review of the Education Sector (JRES) brings together donors, ministries, 
districts, education institutions and Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) to discuss 
expenditure, development priorities and progress on agreed action areas;  
-
The annual Joint Budget Sector Reviews by the Government of Rwanda (GoR) provides 
summaries of expenditure, budget execution performance, targets and allocation percentages 
for discussion with budget support donors and the International Monetary Fund (IMF); 
-
Bi-monthly Education Sector Cluster Group meetings monitor education policies, program 
priorities and progress on JRES Action Points. Members include the main development 
partners, one Civil Society Organzation (CSO) and one United Nations (UN) representative, 
and the Ministries of Education (MINEDUC), Local Government, and Finance and 
Economic Planning (MINECOFIN);  
-
Periodic Public Expenditure Reviews: MINEDUC conducted its most recent review in 2007 
and is planning a Public Expenditure Tracking Survey for 2009; and  
-
A
Public Expenditure tracking survey is planned for the second half of 2009, as 
recommended in the 2008 Joint Annual Review. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
Expected benefits from the Grant include substantial progress on policy reforms that contribute 
to the acceleration of the Nine Year Basic Education Policy and Strategy. Key elements are 
improved coordination and management of the in-service teacher education structure; 
decentralization of textbook procurement while enhancing school-level decision-making to 
ensure that textbook distribution and choice are adapted to local conditions; and changing the 
school environment that is more cohesive to girls’ further success in school. 
 
Risks 
Page  4
4
There are four main risks potentially associated with the program: i) political risk; (ii) 
macroeconomic and financial sector risk (including risk related to the global financial crisis); 
(iii) aid provision and predictability risk; and iv) program risks.  
 
Political Risks
:
Rwanda’s internal security and political situation remains stable. However, 
instability in the region and particularly in eastern parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo 
(DRC) presents an important risk.  In the wake of  the flare up of fighting in Eastern DRC in late 
2008, the Governments of DRC and Rwanda mounted a joint military operation to disarm and 
repatriate 
the Forces D
émocratiques de Libération
 
du
Rwanda
 (FDLR). This operation, which 
was completed at the end of February 2009, has led to the return of several Rwandans, including 
members of the FDLR from the DRC.  The Bank continues to support efforts aimed at fostering 
peace and security between Rwanda and its neighbors including through the ongoing 
Demobilization and Reintegration Program, a third phase of which is under preparation.  
Macroeconomic and Financial Sector Risks (including risks related to global financial crisis)
:
Regarding fiduciary risks, the GoR has committed to accelerating its implementation of reforms 
in this area.  Progress in recent years includes passage of the procurement law and accountants’ 
bill and completion of the first Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment 
(PEFA) in 2007. While Public Financial Management (PFM) reforms are advancing, some PFM 
areas still need strengthening. These are being addressed through implementation of a 
comprehensive PFM strategy with support from the World Bank and other donors. A recently 
executed audit of the education sector revealed a number of weaknesses which are being 
addressed by MINECOFIN and MINEDUC.
 
While the global economic slowdown has so far had a limited effect on Rwanda’s economy, its 
continuation may result in lower demands for exports, a slowdown in construction, reduced 
growth and receipts in agriculture, deterioration in the balance of payments, in addition to 
reduced remittances, FDI, and foreign aid levels. This could lead to adverse growth effects in the 
medium- to longer-term, and reduce GoR’s potential to reach its EDPRS objectives if household 
and public spending are affected. To mitigate this risk, GoR aims to continue the implementation 
of cautious and coordinated fiscal and monetary policies as well as structural reforms to improve 
private and financial sector performance and diversify the product and export base. As a 
precautionary measure, GoR is also reducing or postponing spending from off-budget accounts.   
 
Aid Predictability Risks
:
Rwanda depends heavily on international assistance, among others in 
the basic education sector. Given this and the recent global financial crisis, significant program 
risk includes the unpredictability of aid flows, which could hinder implementation of 
government policies. Increasing the proportion of international assistance that is applied on-
budget, as well as allocating domestic and more predictable on-budget international financing 
towards the highest-priority activities, contribute to mitigating this risk. Related efforts to 
improve harmonization include (i) a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and Common 
Performance Assessment Framework (CPAF) agreed between the government and donors to 
govern the provision of direct budget support in the implementation of Rwanda’s EDPRS; and 
(ii) in the education sector, a MoU between the government and development partners, which 
will strength harmonization and predictability of resources in the education sector, as does the 
fact that a large share of financial supportis disbursed through pooled sector budget support.
 
Page  5
5
Program Risks
:
Program risk relates to the small number of staff in MINEDUC, which poses 
constraints on carrying out the necessary policy formulation, capacity building, supervision, 
technical advice, and monitoring and evaluation functions that are required to implement the 
ESSP. The weak capacity at lower administrative and school levels poses risks for the successful 
implementation of the government’s program. A restructuring process is ongoing that is expected 
to address these constraints. This operation aims to help mitigate these risks by supporting the 
government in the development and implementation of reforms that take into account this 
context, and by helping to build capacity particularly at  the central level.  MINEDUC faces the 
challenge to pursue its objectives for both basic and post-basic education while facing capacity 
and financial constraints. With the support of development partners, including in particular the 
Bank, DFID and Germany’s Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), the government is 
addressing the risk of an unbalanced allocation of resources between the various sub-sectors of 
the education system. This is being done by developing a costed Post-Basic Education strategy 
that will feed into GoR’s revised Long Term Strategic Financing Framework by the end of the 
2009 fiscal year.  
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impact: 
The reforms supported under this operation are geared toward 
improving the quality of basic education, which is expected to have a positive socio-economic 
impact on those who benefit from increased and extended access to high-quality basic education. 
Therefore, no adverse poverty or social impacts are foreseen. Distributional impacts are expected 
to be pro-poor and support gender equity. 
Pupils who 
currently do not complete primary school 
and, particularly, 
tronc commun
 tend to reside disproportionally in poorer households. An 
across-the-board increase in basic education quality will therefore be particularly beneficial for 
these households. In addition, the particular policy reforms that are supported by this operation 
are expected to particularly benefit those in rural areas and girls: (i) reforms in the area of in-
service teacher training aim to improve teacher motivation and satisfaction and thus attract and 
retain high-quality teachers across the country; (ii) textbook reforms intend to address 
deficiencies in distribution and stock management which are more likely to affect remote areas; 
and (iii) the girl’s education policy explicitly aims to improve school-based constraints to girls’ 
academic performance. Negative distributional impacts in terms of a reduction of the skills 
premium may exist for 
tronc commun
 but is considered to be beneficial for the economy as a 
whole. 
Environment Aspects
:
Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending, 
requires the 
determination whether specific country policies supported under the operation are likely to cause 
significant effects on the country’s environment, and, in the event of such likely effects, assess 
country systems for reducing any such adverse effects and enhancing such positive effects. In the 
event of significant gaps in the analysis, or shortcomings in the country systems, the Bank is 
required to identify how such gaps or shortcomings would be addressed before or during 
program implementation, as appropriate. This operation is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental 
Assessment
.
The proposed operation is expected to have 
no
significant adverse effects
 on 
Rwanda’s environment, natural resources, and forestry.  The operation will provide general 
budget support to the GoR. Implementation of the Girls’ Education Policy may result in changes 
in school infrastructure, such as the addition or expansion of latrines for girls. In the long term, 
implementation of reforms in textbook procurement and distribution may result in an increase in 
Page  6
6
locally produced textbooks. At this stage it seems likely that in this case production inputs 
(paper) would be imported.  Country systems have adequate capacity to safeguard the 
environmental aspects of this operation. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Margo Hoftijzer 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-2192 
Fax: (202) 473-8107
 
Email: MHoftijzer@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
