                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001729



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (P115816, TF-94028)



                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION
                                TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                    FOR A

 EDUCATION FOR ALL – FAST TRACK INITIATIVE CATALYTIC FUND BASIC
            EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT



                                  June 7, 2011




Africa Education Department
AFMRWCT
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective April 28, 2011)

                      Currency Unit = Rwandan Franc
                           US$ 1.00 = RWF 597

                                FISCAL YEAR
                     July 1 - June 30 (from July 1, 2009)

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CEO       Chief Executive Officer
CF        Catalytic Fund
CFC       Catalytic Fund Committee
CPAF      Common Performance Assessment Framework
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
DPO       Development Policy Operation
EQR       External Quality Review
FTI       Fast Track Initiative
GOR       Government of Rwanda
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group (of the World Bank)
IP        Implementation Progress
KIE       Kigali Institute of Education
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MINEDUC   Ministry of Education
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PDO       Project Development Objective
PRSG      Poverty Reduction Support Grant
SE        Supervising Entity
TSC       Teacher Service Commission




           Vice President:            Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
           Country Director:          Johannes Zutt
           Sector Manager:            Peter Materu (Acting)
           Task Team Leader:          Margo A. Hoftijzer
           ICR Team Leader:           Olav Rex Christensen
                            REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
      Education for All – Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund Basic Education
                             Development Policy Grant


Contents 
 A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................... ii 
 B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... ii 
 C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... ii 
 D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... iii 
 E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iii 
 F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii 
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs .................................................................. v 
 H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v 
 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................... 1 
    1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1 
    1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved) .................................................................................................................... 5 
    1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and Reasons/Justification ............................................................................................ 6 
    1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved) .......................... 6 
    1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)..................................................................... 6 
    1.6 Other significant changes ...................................................................................... 6 
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6 
    2.1 Program Performance ........................................................................................... 7 
    2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation ............................................................. 7 
    2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ...... 8 
    2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation .......................................................... 8 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9 
    3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ......................................... 9 
    3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ........................................... 10 
    3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 11 
    3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 11 
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 12 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13 
    5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 13 
    5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 13 
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 14 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 16 
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 17 
    (a) Task Team members............................................................................................ 17 
    (b) Staff Time and Cost............................................................................................. 17 
 Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 18 
 Annex 3. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 23 
 Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24 
    MAP .......................................................................................................................... 25 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Education For All -
                                                                         Fast Track Initiative
Country:               Rwanda                  Program Name:
                                                                         Catalytic Fund Bridge
                                                                         Grant
Program ID:            P115816                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-94028
ICR Date:              06/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:    DPL                     Borrower:                 FINANCE AND
                                                                         ECON. PLANNING
Original Total
                       USD 35.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 35.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 35.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/13/2009   Effectiveness:             01/22/2010        12/23/2009
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              10/09/2009   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:          Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pre-primary education                                                 5                    5
Primary education                                                     65                   65
Secondary education                                                   30                   30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                   Johannes C.M. Zutt
Sector Manager:            Peter Nicolas Materu                 Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
Program Team Leader:       Margo A. Hoftijzer                   Margo A. Hoftijzer
ICR Team Leader:           Olav Rex Christensen
ICR Primary Author:        Olav Rex Christensen


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Program Development Objective is to support the GoR#s policy reforms on Teacher
Development and Management, Textbooks, and Girls# Education with the overall aim to
improve the quality of basic education.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




                                                  ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target   Formally      Actual Value
                                            Values (from      Revised      Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval        Target      Completion or
                                             documents)       Values       Target Years
                   Deputy CEO for teacher development and management appointed under the
Indicator 1 :
                   Rwanda Education Board
Value
(quantitative or   0                       1                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/04/2009              09/04/2009                        02/11/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100%.
achievement)
                   #Awarded textbook status# given to publishers for up to four textbooks per
Indicator 2 :
                   subject for Grades 1-12
Value
(quantitative or   0                       1                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/04/2009              09/04/2009                        02/11/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
                   Core gender-sensitive indicators available and discussed during the annual
Indicator 3 :
                   Joint Review of Education Sector
Value
(quantitative or   0                       1                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/04/2009              09/04/2009                        02/11/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Textbook evaluators trained
Value
(quantitative or   0                       250                               300
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/04/2009              09/04/2009                        02/11/2010



                                                 iii
Comments
(incl. %           120%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Number of schools with Textbook Selection Committee established
                                          Primary: 1926 out
Value              Primary: 0 out of 2408
                                          of 2408                         Primary: 2408
(quantitative or   Secondary: 0 out of
                                          Secondary: 1159                 Secondary: 1449
Qualitative)       1449
                                          out of 1449
Date achieved      09/04/2009             09/04/2009                      02/11/2010
Comments
(incl. %           125%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Guidelines for in-service teacher training providers developed
Value
(quantitative or   0                         1                                1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/04/2009                09/04/2009                       02/11/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
                   Disseminate Girls# Education Policy to every district, including awareness
Indicator 4 :      raising workshops with relevant stakeholders to include NGOs, faith-based
                   organizations, and school administrators
Value
(quantitative or   0                         1                                1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/04/2009                09/04/2009                       02/11/2010
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2010            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  35.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The grant was part of the support provided to the Government of Rwanda (GOR)
by the Education for All - Fast Track Initiative (FTI), more specifically funding from the
Catalytic Fund (CF) that is the FTI mechanism for support to countries’ implementation
of their FTI- endorsed education sector plans. The CF is a multi-donor trust fund. Its
purpose is to provide transitional financial assistance to countries whose education sector
plans have been endorsed by donors through the FTI review process, but which have
difficulty mobilizing additional external funding at the country level. Support from the
Catalytic Fund is expected to enable countries to begin scaling up the implementation of
their sector programs. Currently 18 countries have made contribution to the CF and 37
countries have benefitted from the CF. Total amount allocated by the fund has been
US$ 2.0 billion as of November 2010.

2.       The Program Document for the operation stated that the 1994 conflict left the
Rwanda education system infrastructure devastated and the teacher force decimated. The
initial focus of the GOR in the area of education has been on increasing access to primary
education. These efforts have been successful. Over the last decade, the gross and net
enrollment rates have increased from 88 to 128 percent and 70 to 94 percent, respectively.
The share of girls has remained constant, comprising slightly more than half of the
student population at the primary level. The Government is now turning its focus on both
increasing access to nine year basic education (including lower secondary education), and
improving the quality of education across the board.

3.      The increased emphasis on quality of education requires progress in a number of
areas, e.g. better qualification and utilization of teaching staff, increased access to
appropriate learning equipment, an improved learning environment for girls, monitoring
of learning achievement, a streamlined core curriculum, and as a result of this increased
completion rates. Such improvements are critical both for achieving the Government’s
objective of universal completion of primary education (e.g., repetition and dropout rates
remain quite high, completion rates low) and later universalizing the nine-grade basic
education cycle.

4.       The key prior actions of the grant were: (i) develop and approve a Girls'
Education Policy and finalize a costed strategy as a first step toward its implementation;
(ii) establish an implementation framework and procedures for the Textbook Policy, with
the aim to decentralize procurement and allow school-level selection; and (iii) approve a
Teacher Development and Management Policy, develop and cost a strategic plan for
establishing a coordinated in-service teacher education structure, and start its
implementation. The first prior action was expected to improve the completion rate for
girls, while the last two would contribute to improving primary school completion rates
for both girls and boys.




                                            1
5.      Expected benefits from the grant included substantial progress on policy reforms
that contribute to the acceleration of the Nine Year Basic Education Policy and Strategy.
Key elements are the decentralization of textbook procurement while enhancing school-
level decision-making to ensure that textbook distribution and choice are adapted to local
conditions; improved coordination and management of the in-service teacher education
structure; and changing the school environment that will foster girls’ further success in
school.

6.       Rwanda’s education sector plan was endorsed by the local donors in 2006 and
received a first allocation from the CF of US$70 million in November 2006 with the
grant agreement signed in September 2007. This first CF allocation was based on a
specific CF model grant agreement, disbursed in tranches that were conditional on the
submission of progress reports by GOR endorsed by the in-country education sector
development partner working group. Although government did report on its utilization
within its education budget, regular Bank procedures for IDA lending on disbursement,
financial management, and procurement were not applied. The first CF grant to Rwanda
was essentially provided as sector budget support. In accordance with the applicable rules
at that time no completion report was submitted, but FTI progress reports were sent to the
FTI Secretariat through the World Bank as supervising entity of the grant. The second
grant, which is the subject of this ICR, was considered to be a bridge grant awaiting a
three year application for funding when the new education sector strategy starting in 2010
would be ready for FTI endorsement.

7.      As spelled out in the FTI Modality Guide (final version November 2008), “the
most aligned modality should be used as agreed upon by the local donor group in the
education sector.? This would include not choosing a modality that was less aligned with
that currently in use (by any donor) in a particular country. Based on the overall FTI
policy and the experience of the first CF grant to Rwanda as well as the use of sector
budget support by other donors, the Bank offered to prepare the new operation as a
development policy grant (DPO). This was the “next best? option considering that the
local donors were in favor of using the same approach as for the first CF grant. However,
due to changes in Bank procedures this was not possible. As this was going to be a one
year bridge grant awaiting a new sector plan (the old one ended in 2009), the grant
amount requested was half the amount of the two-year grant allocated in 2006 (50 percent
of US$70 million) with a one year implementation period.

8.       The application and preparation rules of CF grants changed during 2008 and 2009.
First, from 2009 all applications were expected to go through an External Quality Review
(EQR) by independent consultants hired by the FTI Secretariat before the Catalytic Fund
Committee (CFC) meeting. This desk review is meant to assist the CFC in its allocation
decision by assessing internal consistency, how the case for funding has been made, the
clarity of objectives and performance monitoring, the objectivity of prior assessment, the
application of aid effectiveness principles, and progress towards FTI goals. The
application for Rwanda was the first one to go through this process. Second, these change
in FTI procedures coincided with the changes in the Bank rules of preparation of
recipient executed trust funds above US$5 million from July 2008, namely to apply full



                                            2
IDA/IBRD rules. Third, from the second half of 2008 all proposals needed to go through
the Bank‘s full preparation/appraisal before submission to the Catalytic Fund Committee
(CFC). The only remaining process after the allocation decision by the CFC was thus the
negotiation and signing of the grant agreement.

9.      The EQR rated the grant moderately satisfactory and recommended it for funding.
Most projects have received this rating since this first EQR. The EQR Panel commended
the GOR and the development partners for having made significant progress toward
reaching Rwanda’s Education Sector Strategy goals. Three sub-ratings were satisfactory
(aid effectiveness principles; FTI goals; and quality of EQR logistics and process); three
were moderately satisfactory (internal consistency; objectives/performance monitoring;
PDO/performance monitoring; and assessment objectivity); and one was moderately
unsatisfactory—the case for CF funding because of ambiguities in the financing gap 1
analysis.

10.      The Panel found several aspects of the package of the documents strong.

           Good diagnosis of the challenges faced by Rwanda’s education sector
           A realistic discussion of Rwanda’s macroeconomic status and the fiscal risks
            associated with the global economic downturn
           Comprehensiveness and clarity of the education strategy
           Documentation that was professionally prepared, presented, and generally
            internally consistent
           Availability of baseline data for most key performance indicators and careful
            annual tracking of most of these indicators
           Genuine ownership of the endeavor by both the Rwandan government and the
            development partners
           Alignment of the CF objectives with the government’s sector strategy
           Donor harmonization, especially in terms of the arrangements for M&E.

11.    On the instrument, the review recommended not choosing a DPO, but rather a
sector-wide approach that uses disbursement-linked-indicators (used for an education
operation in Pakistan) – mostly because it asserted that DPO instruments increased
implementation demands. The review criticized the program actions chosen (?anemic
conditions?) and the particular use of indicators, including the lack of continuation of
previous performance indicators.

12.  However, it is important not to overstate the importance of this review. As the
EQR was set-up mainly as a service to the CFC members and being conducted just before


1
  Both in this operation as well as in the one prepared later by DFID the ambitions in the new sector
strategy had resulted in a funding gap that was raised as a serious concern in both cases. Sometimes a too
big financing gap in a context of resource constraints is the sign of uncompleted work in terms of decisions
regarding policy trade-offs. In the case of Rwanda it was probably a question of pushing for more aid and
urging donors, including FTI, to provide the aid in a more predictable manner.



                                                     3
the allocation decisions as a pure desk review, the recommendations would not have any
impact on design. Some countries have taken comments made by the EQR and by the
CFC into account later on. The ICR team did not identify any areas where EQR findings
and recommendations changed the agreement on support of the operation by the Sector
Working Group – equivalent to the term “local education group? normally used by FTI -
and the Bank also did not revise the design of the operation.

13.    The Bank was well positioned to prepare and appraise the grant due to the
ongoing general DPO series (Poverty Reduction Support Grants – PRSG1-7). Since
PRSG5 the policy reforms have been chosen from the Common Performance Assessment
Framework (CPAF) and the Bank has extensive experience with contributing to the
content of the CPAF and aligning the PRSGs with the CPAF. The CPAF sets the
performance milestones in the short to medium term for the overall development of the
country, including for the education sector. The PRSG6 noted that the evidenced based
policy dialogue is functioning best in the health and education sectors with long track
records of using sector wide approaches.2

14.     Also, the Bank had a clear picture of the challenges facing the education sector in
Rwanda through its processing of the previous CF grant as well as the involvement in
lending through the Human Resource Development Project (P045091) and knowledge
work in the sector. The major challenge was to agree on program actions that would fit
into the Bank’s development policy framework and at the same time make sense in the
context of the policy dialogue between the GOR and its development partners in
education. A DPO aims to help the country achieve sustainable poverty reduction through
a program of policy and institutional actions, for example, strengthening public financial
management or improving service delivery. The Bank’s experience with similar
instruments led to the reform in 2004 with a strong guidance to staff to keep the number
of policy actions to a minimum. However, FTI is based on the assumption that main
policy reforms are already agreed among development partners as part of the
development of an Education Sector Plan and the endorsement by local donors of this
plan. Therefore, the identification of the policy bottlenecks that could be supported by a
DPO is more challenging in this context. The PRSG faced the same issues selecting
reforms already being a part of the CPAF or choosing slightly different policy actions
that would then require changes to the CPAF. But both Government and donors agreed
that this was the best option. In fact, the recent evaluation by the Bank’s Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) of the Trust Fund Portfolio was informed by the government of
Rwanda that they see the “FTI as “a model aid program? because its funding supports the
government’s own education program and is delivered through sector budget support
using Rwanda’s country systems3.? The government also stated that: “While the fund is




2
    Program Document for the Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Grant, March 3, 2010, page 22.

3 Strictly speaking the DPO is not sector budget support as the funds are not earmarked in any way, but is
solely a support to implement the agreed reforms in the education sector.



                                                     4
multi-donor at the global level, the government needs to interact with only the partner
managing the fund at the country level.?4

15.     Initially, only some of the chosen program actions were included in the CPAF
agreed among development partners and GOR. Of the basic education related actions that
were included in the CPAF at the start of project preparations, the larger share were either
not considered to be ‘program actions’ in the definitions used by the Bank, or were not
expected to be completed within such a timeframe as to be appropriate to be incorporated
as a program action in the operation. To ensure identified program actions were included
in the CPAF, the CPAF was revised during the preparation process. Comments and
suggestions received during the Decision Meeting subsequently required an additional
revision of the program actions and, consequently, the CPAF. These second set of
revisions were not considered to substantially change the content of the program actions.

16.     While the government realized the need to focus more on quality aspects of basic
education after the very rapid increase in access and duration of schooling, the leadership
of the preparation of this operation by the GOR was lower than could be desired due to
lack of capacity at the MINEDUC and the need for a very speedy preparation. Although
the Sector Working Group on education is working closely and well together, this
resulted in a larger role for the local donors in the Sector Working Group, in particular
the lead development partner DFID, in the discussions on the appropriate program
actions and drafting of the program document.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

17.     The Program Development Objective is to support the GOR’s policy reforms on
Teacher Development and Management, Textbooks, and Girls’ Education with the
overall aim to improve the quality of basic education.

18.      Key indicators were closely linked to the PDO and prior actions:

Prior Actions by June 30, 2009           Results Indicator and target by     Related CPAF Medium-
                                         June 2010                           Term Indicators
                                                                             (baseline=2008;
                                                                             target=2009/10)
Policy area: teacher development         Deputy CEO for teacher              Primary school pupil to
and management                           development and management          qualified teacher ratio
Adoption of a teacher development        appointed under the Rwanda
and management policy establishing       Education Board                     Baseline=67
an entity for the oversight of teacher                                       Target=65
services professionalization.            Guidelines for in-service teacher
                                         training providers developed
Adoption of a cost-calculated


4
 Trust Fund Support for Development: An Evaluation of the World Bank’s Trust Fund Portfolio, IEG
February 2011.



                                                      5
strategic plan for the establishment
of a framework for coordinated in-
service teacher training.
Policy area:textbooks                   “Awarded textbook status? given       Primary school completion
Adoption of a framework and             to publishers for up to four          rate, disaggregated by sex
procedures for the implementation       textbooks per subject for Grades 1-
of decentralized procurement and        12                                    Total
school-level selection of textbooks,                                          Baseline=52.5%
as set out in the Textbook Policy.      Number of schools with Textbook       Target=56%
                                        Selection Committee established:
Issuance of an invitation to            - Primary: 1926 (out of 2408)         Girls
publishers for the submission of        - Secondary: 1159 (out of 1449)       Baseline=52.9%
proposals of teaching and learning                                            Target=55%
materials for inclusion in the          250 textbook evaluators trained
national approved list of such
materials.
Policy area: girls’ education           Core gender-sensitive indicators      Primary school completion
Adoption of a girls’ education          available and discussed during the    rate, disaggregated by sex
policy including measures for           annual Joint Review of Education
improved gender-disaggregated data      Sector                                Total
collection and analysis.                                                      Baseline=52.5%
                                        Disseminate Girls’ Education          Target=56%
Adoption of a cost-calculated           Policy to every district, including
strategic plan for the implementation   awareness raising workshops with      Girls
of said girls’ education policy.        relevant stakeholders to include      Baseline=52.9%
                                        NGOs, faith-based organizations,      Target=55%
                                        and school administrators

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification
No revisions made.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

19.    The development policy grant supported the quality of basic education in the
areas of teacher development and management policy, textbook policy, and girls’
education policy.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
Policy areas were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes
No significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

20.    The GOR did a commendable job implementing the agreed program actions and
ensured that the indicators could be monitored.




                                                     6
2.1 Program Performance

    Amount                 Planned Fund Release Date                       Actual Release Date
 US$35.0 million                   5/29/2009                                   12/23/2009

21.     The negotiations took place on June 19, 2009 and the GOR had fulfilled and
documented the prior actions on September 3, 2009. The grant amount was released on
December 23, 2009. The slight delay between the fulfillment of prior actions and the
release of the funds was used for internal clearances and time to get the grant signed
before effectiveness could be declared. Although it was not a significant delay it did
cause some problems between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education as
explained in Annex 2.

Prior Actions                                                              Status         Related CPAF
                                                                                            indicators
Adoption of a Teacher Development and Management Policy                   Achieved       Primary school
establishing an entity for the oversight of teacher services                             pupil to qualitfied
professionalization                                                                      teacher ratio
                                                                                         Target=65
                                                                                         Actual=63
Adoption of a cost-calculated strategic plan for the establishment of     Achieved       Same
a framework for coordinated in-service teacher training
Adoption of a framework and procedures for the implementation of          Achieved       Primary school
decentralized procurement and school-level selection of textbooks,                       completion rate,
as set out in the Textbook Policy                                                        disaggregated by
                                                                                         sex

                                                                                         Total
                                                                                         Target=56%
                                                                                         Actual=74.5

                                                                                         Girls
                                                                                         Target=55
                                                                                         Actual=78.5
Issuance of an invitation to publishers for the submission of             Achieved       Same
proposals of teaching and learning materials for inclusion in the
national approved list of such materials
Adoption of a Girls’ Education Policy including measures for              Achieved       Same
improved gender-disaggregated data collection and analysis
Adoption of a cost-calculated strategic plan for implementation of        Achieved       Same
said girls’ education policy
Souce of actual data from 2009 from FTI Catalytic Fund Summary Documentation, September 2010.


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

22.     The indicators for the operation have all been fulfilled except the formal
establishment of the Rwanda Education Board that requires change to the Constitution.
This is currently in process. The substance of the indicator has been fulfilled as the
Teacher Service Commission has the same mandate that would be given to the Rwanda
Education Board.



                                                      7
23.        The immediate development in the broader policy areas is the following:

          The decentralization of textbook selection, procurement, and distribution has been
           a success. The “decentralizing of textbook selection by schools, is creating
           massive improvements in the supply, distribution and availability of textbooks.?5
          The new teacher development and management policy was adopted and better
           oversight established but the policy change has yet to fully achieve its potential.
           In the October 2010 Annual Review, the Ministry announced that as part of the
           teacher management policy reforms it was reviewing salary increases and
           addressing incentives such as more provision of housing in difficult areas and
           greater access to loans through the Teachers Co-operative Scheme. It was going
           to introduce improved Continuous Professional development opportunities for
           upgrading from certificate to diploma level, and from diploma to degree level
           through distance learning, and in-depth training in English language.
          The impact of the new girls’ education policy has still to have an effect on the
           equity indicators beyond basic education including the lower attainment for girls
           (note that post-basic education was not a focus area of this operation). A number
           of task forces have been established to ensure implementation of the policy, but
           this will take time to have impact on equity indicators, although the primary
           completion rate ended up higher for girls than boys in 2009.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.     The FTI external quality review noted that the M&E arrangements in the sector
were excellent. Progress towards reaching the project’s performance indicator targets
were supervised during the Bank’s implementation support mission of the grant in
February 2010. At that time, performance indicators were available and on track to meet
the targets set for June 30, 2010, including the gender-disaggregated data. Similarly, after
closing of the operation, indicator data were easily made available for the preparation of
this ICR. The M&E arrangements to follow this operation’s impact are part and parcel of
government’s monitoring system and data was made available for the joint sector reviews.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

25.     As expected, the GOR has prepared and development partners agreed to a new
sector strategy for the period 2010 to 2015. Based on this strategy the Sector Working
Group has asked DFID to prepare a proposal to the CFC for a three year sector budget
support grant. DFID has submitted the proposal and a grant of US$70 million was
approved in the FTI meetings in Madrid in November 2010.




5
    Appraisal of Education Sector Strategic Plan (ESSP) 2010 -2015, July 2010




                                                     8
26.     The shift from the Bank to DFID as supervising entity (SE) for the new CF
proposal happened because the Bank was not able to promise to deliver a fully prepared
operation by spring 20106. But the shift was also the result of the experience that the
development partners had with the Bank as supervising entity in the context of the
considerable changes of both FTI procedures and the changes related to the full
compliance with IBRD/IDA procedures. As was vocalized by DFID, the lead of the in-
country education sector development partner working group, the ‘new’ approaches were
perceived to have moved decision making power from the Sector Working Group to
internal Bank decision making processes, and to force policy discussions to focus on
narrowly defined specific activities rather than on policy reforms in general. Even though
the operation was successfully delivered in a very short time period and thus provided
crucial financial support to the sector, the complexity of the partnership at the country
level including choice of SE, instrument, processes to be followed by FTI and the SE, did
leave room for perceptions that other agencies might do a better job than the Bank as SE.

27.     In addition, the DPO modality – providing general budget support – may not be
the optimal instrument to provide financing which is perceived by key stakeholders
(development partners) to be essentially intended to be allocated to a specific sector7. A
recent analysis of sector budget support made by Overseas Development Institute,
Britain's leading independent think tank on international development and humanitarian
issues, for the period 2008 to 2010 examined sector budget support to Rwanda and other
Sub-Saharan countries. All bilateral sector budget support is either earmarked and/or
traceable covering specific line items in the government budget.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

28.     It is the ICR team’s assessment that it is difficult to pick a limited number of
specifically defined program actions in the circumstances where most actions that could
be thought of and would be likely implemented with the capacity of the GOR were
already included in the agreed CPAF. As mentioned earlier this was a shared issue with
the PRSG series.

29.    However, given the Bank instrument and the need to define policy actions, the
areas chosen were the most important areas in order to support the shift towards quality
of education at that particular time of the sector reforms. The actions also helped to keep
the focus on gender issues to achieve the MDG3 and continue addressing gender issues
also beyond primary and secondary education.




6 DFID only managed to present the proposal for the FTI meeting in November 2010, submitted September
2010.
7 DPOs disburse funds directly to the Treasury as general budget support, while DFID in its presentation to
the CFC presented a break-down of the utilization of the grant.


                                                    9
3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

30.    The objective of supporting the policy reforms in the three areas have been
achieved as justified through the results indicators and targets that have all been met.

31.     As indicated in the Program Document, the reforms that were supported by the
grant are expected to contribute positively to the basic-education related medium term
indicators from the CPAF (primary school completion rate, and primary school pupil to
qualified teacher ratio). The actual primary school pupil to qualified teacher ratio in 2009
was slightly better than targeted (63 against a target of 65). The overall primary school
completion rate exceeded the target by 30 percent (74.5 percent compared to a target of
56 percent), and the completion rate for girls even exceeded the target by 43 percent
(78.5 percent compared to 55 percent). These stronger improvements compared to the
target are probably due to the extension of the number of school years in basic education
(from six to nine) and the consequent improvement in retention rates. It is not possible to
segregate the impact of the reforms supported by the operation and the effect of the move
to nine years of basic education.

32.     The study carried out by the Ministry in 2008 as a result of the DPO preparation
in connection with the new Girls’ Education Policy, highlighted a number of concerns
related to girls’ participation and performance in primary school grades. The proportion
of girls accessing upper secondary and especially higher learning institutions is lower
than boys. In tertiary institutions women are frequently only 30% or less of the student
population. The performance of girls in many subjects, especially science, mathematics
and technology is poorer than boys, resulting in a lack of female role models in these
fields. The new Girls’ Education Policy targets teachers, communities, and learning
materials to improved self-esteem and performance of rural girls in particular.

33.    The DPO ensured that a major reform of textbook policy is being implemented
with decentralized procurement and school-level selection being rolled out over the next
two years, alongside training of teachers in use of these materials. A textbook selection
committee was established in each and every school surpassing the targets set.

34.     As indicated in the PAD, it was not expected that the positive impact on the
relevant CPAF indicators of the implementation of the reforms supported by this
operation would be measurable within the short, one-year implementation period of the
operation.8 Also, as indicated above, the positive impact on the CPAF indicators of the
reforms supported by this operation cannot be distinguished from other reforms that were
carried out during this operation’s implementation period. What is clear is that the DPO
helped maintain the momentum of a successful and ambitious reform process that has
achieved impressive results since after the 1994 genocide, by providing crucial and
substantial bridge financing, contributing to maintaining a strong focus on the importance
of the quality of basic education, and pushing important reforms. The overall progress in


8
  For this reason, and following a discussion on the issue during the Decision Meeting for this operation,
the CPAF indicators were not selected as the operation’s key indicators.


                                                     10
the sector has been impressive. For example, enrolments have grown every year by an
average of 4 percent; capitation grants transferred directly to schools have increase each
year since 2004, making it possible to contract additional teachers bringing the pupil
teacher ratio down.

35.     There is an increasing focus on quality of education where the DPO supported the
teacher training and provision of more relevant textbooks. But other challenges are being
worked on through the new education sector strategy in areas such as improving the
professionalism and motivation of the teacher workforce, whole school management, and
the more efficient and equitable distribution of learning/teaching materials. These are
now being addressed with specific strategies, along with changing the approach to
literacy in mother tongue and second languages

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

36.     The Bank was able to respond very quickly to the need for bridge financing. This
was an important contribution to the continuation of the reform process the education
sector is under-going in Rwanda. As indicated by the Bank’s evaluation of the trust fund
portfolio the government saw the FTI support as a “model aid program? supporting
government’s own program with a sector budget instrument. At the same time all
performance indicators achieved their target and the CPAF medium term indicators
substantially exceeded the targets for more qualified teachers per student and especially
higher primary completion rates both for boys and girls. The GOR continues to make
good progress in the three areas supported by the grant and is continuing to pay attention
to these areas in the new sector plan.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

37.     Improvement in the delivery of basic education is expected to have positive
development impact, with disproportionate benefits to the poor and disadvantaged since
those pupils who currently do not complete primary or basic education are more often
girls and can be found more often among poor and rural households.

38.     Although the gender parity in primary is close to achieving the MDG3 for
primary education the equity indicators beyond basic education including lower
attainment for girls are a concern and point to issues which at least partly seem to be
rooted in basic education. The new policy on girls’ education is expected to have a
positive impact on gender aspects, poverty impacts and social development later in the
education cycle, but this is still work in progress.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

39.   The introduction of teacher development and management policy and a
framework for in-service training is expected to have a long lasting impact on the teacher


                                           11
management systems. The framework for procurement of textbooks and broadening of
local publishers are also expected to have longer term institutional benefits in the
textbook management. The introduction of decentralized procurement will also
strengthen the procurement function beyond the MOE to the local level of government.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: modest

40.   The program document lists four risks of the program: political risk,
macroeconomic and financial sector risk, aid provision and predictability risk, and
program risk.

41.     The elections in August 2010 resulted in reelection of the government. The
overall security situation has not deteriorated.

42.    The economic growth was affected by the global financial crises but even in 2009
the GDP rose by 4.1 percent, down from an average of 7.5 percent in recent years. It is
expected that the growth in 2010 will be 5.4 percent.

43.     Available data on aid flows to education indicates that with the new allocation
from FTI the level of external financing remains around US$75 million per year
including sector budget support. However, the ambitions in the new sector strategy have
resulted in a funding gap that was raised as a concern in the context of the discussions of
the application to FTI in November 2010.

44.    The presentation made by GOR for the new grant from FTI shows that GOR have
been able to keep up the high level of domestic support for education and particularly
basic education.

45.     In 2007/8 there was considerable down-sizing of the public service. Consequently
the GOR strategy for ‘leaner and meaner’ ministries has resulted in severe capacity
constraints for large ministries like education 9 . Although the Ministry of Education
consist of a small number of staff it was possible for them to implement the agreed prior
actions and fulfill the performance indicators, although slightly delayed, and achieve the
results that were anticipated.




9
    Local Donor Group Appraisal, July 2010



                                             12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

46.     The preparation of the operation was sufficiently timely and of sufficient quality
to attract the requested financing from the Catalytic Fund within the planned timeline.
However, the complexity of the changes in the partnership including choice of instrument,
changes in FTI processes, the design of program actions, and the internal Bank process of
vetting those actions, led to a somewhat negative perception of the Bank among
stakeholders.

47.     A more in-depth understanding from the Sector Working Group of what a
development policy grant may offer in terms of pushing specific policy bottle-necks
forward in a situation with many competing priorities might have led to less disturbance
of the country level dialogue.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

48.    Considering the good quality of the M&E arrangements and the successful
supervision mission in February 2010 the quality of supervision is considered satisfactory.
The fact that the PRSG has provided an overall frame for dialogue on the CPAF and the
collaboration with the Sector Working Group has helped to ensure a continued good
dialogue with government and development partners.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

49.    The rating is based on the timely and sufficient quality of preparation and good
supervision which both contributed to the operation’s satisfactory outcomes, but ‘issues’
with the instrument and bank procedures leading to a somewhat disturbed country level
dialogue.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

50.     The overall progress in the policy areas supported as well as the linkage to the
overall education sector reform justify a satisfactory rating of the overall government
performance. The good performance in including the new policies in the M&E
framework is also commendable.




                                           13
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

51.    MINEDUC completed the program actions within a reasonable time-frame and
met the target values of the project’s performance indicators. In addition, as evidenced by
recent actions as well as the content of the new Education Sector Strategic Plan,
MINEDUC continues to focus its interventions on those policy areas that were targeted in
the operation. MINEDUC performance is rated moderately satisfactory as its leadership
of the preparation process was less than optimal especially due to the compressed
processing time available in order to meet the FTI deadlines.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

52.    The actions and outcomes within the supported policy areas were achieved
without any major delays. The reform on the quality of education continues through the
new education sector strategic plan for 2010-2015 providing more time to implement the
reforms that were supported by this operation. Although such reforms take time the
government has used the specific reforms supported to further the implementation
beyond the timeframe of this operation.

6. Lessons Learned

53.     The complexity of working in a partnership increases when rules change too
often. This led to a very short period for preparation although government knew
that a financing gap would occur, but the Government did not know if it would be
possible to get the funds from FTI and under which rules. As explained the Bank and
the Sector Working Group did respond quickly to the need for bridge funding and
successfully delivered the operation making the continuation of the reform of the sector
possible. However, the lack of predictability of financing from FTI as well as the changes
in the processes led to unnecessary problems in the collaboration among stakeholders at
the country level.

54.     Bank procedures which are applied to trust-funded operations, are almost
similar to those applied to fully Bank-funded operations, but their weaknesses do
become more evident when they are closely scrutinized by third parties such as the
trust fund financiers or other development partners. The DPO instrument, requiring a
focus on a limited set of policy areas/actions, and the internal Bank process of vetting
those actions, were not well received among some stakeholders. A project preparation
process resulting in a project of sufficient quality and with sufficient client ownership
often requires sensitive in-country discussions and compromises. Taking this into
consideration, the value of theoretically perfect policy actions needs to be assessed in the
context of possible disruption of country level processes. The Bank’s own evaluation of
the trust fund portfolio points to the fact that although the controls on trust funds have




                                            14
improved the processes are still not fully integrated into Bank processes 10 . A fully
integrated trust fund framework would probably make it easier for others to understand
the Bank’s processes and it would lower the transaction costs for the task teams with
clear rules fully following similar IDA/IBRD operations.

55.    The experience in Rwanda, as well in other countries benefitting from EFA-
FTI funding, have shown that communication with the Sector Working Group to set
expectations on what and how the Bank can deliver operations is important. Also,
better knowledge sharing of expectations within the FTI partnership with Bank
units involved in review and clearance of FTI operations is important for all FTI
operations. To achieve this, a community of practice group has been established and
Sharepoint is used to share documents and developments related to the partnership. The
Africa education sector unit has also appointed a focal person on FTI. But further work
should be built into the preparation of new operations to ensure better understanding of
the Bank’s work from the Sector Working Group and better understanding of the FTI
partnership within the Bank.

56.     For Rwanda and other countries applying for EFA-FTI funding, the
possibility to submit applications on a rolling or at least more regular basis would
reduce pressure to deliver an operation on time for the current bi-annual approval
process, and would facilitate more elaborate coordination between key stakeholders.
In the case of Rwanda, the tight deadlines to deliver the operation before the targeted
EFA-FTI meeting meant that time constraints prevented more intensive coordination of
project preparations, ownership building within MINEDUC and information sharing with
development partners. Since FTI applications are only discussed once every six months,
the project would have been delayed at least half a year if the deadline would not have
been met, which was considered to be unacceptable by the Government, the Bank and the
development partners, in particular DFID. The new FTI processes with expected
quarterly allocation decisions will likely reduce these pressures.

57.     The timing of FTI operations should be aligned with the implementation
periods of national education sector plans of the participating countries. The
operation did provide its broader objective of providing financing for a short period to
avoid a financing gap between the previous grant and a future, new three year operation.
However, as a one year operation it provided only limited scope to achieve visible
outcomes within the project implementation period. A programmatic series of DPOs over
three years would have enabled a more constructive set of policy actions that would
enable a clearer story on outcomes. However, due to the lack of an updated education
sector plan this was not an option, as the existence of such a plan for the project period is
an eligibility criterion of the EFA-FTI CF.




10
     IEG, Trust Fund Support for Development, Page 13.



                                                   15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Co financiers

58.    The comments from DFID (see Annex 3) are largely in line with the reported
contents of the main report




                                       16
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                                   Responsibility/
                Names                                      Title                        Unit
                                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Margo A. Hoftiijzer                     Sr. Economist                                AFTED Task Team Leader
Anne Anglio                             Senior Program Assistant                     ECSHD
Nadege K. Nouviale                      Program Assistant                            AFTSP
Dung-Kim Pham                           Operations Officer                           AFTED
Johannes Widmann                        Country Officer                              AFCKE
Supervision
Margo Hoftijzer                         Sr. Economist                                AFTED Task Team Leader
Fadila Caillaud                         Education Economist                          AFTED
Aichatou Seyni Hassane                  Consultant                                   AFTED
Keiko Inoue                             Education Spec.                              AFTED


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                                    Staff Time and Cost
                     Stage                                                     USD (including travel and
                                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending11
                                       Total:                                                        0
Supervision/ICR – BB                                                                               880
TF through FTI                                                                                  64,584
                                       Total:                                                   65,464

The preparation was made in a few months without charging any costs. The cost was fully covered by other education
interventions in Rwanda using Bank Budget.




11
     No BB was available for preparation or supervision of this operation. For supervision, TF funding was available.




                                                            17
Annex 2. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR12

      (i)       Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation and
                operational experience

The EFA-FTI Bridge Grant was a 1-year budget support operation focusing on basic
education. The operation’s objective was specifically focused on supporting the GOR’s
policy reforms in three specific policy areas – Teacher Development and Management,
Textbooks, and Girls’ Education – with the overall aim of improving the quality of basic
education.

Within these three specific policy areas a number of targets were set based on achieved
prior actions. These targets were as follows (from Table 7 of Program Document).

Girls’ Education

Core gender-sensitive indicators available and discussed during the annual Joint Review
of the Education Sector.

Disseminate Girls’ Education Policy to every district, including awareness raising
workshops with relevant stakeholders to include NGOs, faith-based organizations, and
school administrators.

Textbooks

“Awarded textbook status? given to publishers for up to four textbooks per subject for
Grades 1-12.

Number of schools with Textbook Selection Committee established:

            ?   Primary: 1,926 (out of 2,408)
            ?   Secondary: 1,159 (out of 1,449)

250 textbook evaluators trained.

Teacher Development and Management

Deputy CEO for teacher development and management appointed under the Rwanda
Education Board.

Guidelines for in-service teacher training providers developed.


12
     This has been duly submitted by the Government.



                                                   18
   (ii)     Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

Development in the Rwandan education sector as a whole was again highly impressive in
2009/10. For example, in basic education, preliminary 2010 data shows the primary
transition rate has increased to 95% in 2009 from 88% in 2008 and 55% in 2007. This is
a testament to the remarkable success of the Government’s 9 Years Basic Education
Policy.

There was also notable progress in the three specific policy areas focused on by the EFA-
FTI Bridge Grant:

Girls’ Education

There have been many successes in the policy area of Girls’ Education. All statistics
collected by the Ministry are now gender-disaggregated, and have been discussed at all
joint reviews since 2009. The Girls’ Education Policy was disseminated to every district
in October 2010, and awareness raising workshops took place with all relevant
stakeholders in November 2010. A Girls’ Education Taskforce has also been established.

The gender disaggregated statistics demonstrate some of the initial successes in
supporting girls’ education, in particular with girls’ enrolment and completion rates
exceeding those for boys at primary level.

Textbooks

The procurement of textbooks has been successfully decentralized. Compared to
previous years where there has been effective monopolization of textbook provision, the
previous year saw 28 publishers competing to provide textbooks suited to the national
curricula. 300 textbook evaluators were trained to choose between competing publishers
(surpassing the target of 250 evaluators to be trained). These evaluators chose 4
publishers for each grade and for each subject (i.e. gave them “awarded textbook status?,
achieving the first specific target mentioned in the program document).

Textbook selection committees (consisting of at least the Head Teacher, two other
teachers and one parent) were established at every single school (surpassing the target of
1,926 and 1,159 at primary and secondary schools respectively). After allowing the
publishers 6 months to market their books, each school then made its own individual
choice on which textbooks to buy, from the list of 4 for each grade and for each subject.

As such all targets from the program document were achieved.

Teacher Development and Management

Much progress has been made in the area of Teacher Development and Management.
The Teacher Service Commission (TSC) was established and its members appointed.




                                           19
The head of the TSC will become a Deputy CEO/DG of the Rwandan Education Board
whose law has now been passed.

The development of guidelines for in-service teacher training providers is underway.
Kigali Institute of Education (KIE) is now mandated to oversee all teacher education
activities. As such KIE has taken over responsibility for curriculum, assessment and
certification and quality assurance for teacher training providers. This decision will lead
to improved effectiveness of teacher training in the longer term.

A longer term view was also taken when undertaking the study on the supply and demand
of teachers. Rather than undertaking a simplistic study of supply and demand, the TSC is
establishing an electronic National Teacher Registration System (NTRS) and database.
Once ready this system will not only provide data on the supply and demand of teachers,
but also will be used complementarily with the National Teacher Licensing and
Upgrading System (NTLUS) aimed at creating a teacher profession pathway and
advancement of teachers. In addition the TSC has embarked on the design of policies
and tools to operationalise the teacher development system including: a National Teacher
Code of Conduct (NTCC) – to govern the ethical behavior of teachers, Terms and
Conditions of Services (TACOS) – to enable teacher contracts to be drawn and signed,
National Teacher Professional Standards (NTPS) – to set out classroom competences
expected from teachers and maintenance of teaching standards, and Teacher Appraisal
and Evaluation System (TAES) – to facilitate ongoing assessment of teacher
performance.

This system is expected to be fully operational at the latest by the end of 2011.

   (iii)   Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the preparation
           and implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons
           learned that may be helpful in the future

As seen in the previous section the GOR’s performance was strong in the implementation
of the operation. A number of lessons were, however, learnt in the implementation of the
objectives.

Girls’ Education

The availability of gender disaggregated statistics has demonstrated where some of the
priorities should be in supporting girls’ education. While enrolment and completion rates
for girls exceed those for boys at the primary level, more boys than girls move on from
lower secondary to upper secondary education. The statistics have also shown that the
proportion of girls studying in science and technology fields in the post-basic education
sector is very low. As such, lessons learned have been used to influence policy towards
promoting girl’s education.




                                             20
Textbooks

In decentralizing textbook procurement an online database system was established to
handle all orders from schools for books. This is a sophisticated tool that will become
increasingly useful in coming years. However, this system is web-based and so not all
schools are able to access it due to lack of electricity and connectivity. In addition, in
many cases the human capacity of schools to use the system is not yet sufficient either.
These issues were, however, predicted and for the previous year schools were given
manual forms to fill in to make their textbook orders.

98% of schools made their textbook orders on time (the expectation based on experiences
in other countries was only 60%). This demonstrated the keenness of schools to select
their own textbooks themselves.

The success of the process can also be seen in the fact that no complaint was received
from any publisher, including those which were not selected. It is believed this is the
result of the procedure being very transparent for all publishers.

Teacher Development and Management

The scope of work required to overhaul Rwanda’s Teacher Development and
Management sector was perhaps underestimated. It was possibly inappropriate to have
set such specific targets within a very short time frame, before the TSC had even been
established. The TSC feels that it has taken the right longer-term approach regarding
Teacher Development and Management, rather than rushing out systems which could
have proven to be poor quality.

   (iv)     Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any cofinanciers, or of other
            partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation,
            including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on
            lessons learned

The preparation and implementation of the operation were strongly supported by the in-
country development partners. This support came in terms of further financial assistance
as well as technical and logistical support. The coordination between development
partners has been improving. By reducing the duplication of requested documentation,
this coordination has decreased the overall bureaucratic burden on the Ministry. This has
allowed the Ministry’s key staff to focus more attention on the actual implementation of
education programmes.

The disbursement of the EFA-FTI bridging grant was only made on December 23, 2009.
However, the GOR had fulfilled and documented the prior actions on September 3, 2009.
This delay in disbursement fortunately did not impact on the implementation of the
operation, as the Ministry of Finance provided short-term funding to cover this delay.
Evidently, however, this carried a cost for the Ministry of Finance and if they had been




                                           21
unable to provide this short-term funding the operation’s implementation would have
been under threat.

   (v)    Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the
          project

In November 2010 the board of the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund approved the allocation of
$70 million funding for the Rwandan education sector for the years 2010-13. The
supervising entity for this fund will be switching from the World Bank to DFID. It is
hoped that DFID’s role as supervising entity will further reduce bureaucratic demands on
the Ministry as DFID can link together both the supervision of its own sector budget
support program and the EFA-FTI fund.




                                          22
Annex 3. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

DFID made the following comments on November 30, 2010:

   A) There was excellent in-country co-ordination and joint working on the FTI
      presentation amongst key partners such as Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
      Education and most major bilateral and multilateral partners in Rwanda.

   B) There was quite strong collaboration between preparation of documentation for
      FTI by DFID, Ministry of Education, and the WB Program Document design
      team, but transaction costs grew with the additional demands on policy actions
      and parallel processes so greater synergy was lost at times.

   C) The Ministry of Education did sometimes feel that too many demands were made,
      on specific officers, often after an issue was seemingly resolved, then the TTL
      would come back with further requests.

   D) The actual disbursement took place 6/7 months after the FTI Catalytic Fund
      meeting and agreement in Copenhagen, and while it was not too problematic for
      implementation of the final phase of 2009/10 Annual Plan, it did hold back some
      planned activities.

   E) It was felt that the EQR highlighted some issues that resulted from lack of
      understanding of the context in Rwanda. However one useful lesson that emerged
      was the need for countries to explain and analyze fully the rationale behind the
      financing gap and the various scenarios.

   F) The need for solid rigorous preparation and rehearsal became paramount and
      probably contributed to the success of the FTI application. The quality and clarity
      of the Summary document and PowerPoint presentation is extremely important,
      as well as preparation for the kinds of questions one would expect.

   G) After disbursement of the funds, the process of monitoring and reporting seemed
      vague – obviously the Annual Joint Reviews provided much useful feedback, but
      now that the FTI Progress Reports were no longer used, it was not clear until
      almost the end of the FTI disbursement period, how the final completion report
      would be carried out.




                                          23
Annex 4. List of Supporting Documents


DFID, Country Presentation, Rwanda, for the Copenhagen meeting April 22, 2009.

DFID, FTI Catalytic Fund Summary Documentation, September 2010.

FTI Secretariat, External Quality Review, Rwanda, no date, around March 2009.

FTI Secretariat, The EFA-FTI Modality Guidelines, November 2008.

IEG, Trust Fund Support for Development: An Evaluation of the World Bank’s Trust
Fund Portfolio, February 2011.

Local Donor Group, Appraisal of Education Sector Strategic Plan 2010-2015, July 2010.

Overseas Development Institute, Sector Budget Support in Practice, November 2009.

World Bank, Program Document on a proposed grant to the Republic of Rwanda,
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative Development Policy Grant, September 4, 2009.

World Bank, Aide Memoire of Education and Skills Development Mission January 25-
February 11, 2010, March 18, 2010.

World Bank, Implementation Status and Results Report, P115816, June 29, 2010.

World Bank, Program Document for the Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Grant, March
3, 2010




                                         24
                                                                                                           29°30'E                                                      30°00'E                                                     30°30'E                                                       31°00'E

                           RWAN D A                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kafunzo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1°00'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kagitumba
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                  AKARERE (DISTRICT) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                              UGANDA                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kikagati

                                  INTARA (PROVINCE) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kag
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         era
                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0            10         20       30    40 Kilometers
                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                                  Kisoro                                                                              Nyagatare
                                  MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                         gitumba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                  10             20          30 Miles
                                  AKARERE (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                          To                 Muvumba
                                                                                                                                   Kidaho            Butaro            Kabale                                      N YA G A T A R E




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ka
                                  INTARA (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES                                                                                       Lac
                                                                                                                                 Burera                                                                                                             Lac
                                                                                                 Volcan                                              Burera                                                                               Rwanyakizinga
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     Karisimbi      MUSANZA                      BURERA                               Mulindi Gatunda
                                                                                  1°30'S       (4519 m)             Muhoza         Lac                  Kirambo                                                                                                                                                         1°30'S
                                                                                                                               Ruhondo               Cyeru                                                                                               Lac
                                                                                                            Busogo                                                           G ICUMBI                                            Gabiro                 Mikindi
                                                                                                                                                     Kinihira
                                                   29°00'E                                                                                                                                                                        G AT S I B O
                                                                              To
                                                                                                               Mukamira
                                                                                                                                                       NORTH                           Byumba            Gatsibo
                                                                           Rutshuru      RUBAVU
                                                                                                           N YA B I H U           Nemba
                                                                                                                                                 Gakenke                                                                             EAST
                                                                                           Vir
                                                                       To             Rubavu     Kagali                                                                                                                                                              Lac
                                                                      Sake                                      Karago                            PROVINCE                                Kinyami             Kabarore                                              Hago
                                                                          Gisenyi Nyondo
                                                                                               un                                                                    Tare                                      Kiziguru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE
                                                                                                ga              Muramba                GAKENKE                                                                                                                Lac
                                                                                                                                                                 RULINDO                                                                                   Kivumba
              D E M . R E P.                                                                                         Kabaya      Ngaru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Muhura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rukara                            Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bugene
                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                     Mbogo                                          Lac                                                  Ihema




                                                                                                                                         Ny
                   OF
                                                                                                    ts.
                                                                                                              Ngororero                                                                                            Muhazi




                                                                                                                                           ab
                                                                                RUTSIRO                                                                Shyorongi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K AY O N Z A




                                                                                                                                           ar
                CONGO                                    La c K ivu                                        NGORORERO                            go                                       GASABO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TA N Z A N I A




                                                                                                                                             no
                                                                                         Murunda
                                                                                                   WEST                                                                      KIGALI CITY                                        Mukarange
                                                                                                 Gihingo                                                                               Ndera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gikoro Rwamagana
                                                                                                   OV
                                                                                               P RRutsiro I N C E                     Bulinga
                                                                                                                                                                     Rugenge       KIGALI
                                                                                                                                                      Rukoma                              Kicuro                   Bicumbi Kigabiro                               Lac
            2°00'S                                                                                                             MUHANGA                                                                                                                           Nasho                                                  2°00'S
                                                                                                     Mabanza                                                    NYARUGENGE               KICUKIRO          RWAMAGANA
                                                                                Kibuye                                         Nyamabuye
                                                                                                        Rubengera                                      KAMONYI                                                                                                                Lac
                                                                                                                                            Gitarama                                                                     Lac   Kigarama                        Lac            Mpanga
                                                                                               KARONGI                                                                                                                   Mugesera                           Cywambwe
                                                                                                                                                                            Bugesera     Nyamata                                    Kibungo
                                                                                         Gishyita
                                                                                                                                   RUHANGO                                                      Rilima
                                                                                                           Bwakira                                                                                                        NGOMA                            KIREHE
                                                                                               Ngoma                                                                                       Gashora                    Sake
                                                                                                                                  Masango
                                                                                                                                                     Ruhango                                                                                            Kirehe
                                                                                                                                                                                       BUGESERA
                                                                                                                             Gatagara
                                                                                                                                           N YA N Z A
                                                                    Kagano                                 SOUTH               Nyanza
                                                                                                                                            Busasamana                               Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                   Cyohoha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         g   era
                                                                Rwesero                         N YA M A G A B E                                                                     Sud                       Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                Kamembe N Y A M A S H E K E                         PROVINCE                               Rusatira                                                           Rweru                                         Lusahanga

                                                                                                            Gasaka            Karaba
                                              Cyangugu
                                                                                                                                 HUYE                                                             To
            2°30'S               To                                                        Kitabi          Gikongoro         Karama
                               Walangu                               Rwumba                                                                                                                    Kirundo
                                                                                                                                                GISAGARA
                                                             RUSIZI
                                    To                                                                                         Ngoma
                                 Nyya-Ghezi                                                      Ruramba                                   Butare       Ndora
                                                                                                                    Kibeho                                                                                                                                                    RWANDA
             This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                              yaru




             the Map Design Unit of The                                                                 N YA R U G U R U                        Kanzi
                                                                                                                                                           an




             World Bank. The boundaries,                 Bugarama                                          Munini       Kigembe
                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                            BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                         Ak




             colors, denominations and
                                                                          Cibitoke
             any other information shown
                                                           To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33471R2
             on this map do not imply, on
             the part of The World Bank                  Cibitoke
             Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                         To               To
             legal status of any territory,
JUNE 2008




                                                                                                                       Kayanza           Ngozi
             or any endorsement or
             acceptance of such
             boundaries.                           29°00'E                                                 29°30'E                                                      30°00'E                                                     30°30'E
