Report No. 915a-MOR
Appraisal of the                                                    Fl    C
Doukkala Irrigation Project    LE   OPY
Kingdom of Morocco
january 9, 1976
Irrigation Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CUPRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          = Dirham (DH)
DH 1                                    = us$0.258
DH 1,000                                = US$258
DH 1,000,000                            = US$257,732
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                       = 0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                             = 39 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                        = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                          = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square meter (m2)                     = 10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 cubic meter (mJ)                      = 35.31 cubic feet (ft3)
1 liter (1)                             = 0.264 US gallons (gai)
1 hectoliter (hl)                       = 26.4 US gallons  (gai)
1 kilogram (kg)                         = 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)                      = 2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                                   = 14.666 pounds/square inch (psi)
GOVERIMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABIREVIATIONS
ENDE - National Development Bank
(Banque Nationale du Développement de l'Economie)
CFDT - French Company for Development of Textile Fibers
(Compagnie Française pour le Developpement des Fibres Testiles)
CLCA - Local Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Locale de Crédit Agricole)
CIMYT - International Center for Improvement of Maize and Wheat
(Centro Internacional para El Mejoramiehto del Mais y del Trigo)
CMV - Development Center
(Centre de Mise en Valeur)
CNCA - National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole)
COMAGRI - Moroccan Agricultural Company
(Compagnie Marocaine d'Agriculture)
COMAPRA - Moroccan Company for Marketing of Agricultural Produce
(Compagnie Marocaine de Commercialisation de Produits Agricoles)
CP - FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
CRCA - Regional Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Régionale de Crédit Agricole)
DRA - Directorate of Agricultural Research
(Direction de la Recherche Agronomique)
DRE - Water Resources Division
(Division des Ressources en Eau)
EAPDI - Economic Analysis and Projection Department - IERD
IRCT - Research Institute for Cotton and Textiles
(Institut de Recherches pour le Coton et Textiles)
MARA - Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
(Ministère de l'Agriculture et de la Réforme Agraire)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS - Continued
MTPC - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
(Ministère des Travaux Publics et Communications)
OCE - Export Trade Company
(Office de Commercialisation et Exportation)
ONE - National Electricity Office
(Office National de ltElectricité)
ORSTOM - Overseas Research Institute
(Office de Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques d'Outre-Mer)
ORMVAD - Regional Agricultural Development Office Doukkala
(Office Régional de Mise en Valeur Agricole des Doukkala)
ORMVASM - Regional Agricultural Development Office Souss-Massa
(Office Régional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du Souss-Massa)
SCAM - Moroccan Agricultural Marketing Society
(Société de Commercialisation Agricole Marocaine)
SCET International - Consulting Company
(Socièté Centrale pour l'Equipeinitnt du Territoire (International)
USAID - United States Agency for International Development



APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................    i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.                                        2
A. Description.                                               2
B.   Previous Bank Projects in the
Agricultural Sector.                                  2
III.   PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.                       4
A. The Area.                                                  4
B.  Natural Resources ............................            5
C. Land Tenure.                                               5
D.   Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields .           6
E. Marketing and Cooperatives.                                6
F.   Development and Credit Institutions.                     6
IV .  TUE PROJECT      .      ..     ..     ...............         8
A. General ..............                                     8
-B.   Description ................. ; ` .`.                     8
C. Detailed Features. ..                                      9
D.   Water Demand, Supply, Quality and Rights                il
E.   Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering         il
F.   Cost Estimates ...........         .    .    .12
G. Financing.......   14
H. Procurement. .                                            14
I. Disbursement               ...15
J. Retroactive Financing            . ..15
K. Environmental Impact              ...15
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..16
A.  Organization and Management .16
B. Operation and Maintenance .18
C.   Services ....................... , .....                18
D.   Land Consolidation .........................            19
E. Recoverv of Project Costs .20
F. Monitoring .22
G. Accounts and Audit .23



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                   Pag No.
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........................     23
A.  Production ..............                           23
B.  Markets   .........   .............................  24
C.  Prices   ..........  .............................  25
D.   Farmers' Income   ..............................   25
E.  Main Benefit and Beneficiaries ....    ...........  26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .... ........    26
ANNEXES
1  Climatic Data
_2  Crop Production
3  Estimated Water Requirements
4  Land Tenure
5  Animal Production
6  Agricultural Credit
7  Project Description
8  Construction and Activity Schedule
Chart 15243 (R)
9  Cost Estimate
10  Schedule of Expenditures
i1  Procurement
12  Disbursements of Bank Loan
13  Terms of Reference Consultants
14  Marketing
15  Farm Budgets
16  Economic Analysis
17  Employment and Migration
CHARTS
15200 (R)
MAPS
11853 (R)
11855 (R)



APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Morocco has an area of 506,000 km  and a population of 16 million
which is increasing at a rate of 2.6% per vear. Its agriculture accounts for
about 30% of GDP and is the largest sector in the economy, providing about
one-half of the exports and employment (55% of the labor force). Agriculture
products, mainly sugar, cereals, dairy products, tea, coffee and tobacco,
valued at US$580 million, were imported in 1974 to meet the nation's need.
Exports of agriculture products amounted to only US$520 million in 1974. The
average agricultural trade surplus over the years 1970-1974 averaged US$190
million.
hi.       Irrigation is important to increase agricultural production partic-
ularly in view of the limited available land with adequate and reliable rain-
fall. Out of 7.7 million ha of arable land about 840,000 ha are irrigated but
only 500,000 ha are equipped with modern facilities. The Third Development
Plan (1973-1977) emphasizes improvement of the trade balance of agricultural
products, increased farm output and farm income through irrigation and improve-
ment in the distribution of growth benefits. The proposed Doukkala Irrigation
Project would contribute to the realization of these objectives by producing
export products and import substitute products, implementing land consolida-
tion, improving supporting services and providing basic village infrastruc-
ture and bilharzia control. The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has
requested a Bank loan to help finance the project.
iii.      Bank Group lending to Morocco for agriculture started in 1965 and
consista of five loans and two cree.its totalling US$175 million. Except for
the Sousas Groundwater and Meknes Agriculture Development Projects, on which
it is too early to report, upcoming problems in the implementation of proj-
ects and disbursements have been resolved satisfactorily. Working relations
with the borrower have been cordial.
iv.       The project would provide sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha in the
Doukkala perimeter. It would benefit a farming population of 19,000 persons.
Water would be obtained from the Oum Er R'Bia river. To improve quality of
life and create an improved rural environnent, the project would also provide
village infrastructure and support a bilharzia control program. The project
would provide for a feaslbilfty study of the Dechra El Oued dam and for a
feasibility study for production and marketing of vegetables in the Massa
region.



- ii -
v.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) with the as-
sistance of other Goverament agencies would be responsible for project imple-
mentation. MARA's Regional Agricultural Development Office in Doukkala
(ORMVAD) would be charged with planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance, and agricultural services. The Ministry of Public Health would
be responsible for the implementation of the bilharzia control program.
vi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$94 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$42.0 million. The proposed Bank loan (US$30 mil-
lion) would finance part of the foreign exchange costs, and loans from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) the remaining
foreign exchange requirements (US$12 million), plus part of local costs
(US$1 million). Goverument and project farmers would finance the remaining
local costs (US$51.4 million). Construction started in 1975 and would be
completed in 1980. Total value of the works and equipment, including con-
tingencies, that would be procured under international competitive bidding
amount to US$48.0 million. Goode and services financed through the proposed
Bank Loan would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
vii.      At full development, the project would increase annual production
of main crops as follows:   wheat 9,500 tons, maize 8,700 tons, sugar beet
130,500 tons, tomatoes 54,400 tons, cotton 2,000 tons, milk 15,500 tons and
beef 1,300 tons.  Incremental production would be for export or for import
substitution. At full development the annual net incremental production
value would amount to US$11.1 million.  The average anual per capita income
would increase from the present low level of US$110 to US$485. The project
would assist the poor sections of Morocco's rural population, but even at
full development their income would still be below the average national per
capita income, estimated to reach about US$700 in 1991. The rate of return
excluding village infrastructure is estimated at 11.5%.
viii.     Subject to agreements on the issues set forth in this report the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan to the Kingdom of Morocco. The
loan would be repaid over a period of 20 years including 5 years of grace.



APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKRALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Morocco has requested a Bank loan
of US$30 million and loans of US$13 million from USAID, to finance the for-
eign exchange component and part of local costs of the US$94.4 million
Doukkala Irrigation Project. The proposed project would provide for devel-
opment of intensive irrigation on 15,400 ha in the Doukkala perimeter, and
would improve living conditions through provision of basic village infra-
structure and bilharzia control. It would also provide for a feasibility
study of the Dechra El Oued dam in Tadla and a feasibility study for produc-
tion and marketing of vegetables in the Massa region.
1.02      Development of land and water resources of the Oum Er R'Bia Basin
has been studied on various occasions since 1926. At present some 130,000
ha are irrigated in the basin and the Beni Amir scheme (Map 11853R) bullt
in the 1930's is the oldest irrigation network. Scarcity of water resources
prompted Government to prepare a "Water Resources Masterplant" for the basin
with a view to optimize the water allocation to the three main consumers:
agriculture, potable and industrial water supply, and power. The latest
plan was prepared in 1973-74 by consultants (SCET International) with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP). The plan indicated
that the proposed project together with rehabilitation of the Beni Amir
(para 1.03), is the least cost development alternative to meet the Goveru-
ment's Third Plan (1973-77) objectives of achieving (i) a balanced regional
development; (ii) an increase in agricultural production of basic food (sugar,
wheat, dairy products, etc); (iii) a reduction of the rural under employment;
and (iv) an improvement of the living conditions of the rural population.
The proposed project and the rehabilitation of the Beni Amir would fully
utilize all available water resources and existing irrigation infrastructures
before additional storage reservoirs are built on the main river at Sidi Cheho
and Dechra Oued sites. Government has already requested Bank assistance for
financing construction of the Sidi Cheho Dam and for studying additional
developments in the Tadla (Map 11853R) which would be possible by construc-
tion of the Dechra Oued Dam. The appraisal of the Sidi Cheho Project is
under way, while the feasibility study of additional irrigation in the Tadla
would be included in the proposed project.
1.03      The project was appraised [n May 1975 by a Bank mission. comprising
Messrs. M. Raczynski, H. Laeyendecker, M. Sulieman and C. Ardalan, all of
whom participated in preparing this report. The mission's findings were
discussed at Governnent's request with staff of USAID in Rabat. The mission
also appraised a project for rehabilitation of 14,000 ha in the Beni Amir
area in the Tadla perimeter (map 11853R). This project was prepared for the
Government by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and is to be financed by the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.



- 2 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Description
2.01      Morocco has a land area of 506,000 km2 and a population of about
16 million with an average annual growth rate of 2.6%. Nearly 10 million
people or 65% live in rural communities.  About 35% of the land is used for
agriculture, roughly equally divided between crop production and grazing.
In 1974, agriculture accounted for about 28% of CDP and employed about 55%
of the labor force. About 30% of the agricultural output is exported, mainly
to Europe, with France accounting for more than one half the value of exports.
The annual average agricultural trade surplus over the years 1970-1974 amounted
to about DH 750 million (US$190 million).
2.02      The long term historic growth trend of agriculture in Morocco was
estimated by the Bank's Economic Mission (1973) to be about 3% per annum.
However, growth of the value of agricultural production averaged nearly 6%
during the period of the Second Development Plan (1968-1972), mainly due to
expansion of irrigation, increased use of fertilizer and other inputs, in-
creased production of high value crops and favorable climatic conditions.
The main objectives of the Second Plan vere the extension of large scale
irrigation, expansion of credit to large and medium farmers and export pro-
motion. Although the sector was stimulated during the Plan period, there
appears to have been a widening income differentiation vithin rural areas
as well as between rural and urban areas. The Bank Economic Mission estimated
that in real terme average consumption declined slowly for about one third of
the rural population, implying that benefits accrued mainly to medium and
large farmers.
2.03      During the period of the Second Plan, DH 2.5 billion, equivalent
to 45% of total investments, vas invested by the public sector in agricul-
ture, of which 64% was for irrigation, 6% for rainfed agriculture and 4%
for livestock production, with the remainder in a miscellaneous category.
Under the Third Plan (1973-1977) agriculture continues to receive the high-
est priority with emphasis tovards more productive investments in irrigated
and rainfed agriculture, and livestock improvements. The main objectives of
the Third Plan are to: (a) improve the trade balance of agricultural pro-
ducts; (b) increase the contribution of the agricultural sector to economic
growth through an increase in farm output; (c) raise farm income through irri-
gation and measures to increase the productivity of rainfed agriculture; and
(d) improve distribution of the growth of wealth in the rural areas through
land reform, and a better balance of government support to farmers. The
proposed project would contribute to these objectives in the Oum Er R'Bia
Valley by producing import substitutes and products for exports, increasing
the income of small farnmers, and providing village infrastructure.
B. Previous Bank Projects in the Agricultural Sector
2.04      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and
to date five projects representing US$24 million in IDA credits and US$148



million in Bank loans have been financed. The first loan, made in 1965,
was US$17.5 million for the Sidi Slimane Irrigation Project. The project
increased the storage capacity of El Kansara reservoir and provided for ex-
tension of an existing irrigated area served from the dam. Though perform-
ance under the project was satisfactory as far as civil works and agricul-
tural development were concerned, delays arose due to a series of reorganiza-
tion within the agricultural and irrigation services. By mid 1967 these prob-
lems had been overcome and the project was completed in 1970. In 1966 a loan
of US$10 million for an Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 433 MOR) vas made
to the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). The loan helped finance a
three year lending program for on-farm development and purchase of agricul-
tural equipment. Initial progress vas disappointing until a mutually satis-
factory agreement was reached between the Bank and the Government on reorgan-
ization of the local credit agencies involved in the project. The loan vas
fully disbursed by September 1969.
2.05      A second Agricultural Credit Project under which CNCA will borrow
US$10 million from IDA (Credit 338 MOR) over a three year period and a further
US$24 million from IBRD (Loan 861 MOR) commenced in 1972. The project will
help finance farm equipment for rainfed grain production, on-farm improve-
ments for citrus and winter vegetable production, livestock development and
marketing facilities for export produce. The project is progressing satis-
factorily and the loan amount it expected to be fully committed by the end
of 1975.
2.06      The Sebou I (US$46 million) project vas financed in 1969 (Loan 643
MOR) followed by the Sebou II (US$32 million) project in 1974 (Loan 1018 MOR).
The Sebou I project provides for the construction of a dam for irrigation in
the Sebou River Basin and for the equipment of some 38,000 ha for irrigation,
while the Sebou II project provides for complementary infrastructure (sugar
factory, roads, flood control) in the Sebou I project area. Numerous problems,
including a lack of continuity in senior management and difficulties with land
consolidation and reallocation programs, beset the Sebou I project at the start,
but these problems are now resolved and progress is satisfactory. The Sebou
II project is progressing satisfactorily and its main component, a sugar cane
factory, started operation in June 1975 as originally scheduled.
2.07      To finance the Soues Groundwater Project a US$18.5 million loan was
approved in May 1975 to develop irrigation on 7,300 ha of which 1,000 ha are
presently irrigated by traditional methods. The currently non-irrigated area
of 6,300 ha would be provided with sprinkler irrigation.  Water would be pumped
from wells. The project also includes land consolidation and distribution,
farm access roads, buildings, equipment for extension, training and operation
and maintenance, and village infrastructure to benefit a population of about
13,000 persons. Project execution is in its early stages.
2.08      In June 1975 the Bank approved an IDA credit of US$14 million to
help finance the US$32 million Meknes Agricultural Development Project. The
project extends over 170,000 ha and aims at increasing agricultural produc-
tion and improving income distribution mainly through introduction of improved
cropping patterns and practices, land consolidation and distribution and land
tenure reorganization. About 8,500 families would benefit. Project execution
is in its early stages.



-4-
III. PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Area
3.01      Area.  The Oum Er R'Bia is Morocco' s second largest river.  It
originates in the high and middle Atlas and reaches the sea about 80 km south-
west of Casablanca. The project is located outside its river basin (Map
11853R), and forms part of the Doukkala perimeter. It covers the Zemaura
subdivision, which extends from Sidi Smail towards Zemaira along the main
road to Safi (RP 8). It is presently dry farmed.
3.02      Population.  The population, including the towns of Zemamra (8,000
inhabitants) and Sidi Smail (5,000 inhabitants) amounts to 32,000 people
(Map 11855R). About 71% of the active population is directly employed in
agriculture, 4% in retail merchandising and marketing of agricultural prod-
ucts, and the remaining 25% in the industrial and service sector. Farers
live scattered over the countryside.
3.03      About 47% of the population is below 15 years old, which is close
to the average of Morocco, and an average household has 5.7 persons with a
labor potential of about 60 man-days per month. Most of the population is
underemployed. The average annual per capita income is about US$110, which
compares with a national per capita income of US$320 per year.
3.04      Electricity and Water Supply.  The existing 22 kV network is in-
sufficient and any further development would require additional pover supply.
The towns of Zemamra and Sidi Smail, and some of the Development Centers
(CMV) and project villages have domestic water supply from vells.
3.05      Transportation and Communication.  The road system is adequate to
meet present production levels but would need reinforcement and expansion
if agricultural production would be increased. The telephone network is in-
adequate and only serves part of the major towns.
3.06      Health.  A one doctor hospital in Zemamra and a 200 bed provincial
hospital in El Jadida serve the project area. The Government is successfully
completing a malaria eradication program.  Bilharzia exists in the Oum Er R'bia
Basin and affects mainly the Tadla Perimeter (Map 11853R). Government plans
call for a control program in Tadla under the proposed Beni Amir Rehabilita-
tion Project financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
No reliable data on bilharzia exists for the project area. Hovever the
adjacent and recently completed gravity irrigation system around Sidi Bennour
is heavily populated by several snail species, including some sinestral
pulmonates, which may be bilharzia vectors.
3.07      Education.  Educational facilities comprise 25 classrooms in the
project area, which is insufficient to meet the needs of the farming pop-
ulation of about 19,000 persons.



- 5 -
B. Natural Resources
3.08      Climate.  The climate is characterized by hot and dry summers and
relatively short and cool winters. Dry periods extend over six months and
rainfall averages 360 um and shows great variations from year to year. The
area is under maritime influence.  Average monthly temperatures vary from 12'C
in December to 25.6°C in August. Annual evaporation amounts to about 1,800 mm.
Further climatic data is tabulated in Annex 1.
3.09      Soils.  ORMVAD has carried out a soil survey (scale 1:10,000).  A
land classification classified 47% of the lands in the subproject area as
Class I, 16% as Class II, 33% as Class III and 4% as Class IV lands. Part of
Class III lands vould require subsoiling. Class IV lands are light textured
soils of limited depth and underlain by an indurated calcareous layer. On
technical grounds irrigation development of the Class IV lands would have a
low priority. However, small holdings are located in this area and land con-
solidation has been completed, thus creating expectations for further devel-
opment.   ORMVAD proposes to break the crust and destone this area for better
root penetration. Before project execution, pedological maps covering this
problem area (about 3,200 ha north of route CT 1307) would be revised in order
to define the exact scope of land preparation vork. A number of 15 m high
gentle rising mounds, covering about 15% of the area, rise out of the sur-
rounding flat terrain.
3.10      The project area, because of its topographic and pedologic condi-
tion, should only be sprinkler irrigated. The relatively shallow soils do
not permit necessary land levelling for installation of a gravity system.
Purther details on soils are given in Annex 2.
3.11      Water Resources.  The Oum Er R'Bia river originates in the high and
middle Atlas Mountains and has a drainage area above Im Fout (diversion point
for Doukkala) of 30,600 km2. Highest annual discharges occur in March and
lowest in August. Dams constructed on the two main tributaries regulate its
flow. Salt springs upstream of Khenifra contribute to a relatively high
salinity content of the water which is gradually diluted in a downstream
direction. Water availability during the summer months, especially in July
and August (Annex 3), is the limiting factor for extension of irrigation
schemes. Construction of storage reservoirs at Dechra el Oued and Sidi
Cheho nov envisaged by Governnent, would allow extension of the irrigated
area in the Oum Er R'bia basin. Groundwater resources in the project area
are of limited potential and poor quality.
C. Land Tenure
3.12      All lands are private freehold.  About 77% of the holdings are of
less than 5 ha. Land consolidation to be implemented under the project is
governed by the Land Consolidation Law of 1962 and the Agriculture Invest-
ment Code of 1969. The main objectives of the existing legislation are to



- 6 -
(a) stabilize ownership pattern by providing title security; and (b) estab-
lish viable family holdings by eliminating fragmentation and future sub-
division (Annex 4).
D. Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields
3.13      The project area (15,400 ha) is presently dry farmed with wheat
occupying 63%, maize 10%, and beans 10% of the area. The remainder is
fallowed. Sheep, goats and cattle subsist in fallowed land, supplemented
by crop residues and stubble (Annex 5). Yields depend on rainfall. Present
average crop production amounts to about 9,600 tons wheat, 1,200 tons maize,
1,300 tons beans, 2,500 tons of milk and 700 tons of beef (para. 6.04). The
low level of incomes makes it difficult to introduce improved agricultural
techniques and additional inputs which in any case could only be of compara-
tively limited benefit without additional and more reliable vater resources.
E. Marketing and Cooperatives
3.14      With the exception of cereals and industrial crops, all produce is
sold through local markets (souks). Cereals may also be advantageously mar-
keted through the souks but the Government supported Moroccan Agricultural
Marketing Society (SCAM) provides a guaranteed outlet at specified floor prices.
Sugar beets are sold to the processing plants on a contract basis and cotton is
bought by the Moroccan Company for Marketing of Agricultural Produce (COMAPRA).
Home consumption and marketing through peddlers absorb part of milk production.
Livestock is sold by individual farmers in the souks. Buyers are mainly inde-
pendent butchers or agents acting on commission basis for larger institutional
outlets.
3.15      With the exception of milk collection cooperatives, no other coopera-
tives exist in the project area but experience in already rehabilitated areas
and in other newly irrigated areas show a rapid increase of cooperatives as
agricultural development is intensified. This is the result of (a) incentive
programa implemented throughout Morocco since enactment in 1969 of the
Agricultural Investment Code and (b) support and guidance given by Government
agencies (para. 5.06).
F. Development and Credit Institutions
3.16      Development of Moroccan agriculture is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) primarily through its five
major Directorates: Agricultural Development, Engineering and Construction,
Animal Production, Agricultural Research, and Forestry. In designated irriga-
tion development zones the Ministry carries out its task through eight Region-
al Agricultural Development Offices. Elsewhere, the Ministry operates 22



- 7 -
provincial offices and about 100 district extension centers. The project area
falls within the Regional Agricultural Development Office of Doukkala (ORMVAD).
ORMVAD is organized lnto 6 services: Administration, Agriculture, Livestock,
Operation and Maintenance, Design and Construction, and Equipment and
Buildings (Chart No. 15,200). The main responsibilities of ORMVAD are to
(a) design, supervise construction, operate and maintain irrigation projects
in the region; (b) consolidate land; (c) supply inputs; (d) assist in disse-
minating information to and management of cooperatives; and (e) train farmers.
3.17      ORMVAD operates field research stations which concentrate their
work on water requirements and irrigation management. Through Development
Centers (CMV) ORMVAD provides extension services, supplies inputs and co-
ordinates activities with the processing companies, marketing institutions
and credit sources. ORMVAD staff would require strengthening to meet
future project needs.
3.18      The Agricultural Research Department (DRA) is responsible for agri-
cultural research in Morocco and operates three experimental stations in
Doukkala. One is located in the project area, but needs additional buildings,
staff and research equipment to become functional. DRA, supported by USAID
and the International Center for Improvement of Maize and Wheat in Mexico
(CIMYT), successfully introduced and adapted high yielding cereal varieties,
and with the assistance of the French Institute for Research in Cotton and
Textiles (IRCT) and the French Company for Development of Textile Fibers
(CFDT), has produced cotton varieties like Tadla 16 and Tadla 27 (34.5 mm)
which, because of theîr strength, are highly appreciated in European markets.
3.19      Government also provides artificial insemination for cattle at no
direct cost to farmers. The service is provided through MARA's Department of
Agricultural Production but lacks equipment and staff.
3.20      Agricultural credit in the project area is provided through the
"National Agricultural Credit Bank" (CNCA) which maintains Regional Banks
(CRCA) in El Jadida and in Sidi Bennour, and a "Local Bank" CLCA in Zemamra
and Sidi Bennour. The credit system is well established (Annex 6). Other
credit sources are commercial banks, input suppliers and equipment dealers.
The non-institutional market provides also seasonal credit but its magnitude
is unknown.
3.21      Other ministries concerned with the development in the project area
include the: (a) Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MTPC) which
is responsible through its (i) National Electricity Office (ONE) for pover
supply and generation, (ii) Division of Water Resources (DRE) for water re-
cordings and hydrology, and (iii) Road Directorate for construction of roads;
(b) Ministry of Education for construction and operation of schools; and (c)
Ministry of Public Health for health programs and bilharzia control.



- 8 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General
4.01      The project would provide irrigation for production of wheat, sugar
beet, cotton and tomatoes and for production of forage for livestock. It
would reduce underemployment and improve rural incomes. Project beneficiaries
would include a large number of small farmers who would also benefit from
land consolidation and from construction of new village centers.
4.02      The project would provide sprinkler irrigation to 15,400 ha presently
dry farmed (Zemamra subdivision) inside the Doukkala perimeter. The selection
of sprinkler irrigation was dictated by topographical and pedological conditions
(para. 3.10). An added advantage of sprinkler irrigation would be the increased
speed of full utilization of irrigation infrastructure development as compared
with gravity irrigation. The project area would consist of four sectors, each
served by its individual pumping station and underground distribution network
(Map 11855R).
B. Description
4.03      The project would provide:
(a)  land preparation, surface drainage, farm roads and windbreaks;
(b) enlargement of the main supply canal (29 km), construction of
a feeder canal for Zo sector (6 km), and installation of auto-
matic flow regulators;
(c) construction of 4 electric pumping stations with a total
installed capacity of about 8,300 kW, each with one high
equalizing reservoir;
(d) construction of a 416 km underground vater distribution system,
including hydrants, and mobile sprinkler equipment;
(e) construction of 50 km of 60 kV and 50 km of 22 kV lines and
one substation;
(f) construction of main drainage channels (520,000 m3 of excava-
tion);
(g) construction of 21 km of new asphalt roads and 64 km of gravel
roads, and enlargement and reinforcement of 108 km of asphalt
roads;



(h) provision of village infrastructure;
(i) bilharzia control;
(j) feasibility study for the Dechra El Oued dam; and
(k) feasibility study for marketing of vegetables in the Massa
region.
4.04      The project would also provide land consolidation, buildings and
equipment for extension, operation and maintenance, artificial insemination
and agricultural research services, agricultural credit, milk collecting
centers, and telephone facilities for the CMVs. Consulting engineering
services would also be provided. The major executing agency for the project
works would be ORMVAD. Major features of the project are described below
and in more detail in Annex 7.
C. Detailed Features
4.05      Land Preparation.  Soil and land classification maps for the area
north of route CT 1307 would be revised (para. 3.09) to define the exact scope
of subsoiling and possible exclusion of part or all of Class IV lands (600
ha). Land preparation would include subsoiling and destoning on about 4,000
ha. Farm roads would be 4 m vide. Ditches would collect storm water and ex-
cess irrigation runoff. Windbreaks would be planted around the parcels with
a density of 106 m/ha. Wind data from Casablanca located at 100 km from the
project area and on the coast, indicate vind velocities in excess of 4 m/sec
during 15% of the time. Wind velocities in the project area are expected to
be lover and the windbr.ak layout is similar to that of the successful nearby
Boulaouane sprinkler project.
4.06      Main Canal.  Between Km 77 and 105 the project would provide
automatic gates with downstream control. Between Km 89.3 and Km 105 civil
works would include canal rehabilitation and widening and minor structures.
Six kilometers of feeder canal would be constructed to supply the sector Zo
(Map 11855R).
4.07      Pumping Stations.  Four pumping stations with gated concrete inlet
structures and a total of 25 pumps would pump canal water through rotating
filter screens into the four pipe networks; 60 m high elevated storage tanks
would regulate pressure and, through automated controls, activate pumps to
meet demand fluctuations.
4.08      Pipe Distribution System.  Buried distribution systems would consist
of 1,400 mm to 60 cm diameter pipes (concrete and asbestos cement) with a
density of 27 m/ha distributing water to hydrants. Hydrants serving 15.6
ha units would be equipped with two constant discharge outlets, and would be
spaced at 294 m intervals along the buried pipeline. Mobile sprinkler equip-
ment per unit would consist of two central feeder pipes, and of four moving



- 10 -
laterals of 153 m. The sprinkler pattern would be 18 x 18 m and the intensity
6 mm/hour, operating in two lateral positions of 10 hours each per 24 hours
during peak demand. Operating pressure would be 3.0 bar.
4.09      Power Supply.  Power supply would be provided by constructing 50 km
of 60 kV line from the present terminal near Sidi Bennour to a substation in
Zemamra from where 50 km of 22 kV lines would serve the pumping stations.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that ONE would complete construction
of the power lines necessary to supply the project so that power would be made
available to the project as and when required.
4.10      Drainage.  No natural surface drainage exists in the project area
which is cut off from the ocean by a 50 km wide strip of fossil dunes. Main
drains (total excavation about 520,000 m3) would discharge water into two
large karst depressions from where the water would flow underground towards
the ocean (Map 11855R).
4.11      Roads and Telephones.  108 km of existing asphalt roads would be
widened to 6 m and reinforced and 21 km of new asphalt roads and 64 km of
4 m vide gravel roads would be constructed. About 50 km of telephone lines
would be constructed to connect pumping stations and CMV's with the new sub-
division headquarters in Zemamra.
4.12      Village Infrastructure.  The project would provide seven village
centers, all vith treated water supply, paved roads, public lighting and
schools.
4.13      Bilharzia Control.  The control program would be oriented towards
(1) surveillance of irrigated areas in El Jadida Province to detect and
destroy any colonies of vector snails and (2) diagnostic surveys and treat-
ment of cases of bilharzia among the human population. The project would
provide staff, equipment and chemicals.
4.14      Feasibility Study.  The project would provide for a feasibility
study by consultants of the proposed Dechra El Oued dam (paras 1.02, 3.11,
and 5.04).
4.15      Feasibility Study for Marketing of Vegetables.  In view of the po-
tential for increased vegetable production in the Massa region in southern
Morocco, where irrigation is just beginning, the project would provide a
feasibility study to be carried out by consultants on production, marketing
and processing investments for vegetables (para 5.05).
4.16      Buildings.  The project would provide headquarters for the Zemamra
subdivision of ORMVAD and for three new CMV's. Six milk collecting centers
vould be constructed.
4.17      Equipment.  The project would provide equipment and vehicles for
operation and maintenance, extension service, artificial insemination, milk
collecting centers and the agricultural research station.



- 11 -
4.18      Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit for purchase of animals,
construction of stables and for seasonal inputs would be available through
existing channels (para 5.14). Incremental credit requirements amount to
about DH 9.7 million.
D. Water Demand, Supply, Quality and Rights
4.19      Water Demand. Allowing for effective rainfall, types of crops to be
grown gnd a cropping in;ensity of 133%, the gross water demand iould amount to
1;3 Mm /year or 9,900 m /ha/year. Peak water demand of 21.3 Mm /month or 8.0
m /sec occurs in August, month with lowest river flow. Efficiency at farm
level was assumed at 75% and canal conveyance losses at 15% givinR an overall
efficiency of about 65%. The main canal also supplies the recently completed
Z6,000 ha Sidi Bennour gravity scheme and the 1,100 ha sprinkler scheme at
Boulaouane. Peak demand for these two schemes occurs also in August and would
amount to 15.7 m3/sec at full development. Therefore the total irrigation
demand would be 23.7 m3/sec. In addition to serving these irrigation needs,
the main canal would also supply 2 m3/sec for industrial and domestic needs in
Safi. At full development, the total demand at Im Fout headworks would thus
amount to 25.7 m3/sec.
4.20      Wae  Suply.  The Oum Er R'Bia river supplies the main canal via a
17 km pressure tunnel from headworks upstream of the lm Fout dam.  Construc-
tion of large dams at Bin El Ouidane and Ait Aadel have changed the regime of
the river. The lm Fout reservoir is largely silted up (75%) and has no sto-
rage capacitv for irrigation. River flows vere analyzed in the Oum Er R'Bia
-asterpian (para. 1.02).  In 8 ou5 of 10 years the flow would fullv meet the
dema9d at Im Fout headworks (26 m /sec) and allow for downstream reservations
(8 m /sec). Deficits of up to 16% would occur in 2 out of 10 years in the
critical month of August.
4.21      Water Quality.  The saline upstream river water is diluted by twO
malor tributaries but the average conductivity at lm Fout is still 1,260 mmhos/
cm  and water would still be classified as C3S1 (United States Salinity Lab-
oratory, Riverside). No negative effects may be expected as long as drainage
is adequate and relatively salt tolerant crops are cultivated.  The same waters
have been used successfully over a period of time for crops similar to those
proposed at full development.
4.22      Water Rights.  No problems are expected as waters belong to the public
domain and are administered by the MTPC which has transferred its powers in this
respect to ORMVAD.
E.  Construction Schedule and Status of Engneerinf
4.23      Construction Schedule.  Construction of project works would begin
in 1975 and be completed by December 1979. The proposed construction and ac-
tivity schedule is presented in Annex 8 Table 1.



- 12 -
4.24      Status of Engineering.  Preliminary design for the irrigation and
drainage network for the Zemamra subdivision has been completed and is satis-
factory. Final design for the Zl perimeter is completed. The Road Directorate
of MTPC has completed a study on the need for extension and improvement of the
road system. The location of CMV's and village centers has been selected and
detailed plans for buildings and village infrastructure would be prepared by
ORMVAD. A decision on location of schools to serve seven village centers and
of the milk collecting centers is still outstanding. DRA has prepared pre-
liminary designs for the research buildings. Final design and supervision of
construction would be carried out by ORMVAD. Selection of consultants has
been completed in accordance with Bank guidelines. Enlargement of the main
canal is in progress. ONE started preparation of power supply construction
work.
4.25      Consulting Services.  ORMVAD has engaged a firm of consulting en-
gineers to support its engineering staff in the final design, preparation of
tender documents, evaluation of bids, supervision of construction and start
up of the scheme (Annex 13).
F. Cost Estimates
4.26      Total project cost amounts to US$94.4 million (DH 366.4 million)
including taxes, duties and physical and price contingencies. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$42.0 million (45%). Taxes and duties
amount to about US$18.5 million (DR 71.5 million).  Cost estimates for civil
works and major equipment are based on unit rates obtained in contracts for
similar works in Morocco during 1975. Prices have been updated to January
1976 equivalent. Physical contingencies range from 15% for civil works to
10% for equipment. For all civil works, price contingencies were compounded
at annual rates of 14% (1976) and 12% (1977-1979). For equipment, price con-
tingencies were compounded at annual rates of 10% (1976) and 8% (1977-1979).
Overall contingencies amount to 45% of basic costs. The cost estimates are
summarized in the following table and shown in detail in Annex 9 Table 1.



/1                               /1
ID million                       US million               Foreign
Item                        Local    Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total         Exchange
Irrigation Network
Canals                           9.0        4.8       13.8         2.3       1.3        3.6          35
Pumping Stations                 7.2        3.8       11.0         1.8       1.0        2.8          35
Underground Pipes               49.5       26.6       76.1        12.7       6.9      19.6           35
Land Preparation, Farm&bads,eix-.  8.6      7.0       15.6         2.4       1.7        4.1          41
Drainage Network                 6.0        6.0       12.0         1.5       1.5        3.0          50
Electro-Mechanical Equipment     4.6       10.7       15.3         1.2       2.8       4.0           70
Mobile Sprinklers and Hydrants   9.7       22.7       32.4         2.5       5.8        8.3          70
Power Network                    4.2        6.3       10.5         1.1       1.6        2.7          60
Agricultural Management          4.0        4.3        8.3         1.0       1.1        2.1          52
Infra structure
Roads, Telephone Network, etc.  13.1       13.2       26.3         3.4       3.4        6.8          50
Village Infrastructure           4.7        3.3        8.0         1.2       0.8        2.0          41
Agricultural Credit              9.7        o          9.7         2.5         o        2.5           o
Administration and Consultants   2          7-9       17.0         2.        2.1        4.4          47
Subtotal                       139.4      116.6      256.0        35.9      30.0       65.9          46
Physical Contingencies          21.8       15.3       37.1         5.6       4.0        9.6          42
Price Contingencies             42.1       31.2       73.3        10.9        8.0      18.9          42
TOTAL                          203.3      163.1      366.4        52.4      42.0       94.4          44
/1 Discrepancies due to rounding



- 14 -
G. FinancinR
4.27      US$30.0 million of the proposed Bank loan together with parallel
loans totalling US$13.0 million from USAID would finance the estimated foreign
exchange component of US$42.0 million and US$1.0 million of local costs. The
financing plan would be as follows:
DH million     US$ million      % of Cost
Bank Loan                              116.4            30.0           31.8
USAID                                   50.4            13.0           13.8
Government Contribution                198.0            51.0           54.0
Farmers Contribution                     1.6             0.4            0.4
Total                             366.4            94.4          100.0
=               =    ____
The overall Bank loan of US$30 million would be for a period of 20 years
including a 5-year grace period.  The loan period was selected by taking into
account the life of the project and project elements and the grace period
approximates to the period before significant project benefits are generated.
Interest and commitment charges on the Bank loan during the grace period,
estimated to be about US$5.4 million, would be paid by the Government.
H. Procurement
4.28      Contracts for civil works and goods financed under the proposed
Bank loan vould be grouped to the extent practicable into 12 contracts as
indicated in Annex 11. These contracts would be tendered on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. A 15% preference margin, or prevailing custom duty, if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids for equip-
ment.
4.29      Procurement in accordance to local government procedures is appro-
priate for construction of village infrastructure, miscellaneous buildings,
telephone lines and windbreaks totaling US$3.6 million because, either the
character of the goods and works, or the amounts involved are such that for-
eign firmas would not be interested (e.g. works are scattered through the
project area). Individual purchases of equipment not exceeding US$80,000
and which would be financed from the proposed Bank loan would also be procured
in accordance with applicable local procedures up to an aggregate of US$700,000.
Bank staff have reviewed the local procedures and found them acceptable. There
iL adequate competition.



- 15 -
4.30      The contracts financed by USAID (Annex 11) would be tendered in
accordance with USAID procurement regulations. Government agreed that pro-
curement procedures outlined in paras 4.28 and 4.29 would be followed.
I. Disbursement
4.31      The proposed Bank loan would finance:
(a) 60% of the power transmission lines and related equipment;
(b) 41% of all civil works, except civil works for four pumping
stations and for village water supply financed by USAID;
(c) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of the ex-
factory cost of locally produced goods procured through
international competitive bidding, and 75% of other locally
procured goods; and
(d) 74% of the total cost of foreign consultants.
Savings on the proposed Bank loan, if any, vould be cancelled. The estimated
disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 12.
J. Retroactive Financing
4.32      Contracts involving up to a total of US$1.5 million of Bank finan-
cing awarded according to Bank guidelines after May 31, 1975 would qualify
for retroactive financing. Contracts likely to fall into this category would
be for power supply, electro-mechanical equipment for one pumping station,
enlargement of main canal, underground pipe network for one sector, four
water tovers and foreign consultants. Timely completion of these project
elements would assure early project benefits.
K. Enviroumental Impact
4.33      The project would improve the enviroument by providing bilharzia
control and village infrastructure in the form of village roads, water supply
to community tape, public lighting, schools, etc.



- 16 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      ORMVAD would be the primary executing agency and would be responsible
for the construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
works, and for agricultural development. ORMVAD would also be responsible
for construction of treated water supply facilities, project buildings, and
farm roads, and in addition would supervise construction of the village
centers. The Department of Animal Production of MARA would advise ORMVAD
in implementation of the cross-breeding program to maintain a proper bal-
ance between production potentials and disease and parasite resistance.
ONE would be the executing agency for construction of connecting power lines
in the project area (para 4.09) and the Road Directorate of MTPC would be the
executing agency for construction and improvement of the road network (para.
4.11). The Ministry of Education would be the executing agency for construc-
tion and operation of schools; and the Ministry of Public Health would be
responsible for elaboration and implementation of the bilharzia control pro-
gram. ONE, the Road Directorate of MTCP and the Ministries of Education and
Health would carry out their responsibilities through their local offices in
El Jadida. The Directorate of Equipment of MARA, in coordination with the
National Electricity and Water Supply Offices, would be responsible for super-
vising execution of the Dechra El Oued feasibility study (para 5.05). ORMVASM
and the Export Trade Office (OCE) would be involved in supervising execution
of the vegetable study (para 4.15).
5.02      A project Coordination Committee, with local representation of all
government agencies involved in project implementation, would be responsible
for the coordination of the different agencies involved. Government agreed
that the Project Coordination Committee would meet not less than once every
three months to approve quarterly progress reports, review past achievements
and future work program for each of the participating organizations and make
recommendations to take action as necessary to ensure coordination between
participants. The establishment of the Project Coordination Committee with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan.
5.03      ORMVAD. The existing set-up of ORMVAD was discussed in Chapter III.
The present organization would be restructured and strengthened for the im-
plementation of the project, in view of the heavy workload presently being
undertaken by ORMVAD, noticeably the development of the 27,100 ha already
equipped for irrigation. Because of the distance from the project area to
ORMVAD headquarters in El Jadida, subdivisional offices for (a) construction,
(b) operation and maintenance, and (c) agricultural development would be
established in Zemamra (Chart 15,200). The "Subdivision for Construction"
directly responsible to the Design and Construction Service in El Jadida
has already been created and its chief appointed. This subdivision coordinates
ORMVAD construction activities in the project area. Upon completion of pro-
ject works the "Subdivision for Operation and Maintenance", responsible to



- 17 -
the Operation and Maintenance Service in El Jadida, would assume primary
responsibility for operating the irrigation system and for major maintenance
and repair works. In addition Government agreed to create prior to 1979 the
"Subdivision for Agricultural Development", responsible to the Agricultural
Service in El Jadida. This subdivision would coordinate and supervise all
CMV activities. The Government agreed that the posts of chief of the latter
two subdivisions would at all times be filled by persons with such qualifica-
tion and experience as are required to ensure the successful implementation
of the project.
5.04      Consultants.  Present Design and Construction Services of ORMVAD
are understaffed to meet project needs. In addition to the proposed perma-
nent reinforcement of the Design and Construction Service (Annex 2 Table 4),
the size and complexity of the project works would require assistance from
a consulting engineering firm for design work, preparation of contract docu-
ments, evaluation of bids, supervision of construction and start-up of
facilities (Annex 13). ORMVAD has already selected consultants in agreement
with the Bank. Agreement was reached that their employment would be on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5.05      The Directorate of Agricultural Development of MARA would employ
consultants to carry out a feasibility study of the planned multi-purpose
Dechra El Oued dam. Outline of Terms of Reference are given in Annex 13.
The Government agreed to appoint consultants agreeable to the Bank on terme
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. In addition Government agreed to em-
ploy before July 1, 1976 consultants to assist the Government in a feasibility
study for production, marketing and processing investments for vegetables in
the Region of Massa.
5.06      Organization of Farmers and Cooperatives.  Farmers are expected to
join in groups when their land becomes more productive following the trend
observed in areas already irrigated in the Doukkala. With assistance of
ORMVAD they would establish independent service cooperatives to meet their
needs for medium and short term credits, bulk marketing, and coownership of
equipment (mobile sprinkler equipment). ORMVAD has previous experience in
the establishment of cooperatives and has also an ongoing training program
for cooperative managers to meet future needs in their perimeter. ORMVAD
has been effective in establishing milk collection cooperatives over the last
three years.
5.07      Following the experience in other irrigation projects In Morocco
farmers would group into "Water Users' Associations" to organize water
allocation among themselves.  The minimum size would be farmers served by
one hydrant. Farmers' water users' associations would select among themn-
selves a "common irrigator" responsible for equitable allocation of water
and to serve as contact between the farmers and government watermen.



- 18 -
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.08      The CMV's would organize water allocation and record hours of usage
for billing purposes. Also, farmers' water users' associations would select
among themselves a "common irrigator", (para. 5.07). Major repairs and main-
tenance of the irrigation system and of all equipment and vehicles would be
the responsibility of the Subdivision for Operation and Maintenance in Zemamra,
which, in addition to its central workshop, would be equipped with mobile
repair units. Minor maintenance and repairs of the irrigation system would
be carried out at the local CMV level. Farmers operating 4 ha or more would
own their own mobile sprinkler equipment. Farmers owning less than 4 ha would
join into cooperatives for ownership of the equipment. Operation and mainten-
ance of mobile sprinkler equipment would be the responsibility of the farmers
or cooperatives who would obtain assistance from the CMV's.
5.09      Operation and maintenance of schools would be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Education. No firm program has yet been established for
staffing and operation of the schools as their construction program would
start within the framework of the next national 5-year plan. Agreement
was reached with the Government that the Ministry of Education would provide
the staff and facilities needed to operate and maintain the schools as and
when required.
5.10      Maintenance of power facilities would be the responsibility of
ONE, and the Roads Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works would be re-
sponsible for all classified roads. Farm access roads would be maintained by
ORMVAD. DRA would operate and maintain the research facilities provided under
the project. Maintenance of water supply facilities would be performed by
ORMVAD until sufficient population has settled in the village centers and a
village council formed to take over this responsibility. The Government agreed
to cause ONE, MTPC, DRA, and ORMVAD to operate and maintain the facilities as
outlined above.
C. Services
5.11      Supply of Inputs.  Under the project land preparation, bulk sowing
and cereal harvesting would continue to be mechanized. Farmers would use their
animals for cultivation of rowerops and transport within the farm. Agricultural
machinery is available through ORMVAD at subsidized interest rates and through
private entrepeneurs. Agricultural inputs required for the project area are
listed in Annex 2. Inputs would be supplied to farmers through local mer-
chants and through CMV's. Extension agents would assist individual farmers
and cooperatives in selecting type and quantity of inputs and in obtaining
necessary credit. For sugar beet, cotton and maize, farmers would participate
in a package program. This integrated cropping operation is organized and
managed by ORMVAD and includes supervised credit in form of materials, e.g.
seeds, fertilizer, services, and cash payment (Annex 6).



- 19 -
5.12      Extension.  The extension service would be improved by (a) appoint-
ing agriculturists to head the CMV's; (b) increasing the number of agents to
10 per CMV; and (c) providing necessary vehicles. The number of agents would
correspond to one per 65 farmers or about 300 ha and could be reduced once
full development is achieved in about six years after project implementation.
Government agreed to cause ORMVAD to employ necessary staff for agricultural
extension in the project area. Subject matter apecialists of the Agriculture
and Livestock Service vould assist the agents. The artificial insemination
service would be strengthened by providing staff and vehicles. Annex 2
Table 4 gives incremental staff requirements.
5.13      Research. Research facilities would be strengthened.  The DRA
station at Jeuie Sahim would be developed under the project and become the
main station for applied research and seed production. The station has basic
agricultural equipment and the project would provide buildings, vehicles,
research equipment, animals and incremental staff (Annex II Table 3).
5.14      Credit.  At full development incremental annual requirements for
seasonal credit would total DH 5.9 million and for medium term credit about
DH 3.8 million. Medium term credit would be requîred in the initial stages
mainly for livestock development and stables. Present credit practices are
satisfactory and the Goverîment has sufficient funds to meet project needs.
CNCA also finances loans to farmers participating in integrated cropping
operations (supervised credit) organized and managed by ORMVAD. Crops in-
cluded are sugarbeet, cotton and hybrid maize. Government would make avail-
able at all times sufficient funds to meet credit needs. Credit would be
provided to farmers, groups of farmers and cooperatives (Annex 6).
D. Land Consolidation
5.15      All lands benefitting from the project are private freehold and vould
be consolidated as the first step in project implementation. Land tenure
changes to be implemented by the project are governed by the Land Consolidation
Law of 1962 and the Agricultural Investment Code of 1969 (Annex 4). The main
objectives of the existing legislation are to (a) stabilize ownership patterns,
and (b) establish viable family holdings by eliminating fragmentation and
future subdivision.
5.16      Based on results obtained on already consolidated land (60% of the
project area) farm size distribution after land consolidation which would be
completed in time for project implementation is expected to be as follows:



- 20 -
Farm Size                           Farm Units                      Area
__(ha)                           Number        %                Ha
0 - 2                            1,370         43              1,960         13
2 - 5                            1,130         35              4,850         31
5 -10                              440         14              3,850         25
10-20                              124          4              1,490          10
Above 20                           136          4              3,250          21
Total                  3,200       100             15,400         100
E.  Recovery of Project Costs
5.17      The Agricultural Investment Code of 1969 provides for the recovery
from project beneficiaries, over the life of the project of full operation and
maintenance costs and up to a maximum of 40% of the investment costs. Costs
are recovered through (a) a fixed betterment levy on a per ha basis, (b) a
basic water charge on a volumetric basis, and (c) a supplementary water charge
to cover energy costs for pumping. The betterment levy amounts to DH 1,500
per ha; however the first 5 ha of holdings up to 20 ha are exempted from pav-
ment of the betterment levy. In addition, farmers can choose to pay the levy
through annual installments over 20 years. Over the first five years of ir-
rigated cultivation, the amount of the basic water charge is increased
linearly to the full base rate.
5.18      For the Bank financed Sebou II Development Project (Loan 1018 MOR)
the Government agreed to a periodic review of the levels of the basic water
charge to take into account actual operation and maintenance and investment
costs. Later under the Bank financed Souss Groundwater Project (Loan 1123
MOR) Government agreed to collect water charges from the start of irriga-
tion and review them thereafter at its own initiative or at the request of
the Bank, with the objective to recover throughout the life of the project
actual operation and maintenance costs and up to 40% of the actual capital
costs, taking into account beneficiaries incentives and capacity to pay.
For the proposed project, Government has agreed to recover, beginning in the
fifth year of irrigation, all actual operating and maintenance costs and,
taking into account the beneficiaries' incentives and capacity to pay, to
recover over the life of the project a reasonable proportion of the actual
capital costs through the water charges and betterment levy provisions of
the Agricultural Investment Code. Furthermore, an understanding was reached
at negotiations that the proportion of capital caste, discounted at the social
discount rate, to be so recovered would, subject to the beneficiaries' capa-
city to pay, be 40%, less that amount represented by the exemptions from the
betterment levy provided for under the Investment Code.



- 21 -
5.19      The energy cost for pumping for the Doukkala subproject would be
passed directly to consumers through the supplementary watercharge (para 5.17).
The present bulk tariff, which ORMVAD is likely to pay for electricity, DH
0.128 per kilowatt hour, is close to the estimated marginal cost of provïding
power. In addition Government in accordance with the Agricultural Investment
Code is preparing an index to adjust the basic water charge (para 5.17) in
accordance with certain parameters (construction costs, prices of agricultural
inputs and commodities) to compensate for the effect of inflation.  The Gov-
ernment indicated its intention to institute a system for indexing before the
end of 1977.  The Government has also informed the Bank that it is at present
undertaking a review of water charges for irrigation throughout Morocco, and
that the new structure of water charges, which would be implemented as a re-
sult of this review will retain the element of progressivity with incomes,
which ls a feature of the present structure, resulting from the exemption of
small farmers from the betterment levy.
5.20      For the proposed project using (a) the method of calculation agreed
upon during negotiations, (b) a discount rate of 10%, and (c) 1975 prices, re-
sults in a charge of DH 147 per thousand cubic meters (US$37.9). The charge
consists of DH 115 as a basic charge and DH 32 as a supplementary pumping
charge. This would correspond to an annual operation and maintenance charge
of US$203 per hectare and an annual investment recovery charge of US$118 per
hectare.
5.21      The proposed water charges would together be about 400% higher than
the basic water charge of DH 29 per thousand cubic meters imposed on benefi-
ciaries of other new irrigation schemes in Morocco. Proposed recovery charges
would correspond to the following percentages of net incremental value of pro-
duction on different farm types (para 6.12):
Recovery Charges plus Incremental
Recovery Charges Expressed as          Benefit Taxes Expressed as
Z of         Z of Incremental        Z of         Z of Incremental
Net Value          Net Value         Net Value           Net Value
of Production      of Production    of Production        of Production
Farm Type
2 ha Farm     32                 39                 34                   42
5 ha Farm     32                 39                 34                   42
25 ha Farm    43                 47                45                    50
Although at full development this would leave the majority of farmers with a
per capita income below the projected national average, the charge ls con-
sidered reasonable considering low projected incomes of the farming population
in adjacent areas which do not benefit from the project.  Project farm families
operating less than 5 ha farms would have extra income from part time paid
labor on larger farms.  Proposed charges leave sufficient incentives to farm-
ers to participate in the agricultural development. The table below indicates
by income classes number of farm families and benefit recovery indexes.  The
figures compare with an absolute poverty level for Morocco estimated at US$79
per capita.



- 22 -
Average per /t    Representative         Farm Families            Benefit
Capita Income-        Farm Size            No.        %         Recovery Index
US$304/2             2 ha             1,300       40               43
US$540               5 ha             1,640       52               43
US$1,800            25 ha               260        8               53
/1   At full development net of all taxes and water charges.
/2  Includes US$90 for income as laborer.
5.22      To measure the subsidy element direct project cost and project
revenues (based on assumptions outlined in para 5.20) were discounted at a
rate of 10% over project life. The present value of costs is DH 230 million
and the present value of revenues is DH 115 million, which corresponds to 50%
deficiency in recovery of costs. The Government however would also benefit
from (a) incremental benefit taxes, and (b) differences in prices paid to
farmers and world market prices for agricultural commodities (para 6.11).
For sugar beet the price difference is about 30% and for cotton 17% (Annex 14).
These additional benefits, discounted over project life at 10% interest would
amount to about DH 39 million. The Cost Recovery Index would therefore be 67%.
5.23      Because of the relative poverty of the population no direct parti-
cipation of beneficiaries in investments for village infrastructure has been
considered. However, in accordance with Moroccan legislation beneficiaries
would pay municipal taxes and thus would indirectly contribute to recovery
of these investments. Investments, operation and maintenance of classified
roads are financed through taxes on gasoline.
F. Monitoring
5.24      During project implementation continuous collection of data would
be necessary as a basis for decision-making by project management. An im-
portant function of the reports would be to provide early warning on develop-
ing problems which, unless corrected, would prejudice the success of the
project.
5.25      Success of the project in the long run vould be expressed in in-
cremental production and incremental farm income. ORMVAD is presently
monitoring production of different areas at the market outlets (processing
industries, milk collection centers, cooperatives). Government agreed that
ORMVAD would continue to monitor production and that in addition to normal
reporting requirements a sample survey on production and incomes of repre-
sentative farms and a corresponding analysis be carried out in 1980 in order
to facilitate evaluation of actual project benefits. In addition, Government
agreed to cause the Ministry of Public Health to monitor the incidence of
bilharzia in both subproject areas and take immediate action if the incidence
of the disease increases in either subproject area throughout the life of the
project. The Ministry of Public Health would submit annual reports on the
subject to the Bank.



- 23 -
G. Accounts and Audit
5.26      The government agencies maintain budgets and accounts which are
satisfactorily audited by the Auditor General. Goverument agreed that each
government agency that is responsible for any part of the project would main-
tain separate accounts for the project work with which it is associated and
that satisfactorily certified audited annual financial statements of these
project accounts will be forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end
of each fiscal year. In addition, in order to facilitate ORMVAD's control of
water charges, Government agreed to cause ORMVAD to maintain separate accounts,
reflecting revenues from recovery charges and investment, operation, maintenance
and replacement costs of the irrigation system.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
6.01      At full development in 1989 the main crops grown in order of de-
creasing tonnage would be alfalfa, sugar beet, tomatoes, berseem, wheat,
maize, barley fodder and cotton. The main livestock products would be
18,000 tons of milk, 2,000 tons of beef (liveweight) and 1,500 crossbred
heifers (Friesian).
6.02      Only minor increases are expected without the project.  Low crop
and livestock productivity is partially explained by low cropping intensity,
poor yields and low carrying capacity of pastures, which are direct results
of low rainfall and lack of irrigation.
6.03      After the project the production of crops and livestock would in-
crease appreciably as shown in the following table. Incremental production
would result from adequate and timely irrigation, a change in cropping pat-
tern, intensive cultivation, greater and efficient use of fertilizer and
effective pest and disease control. Greater use of this technology would
be achieved through improved agricultural supporting services.
6.04      The proposed crops and crop rotation takes into account soils,
climate, water availability, labor requirements, and marketing facilities.
Different rotations for typical farms include a heavy proportion of indus-
trial crops (Annex 2 Table 2). Yields are expected to increase significantly
because of irrigation, increased inputs and strengthened supporting services.
Projected yields take into account possible water shortages in 2 out of 10
years (para. 4.20). Adequate feeding plus an effective cross-breeding program
by means of artificial insemination and health control would raise the lacta-
tion significantly. Full agricultural development would be reached 10 years
after project completion. At full development, the cropping pattern, incre-
mental production and cropping intensity would be as follows:



- 24 -
Crops                   Without Project           With Project       Incremental
Area   Production      Area    Production   Production
(ha)      (tons)       (ha)        (tons)        (tons)
Wheat                 9,600      9,600         6,360      19,080         9,480
Maize                 1,500      1,200         3,970       9,925         8,725
Sugar Beet                -          -         2,900    130,500        130,500
Cotton                    -          -         1,360       2,040         2,040
Beans                 1,600      1,280             -           -        (1,280)
Tomatoes                  -          -         1,360      54,400        54,400
Alfalfa                   -          -         3,430    205,800        205,800
Barley Fodder             -          -           320       6,400         6,400
Berseem                   -          -           830      20,750        20,750
Milk                      -      2,500             -      18,000        15,500
Beef                      -        700             -       2,000         1,300
Total           12,700                  20 530
Cropping Intensity       82.5%                   133%
B. Markets
6.05      The pattern of production and marketing at full development would
shift towards industrial crops.  The proposed increase in cereals production
appears well justified as it would reduce the projected increase in deficit
for the country. No marketing problems for these products are therefore
foreseen.
6.06      Morocco imports increasingly larger amounts of sugar to meet domes-
tic needs. Projected future production of sugar beet would exceed existing
processing facilities. However the existing capacity is presently being ex-
panded to 4,000 tons/day. Additional capacity would therefore only be required
in 1982 to process sugar beets from the area already under irrigation and the
project area (Annex 14). Government plans call for a new factory in 1982.
Government agreed to provide adequate processing capacity at all times to
meet project needs.
6.07      No marketing problems are foreseen for cotton.  The 34.5 mm fiber,
because of its strength, is highly appreciated in European markets. Ginning
capacities in project area are adequate to meet project needs.
6.08      Tomato production would mainly be transformed into paste and ex-
port prospects are good. Private entrepreneurs have expressed interest in
setting up processing facilities in Doukkala. Credits for establishing new
plants are available through the National Development Bank (BNDE).



- 25 -
6.09      An important element in the country's dependence on milk imports
is the inability to offer the producer a reliable outlet for his production
throughout the year. The proposed construction of milk collection centers
(para 4.16) would reduce this problem. Future milk production would be
absorbed by the Central Milk Plant in Casablanca and a plant under construc-
tion in Sidi Bennour.
6.10      Additional information on marketing are given in Annex 14.  No
marketing difficulties are foreseen for project produce.
C. Prices
6.11      Two sets of output prices have been used for project appraisal,
one for economic analysis and the other for financial analysis of farmer's
income and farm budgets. For economic analysis, tradeable commodities have
been valued at international prices as described by the Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projection Department (EAPDI) for 1980, in 1975 constant US
dollars adjusted to a farmgate basis. Other products which are not covered
in EAPDI list of commodities have been based on the mission's estimate of
projected border prices. For financial analysis all commodities have been
valued at 1975 current farmgate prices including subsidies. The two sets of
prices are given in Annex 14. With exception of tomatoes and milk financial
prices are equal or below the economic price levels. In case of sugar beet
the difference is about 30%.
D. Farmers' Income
6.12      At full development average farm income of farm families operating
different farm types (Annex 15) would be as follows:
Net Cash Income (after tax)
Farm Type            Area               With Project          Without Project
(ha)             (DH)          (US$)    (DH)        (US$)
I                  2              4,970        1,280      1,330         342
II                 5             12,630        3,255      2,680        690
III                5             11,226        2,890      2,680        696
IV                25             41,600       10,720     6,780       1,747
The average per capita income of the farming population would increase from
US$110 to US$485 which would compare with a projected average national per
capita income of US$700 in 1992.



- 26 -
E. Main Benefit and Beneficiaries
6.13      Economic rates of return, costing hired labor at the market rate
of DH 10 per day and family labor at DH 8 per day and excluding village in-
frastructure, are summarized below:
Doukkala Project
1.   Basic Rate of Return                                           11.4
2.   Increasing all costs 20%                                        9.3
3.   Decrease Benefits 20%                                           8.8
4.   Increase Power Costs 50% and all other costs 20%                8.9
Details in other sensitivity tests are presented in Annex 16.
6.14      The major quantifiable benefit from the project would be the sub-
stantial increase in agricultural output which would raise farmers' incomes
and employment opportunities. The project would benefit mostly farmers
operating farms of less than 5 ha. Among the intangible benefits would be
the creation of better living conditions as a result of investments in the
social infrastructure which would enhance quality of life. The bilharzia
control program would improve the health standards and prevent any deter-
ioration in the Jadida Province. The project would leave an important ben-
eficial effect on the rural employment market.  Labor requirements would
increase at full development, increasing employment by 4,100 man years of
labor. In addition, the project would provide the greatest additional em-
ployment during periods wheu employment has been traditionally the lowest
and therefore would reduce seasonality of employment. Further use of exist-
ing processing capacities as well as establishment of additional processing
plants vill create varied employment opportunities (Annex 17).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements reached during negotiations included:
(a) A Project Coordination Committee with composition, powers, and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank would be formed and
would meet at least quarterly (para 5.02);
(b) The post of chief for the subdivisions of (a) Construction and (b)
Agricultural Development in Zemamra would at all times be filled
by persons with such qualifications and experience as are required
to ensure successful implementation of the project (para 5.03);
(c)  The Government would cause ONE, MTPC, DRA, and ORMVAD to
operate and maintain facilities (powerlines, roads and re-
search facilities) provided under the project (para. 5.10);



- 27 -
(d) ORMVAD would continue to monitor production in the project
area and carry out a sample survey on production and incomes
of representative farms in 1980 in order to facilitate eval-
uation of actual project benefits. The Ministry of Health
will continue to monitor the incidence of bilharzia and will
take immediate action if bilharzia incidence increases through-
out the life of the project (para. 5.25).
7.02      The establishment of the Project Coordination Committee with Terms
of Reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.02) would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
7.03      With the agreesents reached and fulfillment of conditions of effec-
tiveness the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 mil-
lion, repayable over 20 years with a 5-year grace period. The borrower would
be the Kingdom of Morocco.
January 9, 1976






ANNEX 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKARLA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Data
Month                                Temperature (OC)                          Relative    Evap-   Sunshine
Maxiumi    Minimum       Average   Rainfall    Uumidity   oration    Hours
(Dmm)       (7)        (mm)        (h)
January                        18.2          7.3         12.1        43   )
February                       19.0          7.7         12.9         59   )      82         246        590
March                          20.8          8.6         14.3         38   )
April                          22.2         10.2         15.7         24   )
May                            25.4         13.1         19.2          8   )       74        520        792
.June                          28.9         16.1        21.8          4   )
July                           32.9         18.9         24.9         0   )
August                         33.3         19.4         25.6          0   )       70        711        997
September                      31.3         17.1         23.3          8   )
October                        27.7         14.2         19.9        45   )
November                       21.4         10.8         15.3         74   )       78        319        650
December                       16.9          6.7         12.0         57                     -
Annual Total                                                      360                    1.796      3.029
Annual Average               24.8         12.5        18.1                      76
December 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Crop Production
General
1.        Out of 7.7 million ha of land suitable for cultivation in Morocco
about 6 million ha (80%) are cultivated. Nearly one million ha have irriga-
tion systems, but one-third of these receive water only in winter by flooding
and less than 400,000 ha have modern and efficient perennial irrigation.
Although grain crops mainly wheat and barley, comprise 75% of the cropped area
and about 40% of the irrigated area the wheat deficit in Morocco for 1975 is
estimated at 1.5 million tons.  Production could be significantly increased
by irrigation of dry lands and by giving full water supply on present partial-
ly irrigated land. In Morocco and in the Oum R'bia Basin where water is a
limiting factor, agricultural development should envisage efficient use of
this resource. The Doukkala Irrigation Project aims at efficient use of
water for production of sugar beat, cereals, and milk for import substitution,
and industrial tomatoes and long staple cotton for export. It would provide
sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha presently dry farmed in Doukkala.
Climate
2.        The climate is under maritime influence.  Annual rainfall aver-
ages 360 mm. Dry periods may extend over six months, and supplementary ir-
rigation is required for most crops in the project area. The rainfall pattern
shows strong variation from year to year. Average monthly temperatures vary
from 12.0°C in December to 25.0°C in August. Average minimum and maximum
temperatures vary from 6.7°C in December to 33.3°C in August respectively.
The relative humidity average is 76%. Evaporation amounts to 1,800 mm.
Soils and Topography
3.        The project area extends from Sidi Smail towards Zemamra along
the main road to Safi (R.P.8). The total net area covers 15,400 ha. The
average elevation is about 150 m above sea level and the general slope two
to three percent in northwestern direction. The microrelief is irregular.
A number of gentle sloping 10 to 20 m high mounds rise up from the flat
terrain. They cover approximately 15% of the area and would have to be ex-
cluded in case of surface irrigation.
4.        ORMVAD carried out a soil survey scale 1:10,000 (final maps 1:20,000)
covering the entire subproject area recognizing light alluvial soils along
old riverbeds and bordering the "Sahel", brown calcareous soils underlain by
calcareous materials, subtropical isohumic soils of limited depth underlain
by calcareous crusts, and deep vertisols. ORMVAD also completed a land
capability classification (scale 1:10,000) recognizing 4 classes:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Class I.   Lands suitable for irrigation farming, capable of
producing sustained and relatively high yields of a
wide variety of climatically adapted crops at a rea-
sonable cost.                                           7300 ha
Class II. Soils of medium depth underlain by a light calca-
reous layer. Suitable for a variety of climatically
adapted crops, not recommended for fruit trees.         2400 ha
Class III. Shallow medium to light textured soils limited by a
hard calcareous layer. Suitable for cereals, for-
age crops and most vegetables, not recommended for
cotton and fruit trees.                                 5200 ha
Class IV. Very shallow soils underlain by a hard calcareous
layer generally considered not irrigable.                600 ha
5.        Poorer lands which includes all class IV and part of class III lands
are mainly located in the Zo section North of road LT 1307 (Map 11855R). Class
IV lands are mostly light textured of limited depth (less than 50 cm) and
underlain by an indurated calcareous layer. On technical grounds irrigation
development of these soils would have low priority.  However small hold7-
are located in this area and land consolidation has been completed thus
creating expectations for further development among the local population.
The Government is reluctant to exclude these lands. ORMVAD based on experi-
mental results during 5 years in Sidi Bennour (para 17) proposes to break
the crust by subsoiling and destoning to achieve better root penetration and
crop development. Part of class three lands also require subsoiling. ORMVAD
vould, before project execution and based on existing aerial photography topo-
graphic maps and field checks revise the existing pedological maps in the
problem area (about 3200 ha all located north of road CT 1307) in order to
define the scope of land preparation works and to decide on possible exclu-
sion of all or part of class IV land.
6.        The project area because of pedologic and topographic conditions
should be sprinkler irrigated. The relatively shallow soils do not permit
necessary land leveling for installation of a gravity system. Experimental
results obtained at ORMVAD's field station in Sidi Bennour show slightly
higher yields under sprinkler irrigation.
Present and Future Land Use and Yields
7.        The subproject area (15,400 ha net) is presently dry farmed with
wheat (63%), maize (10%), and beans (10%). The remainder is fallowed. Sheep,
goats, and cattle subsist on fallowed land, supplemented by crop residues and
stubble. Because of the scanty and irregular rainfall (360 mm), yields are
low varying from almost nothing in dry years to 2 tons per ha for wheat,
1 ton/ha for maize and 1.2 ton/ha for beans in wet years. Average yields
and revenues do not allow improved agricultural techniques and additional
inputs.  Present average annual crop production amounts to about 9,600 tons
of wheat, 1,200 tons of maize, and 1,280 tons of beans (Table 1). No signif-
icant production increases are assumed under prevailing conditions.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        With the project the total area would be irrigated with sprinklers
and the available water supply would permit an intensive cropping pattern.
High value and labor intensive crops like sugar beet, cotton and industrial
tomatoes would partly replace wheat and beans. Alfalfa and fodder would be
grown for milk and meat production.
9.        Choice of crops and crop rotations take into account soil condi-
tions. To improve and maintain the fertility, mixed farming (crop/livestock)
would be implemented and the rotation would include a high percentage of
leguminous crops. At full development the cropping intensity would be 133%
and the pattern as follows:
Cereals              Wheat           6,360 ha
Maize           3,970 ha
Industrial Crops:
Sugar beets    2,900 ha
Cotton          1,360 ha
Tomatoes        1,360 ha
Fodder Crops:
Alfalfa         3,430 ha
Barley            320 ha
Berseem           830 ha
Rotations followed by different farm types are shown in Table 2.
10.       Yields are expected to increase significantly because of irriga-
tion, increased inputs and strengthened supporting services. (Wheat 3.0 tons/
ha, maize 2.5 tons/ha, sugar beets 45.0 tons/ha, cotton 1.5 tons/ha, indus-
trial tomatoes 40.0 tons/ha). Projections take into account possible water
deficiencies in certain years (once in 10 years 16%). Because of the author-
itan approach adopted by ORMVAD for the main crops (sugar beet, cotton, and
cereals) farmers are expected to achieve projected average yields within 6
years after receiving water. Projected yields are based on results obtained
in the already irrigated area in Sidi Bennour, on a sprinkler irrigated area
of about 80 ha within the Zemamra subdivision and experimental results and
take into account limiting soil conditions. The projections are significantly
below the currently obtained yields in DRA demonstration plots or research
centers. Future yields, and production are summarized in Table 1.
Inputs
11.       Labor and Mechanization.  Under the project land preparation,
bulk sowing and cereal harvesting would continue to be mechanized: (a)
because land preparation and harvesting periods create peak labor demands;
(b) in order to insure that a second crop can be grown on time; and (c)
because there are not sufficient animals within the project area. Animal
power would mainly be used for cultivation of row crops and transport within



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the farm. Tractors are available for sugar beet, cotton, and cereal opera-
tions through ORMVAD at a subsidized rate and through private entrepreneurs.
ORMVAD arranges aerial sprayings for cotton when necessary, but to the ex-
tent possible sprayings vould be done by the farmer himself. All other
operations would be done manually. Householde farming 5 ha or more would
require to hire additional labor during peak seasons. This demand would be
met by smaller farmers which othervise would continue to be underemployed.
Details on the employment situation in the project area are given in Annex 17.
12.       Seeds.  Improved seeds are available and would be used in the
project area. Research has been carried out with high yielding wheat
varieties and hard wheat currently grown in the area would be progressively
replaced by Mexican type soft wheat (Siete Cerros) and the Moroccan varieties
149/70/7 and 150/70/7. Tadla 16 is a cotton variety well adapted in already
irrigated areas of the Doukkala.  The fiber is shorter (34.5 mm) if compared
vith Pima varieties (38 mm), but stronger and appreciated on European markets.
DRA produced sufficient improved cotton and cereal seeds to meet project
needs. These seeds are distributed to the farmer through ORMVAD. In a
similar way ORMVAD has an agreement with COMAGRI, for sugar beet seeds.
The main sugarbeet variety cultivated ia Zwaan Poli and to a lesser extent
varieties like Maribo, Polibel, Tribel, KWS, Megapoly, and Delitsch Poly 24.
Alfalfa seeds are provided by ORMVAD and vegetable seeds (beans, tomatoes,
etc) are mainly distributed through private merchants. No difficulties are
foreseen for future seed distribution.
13.       Fertilizers.  Present consumption of fertilizer is low (140 tons N,
110 tons P205, 100 tons K20) but would vith the project increase to 1,700 tons
of N, 1,700 tons of P205 and 1,100 tons of K20. Recommended dosis assume use
of animal manure for main crops. A summary of estimated future fertilizer
demand is presented below:
NUTRIENT CONSUMPTION
N         P205         K20
--       Kg/ha/year--------
Crops
Wheat                          100          80          60
Maize                          100          80          60
Sugar beet                     150         120          50
Cotton                          60          70          40
Tomatoes                        80         120          80
Alfalfa                         20           80         60
14.       Fertilizers are distributed by ORMVAD and private merchants and
are available on credit to farmers, groupe of farmers and cooperatives.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       Plant Protection.  ORMVAD would organize and implement pest and
disease control. Pest and disease control materials are available for dis-
tribution to farmers through ORMVAD.  The main pests of the cotton crop are
the pink bollworm (Platyeda gossypiella), spiny bollworm (Earias insulana),
American bollworm (Heliothis armigera), and white fly (Bemisia tabaci).
About 6 routine spray applications are needed to maintain control. Sugar
beets are sprayed at least twice, mainly against aphids (vectors of virus
diseases) and dry heart rot (Boron deficiency). Metasystox, Endrin, DDT,
Dicarbam, Sevin, Borax, Ziram, Captan, and Copper sprays are the main
chemicals used.
Support iiL__ervi ces
16.       DRA is responsible for agricultural research in Morocco and has,
supported by USAID and the International Center for Improvement of Maize and
Wheat in Mexico (CIMYT), successfully introduced and adapted high yielding
cereal varieties. Cotton research and seed multiplication is supported by
the "Institut de Recherche pour le Coton et les Textiles" (IRCT) and "Compagnie
Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles" (CFDT) through bilateral
technical assistance. DRA operates 3 experimental stations in Doukkala: (1)
Boulaouane is the oldest station in the area but because of pedological condi-
tions not representative for the region; (2) Sidi Bennour is mainly dedicated
to fruit production; and (3) Jemie Sahim located within the project area,
would benefit from the project irrigation network and is representative for
both the Zemamra and Tnine Rharbia subdivisions. It would be developed under
the project to become the main station for applied research and seed produc-
tion. Table 3 gives a complete list of buildings and equipment to be provided
under the project.
17.       The sugar factory in coordination with DRA and ORMVAD gives tech-
nical assistance to farmers and carries out field experiments with sugar
beets. ORMVAD operates one field station in Faregh and one near Sidi Bennour.
Their work concentrates on measurements of evapotranspiration and management
of typical soils under irrigation. Experimental data collected in 7 years of
experience show slightly higher yields for wheat, alfalfa, and sugar beets
under sprinkler irrigation as compared to gravity irrigation in the prevailing
soils. Four years of experiments also show yield increases of about 10%
(sugar beet, maize, cotton, alfalfa) as a result of deep subsoiling and
destoning.
18.       The CMV's would be staffed (Table 4 and equipped (Annex 11)) to meet
roject needs. The CMV's because of their distance to ORMVAD headquarters in
El Jadida would depend directly from the Zemamra Office for Agricultural
Development.
Januarv 9, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Use, Yields and Production
Item                                                Without Pro,lect                                    With Project
Area             Yield      Production            Area               Yield     Production
(T)        (ha)       (ton/ha)     (tons)          %                     (ton/ha)      (tons)
Wheat                             62.5         9,600        1.0         9,600         41.3        6,360         3.0         19,080
Maize                             10.0         1,500        0.8         1,200         25.8        3,970         2.5          9,925
Sugar beet                         -             -          -             -          18.8         2,900        45.0       130,500
Cotton                             -             -          -             -           8.8         1,360         1.5         2,040
Beans                             10.0         1,600        0.8         1,280                 -                 -
Tomatoes                           -             -          -             -           8.8         1,360        40.0        54,400
Alfalfa                            -                        -             -           22.3        3,430        12.J         41,160
Barley Fodder&                     -             -          -             -            2.0          320        20.0          6,400
Berseenm -l                                      -          -             -            5.4          830        25.0         20,750
Total                        82.5       12,700                                 133.2        0O 0
/1 Green matter.
December 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Rotations
Item                           Area            Year 1                   Year 2                   Year 3                    Year 4                    Year 5                 Year 6
(h7a       Crops       -ha          Crops        ha          crops         ha          Crops       ha           crops         ha        Cropa        ha
Doukkala Subproject
Type I                                                                                                  05       Tmt             .
2 ha Farm                  2,100      AlfalfaL  0.5         Cotton          0.5       Wheat           0.5      Tomato         0.5
Maize           0.4      Barley
(Fodder)     0.5
Type II                                 AlfalfaL    1.25      Wheat           1.25      Sugar beet      1.25     Wheat          1.25
5 ha Farm                  5,200                            Maize           0.85                               Maize          0.90
Type III                                            00.3      Wheat           0.85      Tomato          0.83     Sugar beet    0.83        Cotton          0.83      Wheat        0.8
Maize           0.32                               Berseem        0.83                                Maize        0.3
Type IV                      3,100      AlfalfaL   6.25       Wheat           6.25      Sugar beet      6.25     Wheat          6.25
25 ha Farre                3,100          aa                Maize           4.25                               Maize          0.45
/L  Each year 25% of the Alfalfa would be ploughed and enter the rotation of annual crops.
December  1975



ANNEX 2
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Experimental  Station Zemamrc
Buildinz~s                                                    DH
Office and Work Rooms (250 m )                            162,500
Storage Farm Machinery and W5rk Shop (500 m 2)            200,000
Storage Farm groducts (500 m)                             250,000
Stable (500 m )                                           250,000
Silos                                                        6,000
3 Houses                                                  240,000
8 Apartnents                                              280,000
Collective (Laborers)                                     195,000
Water Supply and Treatment                                 150,000
Diverse                                                    66,500
Subtotal                                              1,800,000
Transport
3 Vehicles Type "R 4"                                      36,000
1 Vehicle Type Jeep                                        50,000
1 Vehicle Type "R l6"                                      20,OOO
l Truck 6 tons                                             60,000
Subtotal                                                166,000
Research Equipment                                           200,000
Animals                                                       60,000
Incremental Staff
1 A_riculturist (DH 32,000)A)                               16,000
1 Research Assistant (DH 40,000) ')                         20,000
1 Irrigation Controller (DH 12,000) ½)                       6,000
i Mechanic (DH 12,000) !)                                    6,000
1 Field Officer (DH 12,000)1½)                               6,000
1 Accountant (DH 12,000) l)                                  6,000
Subtotal                                                 60,000
GitAND '2OTAL
December 1975



ANNEX 2
Table a
KINGDOM 0F MOROCCO
DOUKXALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORMVAD Incremental Staff Requirement
Individual
Item                                         Number           Salary
IE7year
Central Office
Professional Engineers                       2              40,000
Junior Engineers                             2              32,000
Technicians                                  3              25,000
CMV (3 New Centers)
Technicians                                  3              25,000
Extension Agents                            12              20,000
Mechanics                                    3              20,000
Storekeepers                                 3              15,000
Secretaries                                  3              15,000
Bookkeepers                                  3              20,000
Artificial Insemination
Inseminators                                 3              20,000
Milk Collecting Centers
Directors                                    3              20,000
Subdivision (Zemamra)
Junior Engineer                              1              32,000
Technician                                   1              25,000
Mechanic                                     1              20,000
Watermen                                    20              10,000
December 1975



KINGDO< OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Water Require ents
Itefla                         Area        Units                                                    Net Irrigation Requirement- at Parcel
(ha)                Jan        Feb       Mar        Aur hav               June       July                      Sep       Oct        Nov        Dec      Aknual
Wheat                          6,360 )             1,781      2,035      3,244     3,498        -           -           -           -           -          -          -         445      11,003
Cotton                         1,360 )               -          -          -          340       666       1,224       2,339       2,298       1,741        -          -          -        8,608
Sugar beet                     2,900 )               667        725      1,392     2,117      3,364       3,480       1,856         -           -          116        174        290     14,181
Maize                          3,970 )               -          -          -          -         -           -         1,509       4,923       6,709      5,637        -          _       18,778
Tomato                         1,360 )   10          -          -          190        381     1,346.      2,026       2,217         -          -           -          -          -        6,160
Alfalfa                        3,430 )  mth          617        652      1,338      2,504     4,390       4,871       5,900       6,105       4,871      2,675      1,063        549     35,535
Fodder Barley                    320 )               125        102             -          -                -           -           -           -          -           32         58        317
Bersee,                          830 )               324        266                                                     -           266         946        739        374        266      3.181
Total Net at Parcel                           3.514     3.780      69164      8.8O       9.766     11.601      13.821      13.592      14.2        9.167      1.643      1608       97.763
Net Demand  /3                           m3/ha       228        245        400        574       634         753         899         882         926        595        107        104      6,347
Gross Demand  /3                         m /ha       304        327        533        765       845       1,004       1,199       1,176       1,235        793        143        139      8,463
Gross Deand /4                            l/s/ha    .136       .162       .239       .354      .379        .465        .537        .527        .572       .355       .066       .062
Gross Demand at Headworks /5              l/s/ha    .160       .191       .281       .416      .446        .547        .632        .620        .673       .418       .078       .073
For 15,400 ha Grogs Dmid at
Headvorks  56 Mm3/ onth 5.5                                  5.9        9.7       13.9      15.3        18.2        21.7        21.3        22.3       14.4        2.6        2.5      153.3
L1  Net Irrigation Requireent - Net Vater Requirement - Effective Rainfall.
12- - No crop during this » nth.
13  AJssUes a field efficiency of 75%.
L4  Assumas irrigation during 20 hours per day.
/   Assumes 15% conveyance loases and inatantaneoua d*nd baaed on 20 houri per day pi  iig.
j6  Assumes Im Fout reaervoir provideu storage during 4 hours of no-puaping par day.
December 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Land Tenure
1.        All lands benefitting from the Project are private freehold and
would be consolidated before construction of the irrigation and drainage net-
works. Land tenure changes to be implemented under the project are governed
by the Land Consolidation Law of 1962 and the Agricultural Investment Code
of 1969. The Land Consolidation Law provides a procedure for land registra-
tion and consolidation of existing fragnented holdings in areas delineated
by Ministerial Order, and subjects future subdivision of holdings created
by consolidation to approval by a local commission. The Agricultural Invest-
ment Code applies to areas decreed as "Zones of Development' within which the
State may intervene to reorganize land tenure through land consolidation, en-
larging small non-viable holdings and changing of boundaries to ensure effective
use of capital improvements such as irrigation facilities and drainage. In
these "Zones of Development", division of land into units of legs than 5 ha
is forbidden and tenure in collectives is limited to those individuals who
held rights to land at the date of publication of the law (July 25, 1969).
Within a decreed Zone of Development, further transactions are prohibited
until reorganization within the zone is completed. The code defines the
degree to which the farmers within a "Zone of Development" shall participate
in the investment for improvement of agriculture through a land betterment
levy and charges for irrigation water.
2.        Land consolidation has been completed on about 60% of the project
area. Before land consolidation about 60% of the plots were of less than 1
ha, 27% ranged between 1 and 5 ha and 4% between 5 and 10 ha, Only 3% of
the plots were above 10 ha. A holding or plot corresponds to a unit of
land and does not coincide with the concept of a farm unit.  One farmer on
average owns 1.4 holdings._ Land consolidation would ioin scattered land and
consequently reduce the number of holdings. Taking into account the results
of land consolidation on 8,500 ha, future farm size distribution is expected
to be as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Farm Size                            Farm Units                       Area
(ha)                        No.                x           ha                %
0 - 2                        1,370             43          1,960              13
2 - 5                        1,130             35          4,850             31
5 - 10                         440             14          3,850             25
10 - 20                         124              4          1,490             10
Above 20                        136              4          3,250              21
Total              3 200            100         15,400             100
ORMVAD has the technîcal staff and experience to complete the land consolida-
tion program in the Zemamra Subdivision.
January 9, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Animal Production
General
1.        Livestock production in Morocco accounts for one third of the total
value of agricultural production. Total animal production includes about 3.4
million cattle, 16.0 million sheep, 7.0 million goats and 0.2 million camels.
0f the 3.4 million cattle, about 3.0 million consist of the local breed Brown
Atlas; 0.05 million are cross-bred between Brown Atlas and Friesian; while
European pure breeds, mainly Friesian cattle, account for about 57,000 heads,
or about 1.5% of the total cattle production.
2.        Three systems of livestock production can be identified in Morocco.
The majority of production originates from extensive grazing on 12.4 million
ha of marginal land which is either collectively owned or state forest land.
In addition, these animals may have access to supplementary grazing on 3 to 4
million ha of crop stubble following the harvest of rainfed grains. The second
system of livestock production is intensive dairy production which depends
almost completely on purchased feed. It has developed around the outskirts
of large urban centers. The third system exists on irrigated perimeters and
areas of adequate rainfall where both livestock and forage production are car-
ried out on the same farm.  This system is envisaged for the livestock compo-
nent of the project.
3.        At present, cattle productivity in the project area is low because
of the following constraints: (a) low level of nutrition caused by inadequate
supply of feedstuffs at reasonable prices; (b) low production potential of
local cows at a reasonable level of nutrition; and (c) low capacity and thin
distribution of existing milk collection centers. The constraint imposed on
production by the prevailing managerial skills is of less significance and the
measures proposed to solve the major problems of production would enhance bet-
ter quality of farmers. Animal health is not a major problem and the control
measures and practices are satisfactory.
4.        The project would increase livestock production in the project area
through the following measures: (a) introducing grain and fodder crops in the
rotation and thus providing the basis for balanced rations; (b) improving local
dairy cattle productivity through cross-breeding with Friesian breed which are
the most popular cattle breed in Morocco; and (c) increasing the capacity of



ANNEX 5
Page 2
existing milk collection centers and installing additional units within the
project area. Cattle breeding would be accomplished through artificial
insemination. The project would provide additional inseminators, which would
be stationed in the project area and train selected farmers in insemination
practices. Specialists of the Department of Animal Production of MARA would
supervise the cross breeding program in order to maintain equilibrium between
production potential and disease and parasite resistance.
5.        Animal health is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Agrarian Reform. This responsibility is discharged through 10 regional
offices in the major areas of production. The project area is adequately
served through offices. The main diseases of cattle are brucellosis, septicemia,
fasciola hepatica and piroplasmosis. Diseases of less incidence are tuberculosis,
anthrax and blackleg. Free vaccination is available against septicemia and black-
leg.
Present and Future Livestock Production in the Project Area
6.        The project area corresponds to the Zemamra subdivision.  Beef
fattening and milk production are traditional enterprises among farmers.  Through
provision of irrigation water and supporting services such as artificial insem-
ination, veterinary services, marketing facilities and improved extension, the
project would increase livestock production from the current low of about 2,500
tons of milk, 700 tons of beef (liveweight) and 800 heads of breeding heifers
to about 18,000 tons of milk, 2,000 tons of beef (liveweight) and 1,500 heads
of heifers with high milk production potential at full development.  The dairy
herd in the project area would increase to about 11,000 head.
7.        Four different farm types have been analyzed (Annex 15).  Feed avail-
ability on type I-2ha, type 2-5ha (4 crop rotation), and type 3-5ha (6 crop
rotation) are shown in Table 2. Herd size and feed availability was assumed
five fold of type II on type IV (25 ha) farms.  Herd development and production
coefficients for representative 2 ha farms and 5 ha farms are tabulated in
Tables 1 and 3.
8.        About 15% of farmers participating in dairy production would receive
medium term credit towards the purchase of cattle and construction of stables
(Annex 6).  Labor would be supplied by the farm family.  One man would be able
to care for 8 animal units.
9.        The project would provide 6 additional milk collection centers by
1978 to complement existing ones in the area and meet project needs. MARA
manages a well staffed and equipped artificial insemination laboratory which
would adequately serve the area. To make its services more accessible to
farmers in the project area, the project would provide additional 3 insemi-
nators and 5 vehicles. Slaughtering capacity is adequate with two municipal
slaughterhouses in El Jadida and Ezmour and 3 large rural slaughterhouses
in Sidi Smail, Sidi Bennour, Zemamra. The central slaughterhouse in Casablanca
traditionally receives about 40% of its cattle from El Jadida Province. In
addition excess capacity of the municipal slaughterhouse in Rabat is estimated
at about 25%. Details on marketing of livestock produce are given in Annex 14.
January 9, 1976



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PRnJECT
Dairy Cattle - Herd Projection. Production Coefficients and Sales
(10 Farms-5 ha)
Before
Project                                                      Years Followïng First Irrigation
0            1             2              3             4              5             6             7              8              9            10
Herd Composition
Breeding Cows                              20            23             24            27            30             32            35             35            35             35             35
Calves       0-1 yr                        12            14             16            18             21            22            25             25            25             25             25
Heifers      1-2 yrs                        6             6              7             8              9             9            il             il            12             12             13
Steers       1-2 yrs                        6             5              7             8              8             8            10             12            12             13             12
/1
Total Animal Units                       32            34            38             43            47             52            54             58            59             60            60
Sales
Culled Cows                                 0             2              2             4              5             5              7             7              7             7              7
Steers       1-2 yrs                        6             4              7             8              8            10             9             12            12             12             12
Breeding Heifers                            2             3              2             0              0             2              3             3              3             4              5
Milk (kg)                               8,400        10,500        12,800         15,300        23,100         30,800        40,000         47,500        52,500         55,000        55,000
Mortality
Breeding Cows                               1             0              0             1              1             1              1             1              1             1              1
In-calf Heifers                             O             O              O             0              1             0             0              0             1              0              0
Steers       1-2 yrs                        0             1              0             0              0             0             1              0             0              1              0
Production Coefficients
Weaning Rate    %                          60            60             65            65             70            70            70             70             70            70             70
Adult Mortality                             3             2              2             2              2             2              2             2              2             2              2
Cow Culling      %                          O            10             10            15             15            17             20            20             20            20             20
Net Milk Production (kg)                  700           800            800           850         1,100          1,400         1,600          1,900         2,100          2,200          2,200
/1  Excludes calves.
Decernber 197S



MdwE  £ 5
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MO,ROCCO
mOUKKALA :RIGAT ION PROJECT
Feed Availability
Without                   With Proiect
Project                       Year
O           1        2       3        4     5       6
Feed Sourcetons-
___________-------------- tons -----------------------
Faryn Type I 2 ha
Whec,t Straw         1.'          2.0      2.0     1.9      1.8   1.7    1.5
Maize Straw          0.2           -        -       -       0.3   o.8    1.2
Bean Straw           0.2                -       -            -    -       -
Alfalfa  /5           -           4.5    12.0    13.3    15.0  28.0   30.0
Fodder (Barley) /1   -             -      1.6      3.4     5-4   5.7    6.o
Maize (Grain)        0.2           -        -       -       0.2   0,?    1.0
Farr Type II 5 ha
Sugar beet Tops       -           5.3    11.1    14.6    15.4  16.3   16.9
Wheat Straw          3.C          4.0     4.4      4.8      5.2   7.0    7.,
lMaize Straw         0.r          4.5     4.7      4.6     4.6   4.1    5.3
"lfalfa  /1           -           7.3    2C.0    22.5    40.0  68.8   75.0
Bean Straw           0.4           -       -        -        -     -       -
Maize (Grain)        0.4          3.8     3.9      3.8      3.9   3.'    4.3
Farm Type III 5 ha                                                   4
Sugar beet Tops       -           5.3     5.6    11.7    12.3  10.7    11.2
Wheat Straw          3.0          6.0     6.6      4.8      5.2   4.7      5.0
Maize Straw          0.'          0.9      1.0     1.1      1.3   1.7      2.0
Alfalfa 5.            -           7.5    20.0    22.5    25.0  45.7    49.8
Bean Straw           0.4               -            -       -               -
Berseem  /1           -            -        -       -     10.5  19.1    20.8
Maize (Grain)        0.4          0.8      0.9     1.0      1.1   1.5      1.6
/1  Green matter
December 1975



KINGDON OF MOROCCO
DOtUKALA IHRIGATION PROJErT
Dairv Cattle - Herd Projection, Production Coefficients and Sales
(00 Farms-2 ha)
B fore
Item                                    Prolect                                                        Years Folloviog First Irrization
O                          2             3             4                             6             7                           9              10
Herd Composition
Breeding Cows                             10           10            10            11            12              14            16            17            18             19            20
Calves      0-l yr                         6            6             6             7              8              9            il            12            13             13            14
Helfers     1-2 yrs                        3            3             3             2              4              4             5             5              6             7             6
Steers      1-2 yrs                        3            3             3              3             3              4             4             6              5             6             7
Total Animal Units /1                   16           16            16            16            19              22            25            28            29             32            33
Sales
Culled Covs                                O            1             *              1             2              2             3             3              4             4             4
Steers      1-2 yrs                        3            3             3              3             3              4             4             6              4             6              7
Breeding Heifers                           3            1             1             0             0               0             0             1              1             1             2
M1lk (kg)                              4,200        4,500         4,800         5,720          8,580         12,740        17,920        22,610        26,460         29,260        30, 800
Mortality
Breeding Covs                              O            I             O             O              O              O             1             O              O             I             °
In-calf Heifers                            O            O             O             1             0               0             0             0              0             0             °
Steers      1-2 yrs                        O            O                           0      O              O              O             O         0           1                           0
Production Coefficients
Weaning Rate      Z                       60           60            60            65             65             65            70            70             70            70            70
Adult Mortality  %                         3            2             2             2              2              2             2             2              2             2              2
Cov Culling       %                        O           10            10            10             15             15            17            20             20            20             20
Net Milk Production (kg)                 700          750           800           850         1,100           1,400         1,600         1,900         2,100          2,200         2,200
/1   Excludes calves.
December  1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Agricultural Credit
1.        The most important source of organized credit to the agricultural
sector is the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) established in 1961.
Loans through CNCA are disbursed either directly through the various Regional
Banks (CRCA) and Local Banks (CLCA), or indirectly through the_intermediation
of the various Development Offices of the MARA (ORMVA). Other sources of
credit are loans from commercial banks and suppliers' credits, but access to
such credit tends to be easier to larger farmers. Their amount is unknown.
Equally important means of financing are credit from merchants and landowners,
but again amounts and conditions are unknown.
2.        Farmers with fiscal incomes exceeding DH 3,000 per annum are eligible
for credit through CRCA. The CLCA finances the needs of small farmers with
incomes of at least DH 100 per annum but not exceeding DR 3,000 per annum.
Credit through Development Offices is limited, regardless of fiscal income,
to farmers participating in the integrated cropping operations organized and
managed by ORMVA. Such credit is therefore limited to crop loans for the
cultivation of sugar beet, cotton and hybrid maize.
3.        The yardstick used to divide farmers into those eligible for CLCA
credit and those for CRCA is based on fiscal income.1/ In line with current
practice, credit requirements have been calculated on the basis of fiscal
rather than actual farm incomes. Credit needs thus calculated would be ade-
quate to meet project needs, taking into account special arrangements for
industrial crops (para 2).
4.        Incremental income requirements of CLCA and CRCA have been calculated
on the basis of the DH 3,000 per annum fiscal income dividing line. Land dis-
tribution data has been combined with the fiscal income norms in the initial
and terminal years of the project, furnishing a basis for dividing the-land
area into that proportion that will be served by CLCA and the balance that
will be served by CRCA.
A.   Caisse Regional de Credit Agricole
5.        CRCA advances short and medium credit to individual farmers, groups
of farmers, collectives and agricultural enterprises. Credit facilities are
1/   Fiscal income norme in the project area are DH 300/ha for land under
traditional irrigation, DH 450/ha for land under modern irrigation,
DH 80-130/ha for dry land. Olives and industrial tomatoes command a
much higher fiscal income, DH 500/ha and DH 1,000/ha respectively.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
available for productive purposes, processing, stocks and marketing. The
terms and norms for loans are revised annually and published by the CNCA in
the "Regime des Prets des Caisses Regionales de Credit Agricole".
6.        The main features of the current regulations are as follows:
(i) Loan requests are prepared, often with the assistance of CRCA
staff and submitted by the applicant, together with supporting
documentation to the CRCA.
(ii) Short and medium term loans not exceeding DH 5,000 individually
and less than DH 15,000 in total can be extended without a
survey of the farmer and his holdings.
(iii) Loans not exceeding DH 60,000 (DH 30,000 in the case of credit
for land improvement) are generally handled by the regional
credit committee; requests for larger loans are forwarded to
the CNCA Board of Directors.
(iv) The type and amount of security required by the CRCA is at the
discretion of the Director. Generally, chattel mortgages and
the signature of guarantors are considered adequate, but in
certain cases land titles must be deposited.
(v) All loans are subject to (i) an annual commission of 4%
(except for loans to harvest 2%); and (ii) a guarantee
comission of 2% in the amount of paid at the time of
disbursements, which i8 paid to a Guarantee Fund.
(vi) Short term credit is limited to a maximum of one year at a
rate of 6% for cereals, 8Z for sugar beet, cotton and 8.5%
for fattening operations (Table 1). Norms indicating the
maximum amounts that can be extended for various purposes
are set out in Table 2.
(vii)  Medium term credit is available for a maximum of 10 years.
Interest rates vary between 7% and 8.5% per annum depending
on the type of loan and beneficiary (Table 1). Maximum norms
for various purposes are outlined in Table 2.
7.        The project is adequately served through CRCA in El Jadida which
i  the oldest and largest of the CRCA's in Morocco and a recently established
CRCA in Sidi Bennour. The Jadida branch has been experiencing a very rapid
rate of growth in terms of the volume of loans and its clientele. Due to
dynamic management, the activities of the CRCA have been extended into sec-
tors which had traditionally relied on private sources of credit, e.g. mar-
ket gardening.
8.        Incremental short term credit needs would amount to DH 1.6 million
at full development.  The increase is mainly due to a shift of clientele from
CLCA to CRCA as land is brought under irrigation and fiscal incomes increase.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Currently 85% of area qualify for credit through CLCA; at full development
this would fall to around 45%. Medium term credit needs will increase by DH
2.6 million at full development. The CRCA in Jadida is too far to serve the
project area.
B.   Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole
9.        The minimum fiscal income for eligibility for CLCA credit is between
DH 100-3,000 p.a. Short-term credit is available for up to a maximum of one
year at 4% per annum.  Medium term credit is limited to farmers with fiscal
income exceeding DH 300 and is extended for up to a maximum of five years at
6.5% per annum. Depending on the fiscal income of the farmer a maximum of 3
loans can be extended in one year, with annual disbursement of loans limited
to a maximum of 35% of the borrower's fiscal income. The maximum norms for
each purpose are outlined in Table 1.
10.       Security is generally in the form of the signature of a guarantor
combined with a survey of the farmer's holding. All loans are subject to a
2% tax on the amount of the loans which become part of an insurance fund for
the CLCA.
11.       There are two CLCA in Sidi Bennour and Zemamra.  Both have been very
active, notably the branch at Zemamra. Recovery rates have been very high (99%
in Zemamra).
12.       Incremental short term requirements would be small because (a) de-
creased area in wheat, (b) increased area of industrial crops participating
in the integrated cropping operations of ORMVAD, and (c) shift of CLCA's
clientele to CRCA as fiscal incomes exceed DH 3,000 (para 9). Medium credit
needs will, however, increase substantially as farmers expand their livestock
activities and would amount to DH 1.3 million.
C.   Office de Mise en Valeur
13.       Loans to farmers participating in the integrated cropping operations
organized and managed by ORMVAD are advanced through the respective Office.
Such advances are generally in the form of materials, e.g. fertilizer and seeds,
services (e.g. tractors), and fixed cash payments. Crops included in this pro-
gram are sugar beet, cotton and hybrid maize. Loans for sugar beet and cotton
are recovered at the processing factories; farmers being paid for their produce
after ORMVAD fhas deducted the farmers' outstanding debts.  Recovery rates are
very high for sugar beet since farmers have no option but to sell their crop
to the local processing plants. In the case of cotton, difficulties have ex-
isted. Farmers have had the opportunity and found it convenient to avoid
selling to the local ginning companies because of long delays in receiving
payments. The procedure has been revised and recovery rates have improved.
Recovery rates for maize are poor; however, credit extended through the
Office for this purpose is expected to be a temporary measure aimed at en-
couraging farmers to become familiarized with production of maize.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
14.       In the project area a growing proportion of credit requirements would
be financed through ORMVAD, reflecting the growing importance of sugar beet and
cotton. Additional DH 4.3 million in credit would be required. This is a sub-
stantial increase (49%) over ORMVAD's current level of lending.
D.   Conclusion
15.       The changes in cropping patterns at full development result in a
large shift towards credit provision through ORMVAD. Short term incremental
credit needs would be relatively small for CLCA and CRCA. Credit requirements
through CLCA and CRCA would increase mostly because of increased need for
medium term credit resulting from the increased importance of livestock ac-
tivities in both projects.
16.       Incremental credit requirements would be important.  There would be
an important shift of clientele from the CLCA to the CRCA. However, since the
activities of the CRCA are already very extensive, the incremental increase
would be fairly small in relation to the size of its operation. Inspite of
this shift, incremental needs of credit through CLCA would be important. How-
ever, this should pose no special difficulties. ORMVAD would double its scale
of operations. Incremental credit requirements in relation to total CNCA op-
erations would be very small (4%) and CNCA has sufficient funds to meet proj-
ect needs.
17.       Table 4 summarizes future incremental credit needs with the project
and indicates their importance in relation to 1973/74 lending.
January 9, 1976



ANNEX D
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Rates of Interest on Agricultural Credit
Source                                        Interest           Maximum
Rate   /1       Duration
CRCA: Fiscal Income   DH 3,000 per annum
Short Term
Cereals                                  6.0%            1 year
Sugar beet, Cotton                       8.0%            1 year
Fattening Operations                     8.5%            1 year
Medium Term
Agrarian Reform Groups and Cooperatives 7.0%            10 years
Standard Rate                            8.5%           10 years
CLCA: Fiscal Income  DR 100-3,000 per annum
Short Term                                 4.0%            1 year
ORMVA: (Integrated Cropping Operations)
Short Term
Cereals                                  6.o%            1 year
Sugar beet, Cotton                       8.0%            1 year
Commercial Banks
Short Term                                   8.0-10.0%
Medium Term                                     12.0%
/1 Nominal
December 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit Availability Norms 1974/75
(DH/ha)
Item                                               CRCA                 CLCA                ORMVAD
Small Term Credit
Sugar beet                                                                                 900
Cotton                                              -                   -                  800
Wheat:
Traditional Varieties                            250                 35(0
High Yielding Varieties                          350                 35(
Maize:
Local Varieties                                  350                 35()
Hybrids                                          500                 350
Industrial Tomatoes                              1,300                 90(
Vegetables                                       1,100                 900)
Berseem                                             250                30(
Lucerne                                             -  A               900
Beans                                               300                300
CRCA                                     CLCA
Norm                Years                Norm              Years
Medium Term Credit
Lucerne                      DH 1,300               3-4                 - A
Agricultural Equipment       70%                    3-6                80%                 2
Irrigation and
Drainage                    70%                    6                  80%                 5
Construction                 DH 50-150/m2           7-10               DH 50/m2            5
Cattle:
Imported                   70%                   4-5                 80%                 3-5
(DH 3,000 max.)
Local                      70%                   4-5                 b0%                 3-5
(DH 2,200 max.)
L Only available on medium term.
December 1975



ANNEX b
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUEKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loans Advanced by CRCA and CLCA
% of total
Item                                  1972/73            j973/7J~  CRCA, CLCA
otAt Amount                   Loans
--------------- DH Million -----------------
CRCA: (El Jadida)
Short                              9,700              16,100
Medium                             7,800              11,200
Total                           17,500              27,300       13%
CLCA: (Sidi Bennour/Zemamra)
Short                                 78                 322
Medium                             i,ih6               3,530
Total                            1,224               3,852        5%
Grand Total Doukkala            18,724              31,152       11%
Deceaber, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 4
KINGDON OF HOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Credit Requirements
Increase
over 1973/7X
Region               Short Term      Medium Term        Total        Lending
--------- (DH'OOO) ----- --
CLCA                      24.o         1,263.0         1,287.0         33%
CRCA                   1,603.0         2,587.0         4,19o.o         17%
ORMVAD                 4,26o.o            -            4,26o.o         49%
Total                5 887 0         3,850.0         9,737.0
December 1975



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Project Description
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        Development of Land and Water Resources of the Oum Er R'bia Basin
has been studied on various occasions sin'ce 1926. Major irrigation schemes in
the basin are carried out in the Tadla and Doukkala regions. About 100,000 ha
are now irrigated in the Tadla (31,000 ha in the Beni Amir and 69,000 ha in
the Beni Moussa) and 26,000 ha in the lower Doukkala (see Map 11853 R). The
oldest scheme in the basin is the Beni Amir Perimeter, which was built in the
1930s and now needs to be rehabilitated. Construction of the other two peri-
meters (Beni Moussa and Lower Doukkala) started in the 1950s and irrigation
and drainage works are generally in a satisfactory condition. Scarcity of
water resources prompted government to prepare a "Water Resources Masterplan"
for the basin with a view to optimize the water allocation to the three major
consumers: agriculture, industrial and domestic water supply, and power. The
latest plan was prepared in 1973/74 by consultants (Scet International) with
the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program CP. The plan indicated that
the proposed project is the least cost development alternative to meet the
GoverLments Third Plan (1973-77) objectives of achieving (i) a balanced
regional development; (ii) an increase in production of basic food (sugar,
wheat, dairy products, etc); (iii) a reduction of the rural underemployment;
and (iv) an improvement of the living conditions of the rural population. The
proposed project would fully utilize all available water resources and existing
infrastructures before additional storage reservoirs are built on the main
stem of the river at Sidi Cheho and Dechra el Oued Sites (Map 11853R). Govern-
ment has already requested Bank assistance fianncing construction of the Sidi
Cheho dam and for studying additional development in the Tadla area, which
would be possible by construction of the Dechra el Oued dam. The Bank intends
to appraise the Sidi Cheho Project in the near future, while the feasibility
study of the Dechra el Oued dam would be included under the proposed project.
2.        The Lower Doukkala scheme adequately serves 26,000 ha.  The Govern-
ment requested Bank participation in financing the development of additional
32,000 ha. However the intensive irrigation development of the entire area
would require additional water supply from the projected multipurpose Sidi
Cheho reservoir. An analysis based on giving less water over the entire area
and using less intensive cropping pattern showed a marginal economic rate of
return.  The project was therefore reduced to the Zemamra subdivision (15.400
ha) which can be irrigated with the available water supply and where land



ANNEX 7
Page 2
consolidation has been completed in 60% of the area. Future extension of the
Lower Doukkala area bringing the total to 32,000 ha would be possible if ad-
ditional water from Sidi Cheho becomes available. The possibility would also
exist of irrigating land in the upper Doukkala after completion of the Sidi
Cheho dam. However, this would require feasibility studies including in
particular an assessment of the impact of such a project on the Sidi Cheho
operations and benefits.
B. Descptionofthe Projec
3.        The project would irrigate the four sectors of Zemamra subdivision.
totalling 15,400 ha. Each sector would be served by its own pumping station.
Distribution of sectors and implementation schedule would be as follows:
Perimeter            Net Area (ha)              First Water
zi                     4,150                November 1977
Zo                     5,900                November 1978
Z2                     2,900                November 1979
Z3                     2,460                November 1979
4.        Crops to be grown would be sugar beet, cotton, industrial tomatoes.
wheat and fodder for milk and beef production.
5.        Land consolidation has been completed in 8,500 ha and is well ad-
vanced in the remaining area. Land improvement would consist of subsoiling
about 4,000 ha to rip indurated layers of calcareous material.
6.        The main canal vould be enlarged over 29 km to accommodate project
demand. Automatic gates in the main canal would regulate water levels in the
different canal sections.  A new feeder canal would supply the Zo pumping
station (Map 11855R).  Four pumping stations with a combined installed capaclty
of 8,320 kW would suppiy water from the main canal into an underground network
and hydrants, each covering 16 ha served by mobile equipment. Power for the
pumping station would be supplied through extension (50 km) of a 60 kV line,
which presently terminates in Sidi Bennour. A 60 kV/22 kV substation would be
constructed at the new terminal near Zemamra and about 50 km of 22 kV lines
would serve the four pumping stations.
7.        Existing hard surface roads would be reinforced to accommodate the
expected increase in heavy traffic during the sugar beet harvest season. About
21 km of new hard top road and 64 km of gravel roads would be constructed in
addition to farm roads. About 50 km of telephone lines would be constructed.
connecting pumping stations and CMV's with the subdivision offices in Zemamra.
Buildings and other facilities for the project authority include the subdivision
offices, workshop and housings in Zemamra, and three Development Centers (CMV's).
The existing agricultural research facilities at Jemie Sahim would be improved
through provision of buildings, animals and equipment. Six new milk collection
centers would improve bulk marketing of milk. Supporting services, extension,
and credit would be reinforced.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
8.        The rural environment would be promoted by provision of basic vil-
lage infrastructure. A total of 7 new centers would receive roads, public
lighting, domestic water supply and schools (Table 1).
9.        ORMVAD would be responsible for the irrigation development of the
subproject. Other institutions involved would be the Ministry of Public Works
through its Road Division and ONE, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry
of Public Health.
Description of Proiect Works
10. Irrigation Network
(a) Land Consolidation and Preparation. Land consolidation has been
completed on 8,500 ha and is presently underway in the remaining
area. Land preparation would include subsoiling to break hard
calcareous crusts and destoning on about 4,000 ha mostly located
in Zo sector. Farm roads (76 m/ha) with storm water collector
ditehes and vind breaks (106 m/ha) would complete land prep-
aration works.
(b) Canals. The existing main canal, constructed in 1959, has earth
embankments over most of its length and lining over 5.8 km where
it passes through permeable strata. The main canal starts at Km 17
at the outlet of the pressure tunnel connecting it to the headworks.
Widening and repair of the canal is completed up to Km 77. For
works on next 12.3 km, contracts for civil works have been let and
the project would only include supply and placing of automatic gates
for regulation with downstream control. The project would further
provide civil works including gates for the remaining 16.4 km serving
the Zemamra subdivision and the 6 km feeder canal supplying the Zo
pumping station.
(c) Pumping Stations. Four pumping stations of the following charac-
teristics would be constructed:
No. of          Q l/s          H             kW
Sector         Punps          per Pump         m           per Pump
Zo              8              470            55            355
Zi              6              470            60            400
Z2              6              340            56            286
Z3              5              340            54            280
Water would be pumped through a rotating filter to avoid floating
debris from entering the system.  On-line elevated storage tanks
would regulate fluctuations in pressure and demand. Automated
controls would activate pumps according to fluctuations in demand.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(d)  Pipe Distribution System.  A buried distribution network would
consist of 1,400 mm to 60 mm diameter pipes, concrete for the
larger diameters and asbestos cement for the smaller.  The aver-
age length of the pipe would be 27 m/ha. Each sector would have
its individual distribution system. Pipes would run parallel to
farm roads permitting easy access to hydrants. Typical layout
would be as follows:  4 m wide farm roads would divide into two
blocks a 15.6 ha irrigation unit to be served by one hydrant.
This hydrant, equipped with two fixed discharge outlets, would
therefore serve two separate blocks of 7.8 ha on each side of
the road. Each outlet would serve a continuous block with a
width along the road of 294 m and since hydrants would be placed
in the middle of a block the distance between hydrants would
also be 294 m. The distance between hydrants measured perpen-
dicular to the road would be 556 m.
(e)  Mobile Equipment.  An 18 x 18 m sprinkler pattern was selected
as being the most economic.  The net area of one irrigation parcel
(1/2 block) of 144 x 270 m was derived on the basis of allowable
pressure losses and standard pipe lengths of 6 m. The mobile
equipment would consist of a 252 m central 4" feeder line connected
to a hydrant outiet, with take-offs at 54 m intervals.  Three-inch
moving laterals of 153 m would operate simultaneously on each aide
of the feeder line. Each lateral would carry 8 sprinklers with an
individual discharge of 0.54 1/sec and nozzle pressure of 3 atmos-
pheres. During the peak month, irrigation would take place during
20 hours per day (2 positions at 10 hours) with an intensity of
6 mm/hour selected because of the low infiltration capacity of the
heavier soils. The irrigation interval would be 7.5 days.
(f) Power Supply. Power supply would be provided by about 50 km
of 60 kV line connecting the present terminal at Sidi Bennour
with a new substation near Zemamra.  From the substation, about
50 km of 22 kV lines would connect to the pumping stations.
(g) Drainage. No natural surface drainage exists in the project
area because the Doukkala Plain is separated from the ocean by
a 30-50 km wide band of fossil dunes superimposed on karstic
jurassic and cretaceous layers. Storm water collects in
karstic sinkholes called "dayaa" in which surface vater is
observed for a couple of days if 90 to 100 mm of rainfall occur
in a 15-day period. This happens about once every 12 years.
The storm water flows underground towards the ocean in the
direction of Safi. Since it is impossible to cross the dune
zone, drainage would be provided by guiding large open collector
drains (520,000 m3 excavation) towards two very large "dayas"
behind the first row of dunes (see Map 11855). Storm discharge
cominR from the south would be passed underneath the canal into
the main drains.  Design criteria for storm run-off correspond
to probable peak flows once in 10 years. For the irrigation
area drains were designed for a specific drainage of 0.62
1/sec/ha.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
11., Infrastructure
(a) Roads. A major national highway, RP8, from Casablanca to Agadir
via Safi passes through the area. About 108 km of asphalt roads
in the project area would have to be reinforced and widened to
6 m to accommodate the increase in heavy traffic during the
sugar beet harvest period; 21 km of new asphalt road and 64 km
of 4 m wide gravel roads would be provided (Table 2). Criteria 1/
for the establishment of different types of roads would be:
Estimated Aricultural Traffic                        Type of Road
More than 20,000 tons/year                           6 m asphalt
Between 6,000 and 20,000 tons/year                   4 m gravel
Less than 6,000 tons/year                            4 m dirt
(b)  Telephones.  About 50 km of telephone lines would be provided
to link the pumping stations and CMV's with the subdivision
headquarters in Zemamra.
(c)  Buidings for thePrject Authority.  New subdivisional head-
quarters would be constructed in Zemamra.  Three CMV's and six
milk collection centers would be constructed of a type described
in Table 1. The existing facilities of the agricultural experi-
ment station would be extended through provision of additional
buildings and equipment.
(d) Village Centers. The presently scattered population could only
be provided with some amenities if they could be grouped into
village centers. The project would provide for the creation of
seven such centers with paved roads, electricity, treated public
water supply and schools as indicated in Table 1.
January 9, 1976
1/   These criteria have heen established after a detailed study under the
Sebou II Project (Loan 1018).



ANNEX 7
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Typical Cost of CMV, Milk Collecting Center and Village Center
Item                                                              Cost
(DH)
CMV
Office                          200 m2                           80,000
Warehouse                       400 m2                          14o,ooo
Four Houses                     100 m2                          320,000
Asphalt PavementYL            1i,000 m2                          55,000
Water Connection to Existing Supply                              30,000
Electric Cormection to Existing Power Line                       25,000
Total for 1 CMV                                            650o.ooo
Milk Collecting Center
Building                         24 m2                           19,000
Two Milk Tanks @ 1,000 Liters                                   4ho,ooo
Transformer (22 kV/220 V) and Wiring                             14,000
Piping, Heating and Cooling                                      17,000
Water Connection                                                  5,000
Total 1 Center                                              95,000
Village Center (UREF)
Water Supply including Treatment and Elevated Storage           300,000
Electricity Supply Including 2 km of 22 kV line                 1 74,000
Pavement                      2,400 m2                          100,000
School (5 Classes)                                              45o,ooo
Total 1 Village Center                                   1i 02h.o00
/1  To protect against damage from concentrated movement of trucks,
tractors and cattle and to prevent inconvenience from excessive dust.
December 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUXKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Road Improvement Program
Reinforcement
Enlargement      of Existing
Road Number        Length              (New Pavement)       Pavement
km                       m                m
RP 8                 29                       1                6
RS 123               15                       1                -
RS 123               13                       3                3
RS 126                7                       3                3
CT 1305              10                       3                3
CT 1351-1307         25                       3                3
CT 1334               4                       3                3
CT 1352               5                       3                3
New Asphalt Road    21                        6
New Gravel Roads    64                        4
December 1975



AM'F X 8
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction and Activity Schedule
1975              1976               1977              1978               1979
Land Consolidation r
Main Canal                                           _
Pumping Stations                                                                         l
Power Supply                                     __=
Land Preparation                                                 -
Distribution Network                                                                                            -
Drainage Network
Mobile Equipment                                                                    -                           -
Project Buildings                                                -
Asphalt Roads                                                    -
Village Infrastructure                                                  _
Bilharzia Program
Tadla Extension Study
Vagetable Study
Consultants                                                                                                              Mi
Accumulated hectares
under irrigation                                                                   4,150             10,050            15,410
Sector No.                                                                          Z1                 zo              Z2 + Z3
WorId Bank-15243(R)



KINCD011 Or       O                                NOMC9C
00UXELA IIlUliCT10N 6803607
Ceat Estimas t
tec                                    local         o83m          Total                      Local        Forer i        Total                    e_
----    -- -- oo-- ----------                  -- ---- -------  o  O------     
N.t-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Civil -ork.
Cnal.                                         8,982        4,835         13,817                      2,315        1,246          3,561                     35
p.P i.g StatIons Civil  O_rk £2               1,921        1,035          2,956                        495          267            762                     35
Wat r Toer                                    5,200        2,800,         8,000                      1,340          722          2,062                     35
Und-rgrouod Pipe.                            49,495       26,652         76,147                     12,756        6,869         19,625                     35
Lard Preparatior                              3,220        3,220          6,440                        830          830          1,660                     50
Fani Ronds                                    1,967        1,9b6          3,935                        507          507          1,014                     50
Widbre.ks                                    2,054            0          2,054                        529            0            529                      0
-r.iele N0etrk                                5,990        5,990         11,980                      1,544        1,544          3,088                     50
Projeot Ovildiege                               469          253            722                        121           65            186                     35
Subtotal                                   79,298      46,753        126,051                     20,437       12,050          32,487
Frite Centin8ency                          22.383       13.549         35,932                      5.769        3.492          9.261
Total                                     101,681      60,302        161,983                      26,206      15,542          41,748                     37
Eouip enrt
Eleriro-aechaeîool /3                         4,604       10,742         15,346                      1,187        2,769          3,956                     70
Morbile  2prkîer.  £                          7,314       17,066         24,380                      1,885        4,398          6,283                     70
Hydr-ees I                                    2,431        5,673          8,104                        627        1,462          2,089                     70
Operarioo ard               Eqinieerein Equipeent3i  740   1.728         2.468                         191          445            636                     70
Sobtotel                                   15,089       35,209         50,298                     3,890         9,074        12,964
Prire Contir.enîy                           2.970        6.929          9.899                        765       1.786           2.551
Total                                      18.059      42,138          60,197                     4,655       10,660          15,515                     70
Poyr Nseteerk                                   4,168        6,252         10,420                      1,074        1,611          2,685                     60
Prire Coetingency                             187          279            466                         48           72            120
Trial                                       4,355        6,531         10,886                      1,122        1.683          2,805                     60
Slbtotl Irrigotire Net-erk                98,555      88,214         186,769                     25,401      22,735         48.136
Prire Cecig .ge..y                         25.540       20,757         46.297                      6,582       5.350          11.932
T-ol Nrrigai1o     t Seierrk             124,095      108,971        233,066                     31,983      28,085         60,068                     45
Aariorltoral HMe«raeni
CHV ard Re.earch Stetior Buildigs            2,705        1,458          4,163                        697          376          1,073                     35
ilk Crllertig Carter-                         222          411            633                         57          106            163                     65
Sobtiral                                    2,927        1,869         4,796                         754         482           1,236
Prire Cortiige..y                             491          370            861                        127           95            222
Total                                       3,418        2,239          5,657                        881          577          1,458                    40
E,îiepelnt aed Teirlea L3                       1,022        2,386          3,408                        263          615            878                     70
Frire Centing-ncy                             205          478            683                         53          123            176
Trtal                                       1,227        2,864          4,091                        316          738          1,054                    70
Aerirolt.r.l Credit                             9,749            0          9,749                      2,513            O          2,513                      0
Prire Contingency                           3.339            0          3.339                        861            0            861
Total                                      13,088            0        13,088                      3,374             0         3,374                       0
infrastrcture
Ronde                                        13,072       13,073         26,145                      3,369        3,369          6,738                     50
Teler r, enireioe                                67          100            167                         17           26             43                     60
Subtotal                                   13,139       13,173         26,312                      3,386        3,395          6,781
Prire Cortigenry                           3.062        3,062          6.124                        789          789          1,578
Total                                      16,201       16,235         32,436                     4,175        4,184          8,359                      50
Tillase irfraairoriore
Citer Supply £2                               1,515          816          2,331                        390          210            600                     35
tl-t.ririîy                                     540          811          1,351                        139          209            348                     60
Pave,e-t                                        388          389            777                        100          100            200                     50
Sîhoole                                       2,275        1,225          3,500                        586          316            902                     35
SObtita1                                    4,718        3,241          7,959                     1,215           835         2,050
Prire Coriiogerîy                           1J747        1,208          2.955                       450           309         _759
To-1î                                       6.465        4,449         10,914                     1,665          1,144        2,809                     41
Ad.ii.t-rati.o
irveroreni Engineering                        5,082            0          5,082                      1,310            0          1,310                     0
trial Cor 1 anes                                798            O            798                        206            O            206                     0
Eegi-eerirg C ea. ltota                       1,712        4,873          6,585                        441        1.256          1,697                    74
Tadla  eea.ibility Study                        416        1,184          1,600                        107          305            412                    74
Bilhereio Control Prograg                       806        1,104          1,910                        202          285            492                    73
Trgte.ble M.keneirg Sitdy                       277          788          1.065                         71          203            274                    74
sobttal                                    9,091        7,949         17,040                      2,342       2,049          4,391
PriCeeiirgeoi0                              2,059       1,785           3,844                        531          460            991
Total                                      11,150        9,734         20.884                      2,873        2.509          5,382                    47
Total In-1dia PFrite Cortieaenîiea           175,644      144,492        320,136                     45,267       37,237         82,504                    45
PFvalîrl Cerrineeeeie                          21,780       15,332         37.112                      5,613        3.952          9,565                    41
Frite Contiener                             5,657        3,505          9.162                      1,458          903          2,361
Tot-l Phycial Centinge..ilee               27,437       18,837        46,274                       7,071       4,855         11,926                     41
GRAN0  TOTAL                             203,081      163.329        366 410                     52.338                                                 45
Trtai Coviinoeriroe                        63,880       46,497        110,377                     16,464      11,581         28,445                     42
trial Prire Cooiîîg-nciie                 42,100       31,165         73.265                     10,851        8,029         18,880                     43
/I Tiice7aniiies due to rrording.
77  Fion nirg by USAIT
3 PFort fitoriog by EISAID,
Decenbet 1975



UINDO   OP N771050                                                                                  ANNEX 10
DO8XIALA IORIGATION PR8JECT
lobadolo o2 Exfondttorns
Total                   1973                  1976                   1977                   1978                   1979            Foaeig.
Iton                                     Fboriso     TOta        oso1 n     Total      Foralmn     Total      Forsion     Total     For-lso      Total     Fortion      Total.     Eoho   s
------------------- -------------------------------------Da  (O O -------------------------------------------   ------------            7.
rrilastioo nùtoonk
Civil Worko
Canais                                      4 835      13,817      1,275       3,644      2,285      6,529       1,275      3,644        *          -           -          -            35
Purotins lattiono Civil Wo-ks L             1,035       2,956        -           -          305         870        365      1,043         365      1,043        -          -            35
brrr Tog rs                                 2,800       8,000        -           -        1,400      4,000       1,400      4,000        -          -           -           -35
Todornoood Pipe.                           26,652      76,147        -           -        3,589     10,253       5,997     17,134       9,737     27,820       7,329     20,940         35
Ltnd Prep-ootioo                            3,220       6,440        -           -          644       1,288      2,174      4,347         402         805       -          -            50
Pati Roodo                                  1,968       3,935        -           -          530       1,060        903       1,806        535      1,069        -          -            50
windbr-aks                                       0      2,054        -           -            O         554          0         786          0         714       -           -            O
oroinaoo Neiwonk                            5,990      11,980        -           -          -          -           -          -         2,271      4.541       3,719      7,439         50
trojoot Ooiîdiags                             253         722        -           -          253         722        -          -          -       .  -           -          -            35
Sobootal                                 46,753    126,051       1.275       3,644      9,006     25,276      12,114     32,760      13,310     35,992      11,048    25,379
trios Cootingooty                        13.849      35.932          0           0        630       1.769      2.520      6.814       4.693     12.705       5.701     14,644
Total                                    60,302    161,983       1,275       3,644      9,636     27,045      14,634     39,574      10,000     48,697      16,749     43,023         37
Eîltro-,-oohsoiaol L                       10,742      15 346        -           -        2,995      4,278       3,787      5,410       2,160      3,086      IbOO       2,572         70
Mobil  Sp;iniklor LÀ                      17,066      24,30          -                     -          -         4,784       6,720      6 689      9,556       5,673       8,104        70
Hydroats /2                                 5 673       8,104        -           -        1,528      2,183       2,172      3,103       1,973      2,818        -          -            70
oporati.o  ood Hainonos Eqoipqtni L         1.728       2.468        -           -        1.398      1.997         330         471       -           -          -          -            70
Sobtotal                                 35,209      50,298        -           -        5,921      8,458      10,993     15,704      10,022     15,460       7,473     10,676
Prioe Contingrrny                         6.929       9.899        -           -          296         423      1.583       2,261      2.354      3.649       2.496      5.566
Total                                    42,138      60,197        -           -        6,217      8,881      12,576     17,965      13,376     19,109       9,969     14,242         70
Po-r NOorork                                   6,252     10,420      1,810       3,016      3,828       6,380        614       1.024       -           -          -           -           60
Ptioo  Cootiogeocy                          279         466          0           0        191         319         88         147
Total                                     6,531      10,866      1,810       3,016      4,019      6,699         702      1,171        -          -           -          -            60
Sobtotal Irrigation   etùvork            88,214    186,769       3,085       6,660     18,755     40,114      23,721     49,6U8      24,132     51,452      18,521     39,055
Prioo Coooîogo..y                        20.757      46,297          0           O      1.117       2.511      4,191       9,222      7.232     16.354       8,197     10.210
Total Irriatioo Netrk                  158,971    233,066       3,085      6,660      19,872     42,625      27,912     58,710      31,384     67,806      26,718     57,265         45
AOOlooltoOoI 0900.aooo
CttV sod Roaoroh Statioo Ooilditgo          1,458       4,163        -           -          855       2,442        350         999        253        722        -          -            35
M1ik Collsting Crotors                        411        633                            - - -         _           137         211        137         211        137         211        65
Sobtotal                                  1,869       4,796        -           -          855       2,442        487       1,210        390        933         137        211
Price Cootiogoooy                           370         861        .           -           60         171        101         252        138         329         71        109
Totol                                     2,239       5,657        -           -          915       2,613        588       1,462        528      1,262         208        320         40
tqulp=ent soi Vohiolos LZ                      2,386      3,408        -           -          -                      923       1,318      1,463       2,090       -           -           70
Prioe Cootoogooop                           478         683        -           -          -           -          133         190        345        493
Total                                     2,864       4.091        -           -          _           _        1,056       1,5O8      1,808      2,583        -          -            70
Aarîoolîonal tondit                                O      9,749         -          _            8         557          0       3,064          0       3,064          0       3,064         0
Prre- Continge=qy                             o       3,339        -           -            O          39          O         637          0      1,082           0      I.501
Total                                         0      13,088        -           -            O         596          0      3,701           0      4,146           0      4,645          0
ofrastrvqturs
Roodo                                      13,073      26,145        -           -        2,773       5,550      5,330      10,660      3,330      6,660       1 638      3,275         50
Tslecooooolnotloo                             100         167        -           -          100         167        -         -           _-        -                       -            60
Soltotol                                 13,173      26,312        -           -        2,875      5,717       5,330     10,660       3.330      6,660       1,636      3,275
Polos Contingenoy                         3.062       6.124        -           -          201        400       1.L08      2.217       1.175      2.351         578      L.156
Total                                    16,235      32,436        .           .        3,076       6,117      6,438      12,877      4,505      9,011       2,216      4,431
Villîso Iotoootoootoro
Wat-r SOoply                                  816       2.331        --                                 -          233         666        233        666         550      1,000         35
Electrioity                                   811       1,351        -           -          -                      232         386        232        386         347        579         60
Pa nent                                       389         777        -           -          -           -          111         222        111        222         167        333         50
Sohoola                                     1.225       3.500        -           -          -           -          350      1.000         525      1.0           350      1,000         35
Sb-total                                  3,241       7,959        -           -                                 9 _  926  2,274      1,101      2,774       1,214      2,912
Polar Cootingrooy                         1.208       2,955        _           -          _           _          193         473        389        979         626      1,503
Total                                     4,449      10,914        -           -          -           -        1,119      2,747       1,490      3,753       1,80       4,415         41
Ad.nnisorattoo
Govr,nt En0ias5riog                             O       3,082        -           974          0       1,027          0       1,027          0      1,027           0      1,027          0
Looat C oosltants                               O         798        -           -            O         266          0         266          0         266        -         -
Engin oriag Conoiîtsnts                     4,873       6,585        273         369      1,150       1,554      1,150      1,554       1,150      1,554       1,150      1,554         74
Toila toaibili ty Stody                     1,184       1,6800       -                      592         888        392         880        -         --                     -7
bilISsoia tontrol trgo_                     1,184       1.910                    -          522         920        194         338        194                               330         73
Vostahbls Makhtiog Stody                      788       1.065        -           -          7bS       1,065        *          -           -          -           -         -            74
Sobt-ral                                  7,949      17,040        273       1,343      3,052       5,632      1,936       3,977      1,344      3,177       1,344      2,911
Pniît  Cootiogsnoy                        1.785       3.844          0           0        214         394        403         827        474      1.121         694      1.502
Totol                                     9,734      20,884        273       1,343      3,266       6,026      2,339      4,804       1,818      4,298       2,038      4,413         47
Total Includtng Prios Contina nci-          144,492    320,136       3.358       8,003     27.129      57,977     39,452      85.809     41,533     92,859      33.020     75,489         45
tlyviaal Cootinosoioo                         15,332     37,112        413       1,050      3,343       7,428      4,372      11,840      4,150      9,613       3,054       7,181
trias Costtoasnoy                         3.505       9,162          0           0        215         520        829       1.943      1.321       3,188      1,140      3,511
Total Phystoal Conting.n_ijs             18,837      46,274        413       1,0»       3,538       7,948      5,201     13,783       5,471     12,801       4,194     10,692
GRAN0 TOTAL                             163.329    366,410       3,771       903       3687        65_        44653      9992        47.04    105,660       3214                      45
Total Ooaoiogsooioo                      46,497    113,377         413       1,050      5,150      11,463     11,330      27,601     15,244     35,510      14,360     34,753
Total Prios contiog-snios                31,165      73,265          0           0      1,807      4,035       6,958     15,761      11,094     25,897      11,306     27,572
tl   FiPtoniog by USAID
72    Poro Fin-in8 b USA0 D
Drorob.r 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRDGATION PROJECT
Procurement: Civil Works and Equipnent
(Procured through ICB)
Item                                                         US$ million
First Phase Enlargement Main Canal                              2.5
Second Phase Enlargement Main Canal                             0 5
Construction Feeder Canal                                       0.8
First Phase Buried  Pipe Network                                7.9
Second Phase  Buried Pipe Network                              12.8
Collector Drains and Farm Roads                                 5.7
Land Preparation                                                3.1
Electro-Mechanical Equipment for One Pumping Station            0.8
Transformer for One Pumping Station                             0.4
Four High Storage Reservoirs                                    2.3
Power Lines and One Substation                                  2.8
Rehabilitation and Construction of Classified Roads             8.4
4E .0
December 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Machinery and Vehicles to be Procured
Type                                                      Number       Unit Cost       Total Cost
(DH)          (DH'OO)
0peration and Maintenance
(Subdivision and Headguarters)
Graders /1                                               2          50(),000           1,000
Hydraulic Excavator/L                                    1          500,000              500
Telescopic Crane (Truck Mlounted)L!                      1          300,000              300
Tractor with Tank Wagon.t-'                              2           60,000              120
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles                                   5           50,000              250
Small Cars                                               5           12,000               60
Car                                                      1           15,000               1S
Light Motorcycles                                       20             1,400              28
Workshop Equipment                                                  100,000              100
Total Operation and Maintenance Equipment                                        2,373
CMV' s
Light Crawler Tractors/L                                 6          200,000            1,200
Small Cars                                               9           12,000              108
4-Wheel Drive Vebicle                                    3           50,000              150
Wheel TractorsLL                                        18           45,000              dlO
Light Motorcycles                                       30             1,400              42
Agricultural Equipment                                  24            15,000             560
Total Equipment for 3 CMV's                                                      2,670
Artificial Insemination
Small Cars                                               5           12,000              f e
Total Artificial Insemination                                                       60
Research Station
Truck, 6 tons                                            1           60,000               60
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                                    1           50,000              50
Small Cars                                               3           12,000              36
Car                                                      1           15,000               15
Experimental Equipment                                              386,0oo              386
Total Research Station                                                             547
GRAND TOTAL                                                                      52650
,'1   Financed by USAID.
December 1975



ANNEX ll
Table 3
KINGDOM OF HOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Items Financed by USAID
USAID          USAID
Item                             Total Cost        Financing      Financing
(DH'OOO)            %S  million)
Electro-mechanical Equipment
for 3 Pumping Stations            11i,o68            70             2.0
Mobile Sprinkler Equipment         24,380             70             4.4
Hydrants                            8,1o4            70             1.5
Operation and Maintenance
Equipment                          1,997             70             0.3
CMV Equipment                       2,090             70             0.4
Civil Works for
4 Pumping Stations                 2,956             75             o.6
Village Water Supply                2,331             75             0.4
Total Basic Cost                 52,926                            9.6
Physical Contingencies              5,558                            1.0
Price Contingencies                13 ,074                           2.4
TOTAL USAID FINANCING            71 ,558                          13.0
December 1975



ANNEX 12
INGIDCM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRI3ATION PROJECT
Disbursements of Bank Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year                                Cumulative Disbursements
-and Quarter                                     at End of Quarter
(US$ million)
1976
September 30, 1975                                       o
December 31, 1975                                        0
March 31, 1976                                           0
June 30, 1976                                            0.5
1977
September 30, 1976                                       1.0
December 31, 1976                                        2.0
March 31, 1977                                           3.0
June 30, 1977                                            4.0
1978
September 30, 1977                                       5.0
December 31, 1977                                        6.0
March 31, 1978                                           7.0
June 30, 1978                                            8.0
1979
September 30, 1978                                       9.0
December 31, 1978                                       11.0
March 31, 1979                                          13.0
June 30, 1979                                           15.(
1980
September 30,1979                                       17.()
December 31, 1979                                       19.0
March 31, 1980                                          21.0
June 30, 1980                                           23.0
1981
September 30, 1980                                      26.0
December 31, 1980                                       29.0
March 31, 1981                                          30.0
December 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Terms of Reference
Consultants
A.   Dechra el Oued Feasibility PjfLZ
1.        Government considers to construct a multipurpose dam on the Oum
Er R'Bia at Dechra el Oued. Preliminary investigations of foundations and
hydrology have been conducted by the Water Resources Division of MTPC.
2.        Terms of Reference for the consultants would be:
General
(a) Determine feasibility of constructing a dam at Dechra el Oued
for any combination of the following purposes:
(i) generation of electric power;
(ii) supply of domestic and industrial water;
(iii) supply of irrigation water;
(iv) flood control.
(b)  Compare costs and benefits of alternative solutions to each
of the functions of the dam and determine whether the dam
provides the least cost solution.
(c) In case the Dechra el Oued dam provides the optimum combina-
tion of net benefits, provide an equitable allocation of
costs to its various purposes and optimal timing of con-
struction.
Specific Terms
(a) Review geotechnical reports on foundation conditions.
(b) Prepare a preliminary design of the dam accurate enough for
cost estimating purposes.
(c) Investigate suitability and location of construction materials.
(d) Draft reservoir operating guidelines after establishing prior-
ities among possible conflicting requirements between the
various purposes.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(e) Estimate the rate of siltation and useful life of the pro-
posed reservoir, including data obtained through actual
measurement of siltation in other reservoirs in the Oum
Er R'Bia catchment.
(f) Consider benefits from the Dechra el Oued dam in the frame-
work of the Oum Er R'Bia masterplan and of the major infra-
structure schemes established and under construction.
(g) Evaluate quantitative and qualitative data obtained from
new test wells and pumping tests and the recently completed
Beni Amir groundwater model, to conclude groundwater potential
for irrigation.
(h) Evaluate costs of conveying irrigation water in view of
limited capacity of the siphon in the Beni Amir main canal.
(i)  Review medium and long term national power requirements and
determine whether seasonal fluctuations in available power
from the Dechra el Oued dam will fit these requirements.
(j)  Review medium and long term industrial and domestic vater
demands taking into account planned industrial expansion along
the coast south of Casablanca.
B.   Design and Supervision of Construction
3.        To reinforce ORMVAD's engineering staff, a firm of consulting en-
gineers would be charged with overall technical responsibility for project
design and supervision of construction. The consultants would be present
throughout the entire construction period. Starting their work in October
1975, a total of 21.25 man years would be involved.  The following type of
personnel would be required:
1    Irrigation engineer
1    Electrical engineer
1    Chief construction engineer
1    Senior technician pipe installation
1    Senior technical and civil construction
Terms of Reference for the engineering consultants would be to:
(a) prepare final design;
(b) prepare technical specifications and contract documents;
(c)  assist ORMVAD in evaluation of bids and supervision of
construction;
(d) prepare construction drawings;



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(e)  check layout of works, approve contractor's work schedule,
verify work performed each month and certify payments due;
(f) prepare final design of electro-mechanical equipment, high
storage reservoirs, pressure activated switchgear, overload
protection; testing, adjustment and start-up of installed
equipment; specification of manufacturers' warranty and
suppliers' after sales service;
(g)  assist in procurement procedures under international com-
petitive bidding for relevant equipment such as mobile
sprinkler equipment; and
(h) assist ORMVAD in start-up of the central workshop and train-
ing of maintenance personnel; prepare regular maintenance
schedules.
January 9, 1976



ANNEX 13
Table 1
KINGDOIM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Foreign Consultants and Studies
Man/months  Unit Rate   Total
(U S$/month)  (US$)
Foreign Engineering Consultants in Project Headguarters
Irrigation Engineer                          51        7,300       371,000
Chief Construction Engineer                  51         7,000      357,000
Electrical Engineer                          51         7,000      357,000
Senior Technician Pipe Installation          51         6,000      306,000
Senior Technician Civil Construction         51        6,000       306,000
1,697,000
Dechra el Oued Study
Civil Engineer                                14        7,400      104,000
Geohydrologist                                10        7,000       70,000
Electrical Engineer                           10        7,000       70,000
Agronomist                                    12        7,000       84,000
Economist                                     12        7,000       84,000
412,000
Vegetable Marketing Study
Marketing Specialist                           8        8,000       64,000
Horticulturist                              6         7,000       42,000
Processing Specialist                       6         7,000       42,000
Extension Specialist                          6         7,000       42,000
Economist                                     6         7,000       42,000
Agronomist                                     6        7,000       42,000
274,000
December 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Marketing
General
1.        Commodities produced under the project offer no marketing difficul-
ties. The pattern of production and marketing at full development would of fer
two important changes: (a) a shift towards increased production of industrial
crops and vegetables, and (b) increased production of milk. The increased
production of cereals, sugar beet and milk would be almed at reducing the
country's current dependence on imported produce, while production of indus-
trial tomatoes and cotton vill be primarily aimed at the export market.
Cereals
2.        Moroccan trade statistics reflect important annual fluctuations due
to climatic factors and a growing cereal deficit resulting from a rapid growth
cf population and a relatively slow growing agricultural sector. The trend
is quite marked and shown below:
All Cereals                    1947/8-1956/7    1957/8-1966/7   1966/7-1969/70
(tons/annum)
Exports                             514,000           181,000          79,000
Imports                              60,000           317,000        561,000
Imports as % of Exports                12%              175%            1145%
3.        Morocco is self sufficient in hard wheat but imported 968,000 tons
of soft wheat in 1973/74 to supplement the domestic consumption of 2.8 mil-
lion tons (Table 1). In recent years maize deficit has been increasing; in
1973/74, 32,000 tons out of a domestic consumption of 420,000 tons was im-
ported. Projections made by Cereals Trade Office (ONICL) anticipate a wheat
deficit of more than 1 million tons with self sufficiency in maize production
for 1980.  The incremental production of wheat and maize at full development
is summarized in Table 2.  Total increases would be small in relation to total
domestic consumption and would contribute to a reduced reliance on imported
cereals.
4.        The state sets support prices for wheat and maize.  The minimum
price for soft wheat is currently DU/ton 600, for hard wheat, DH/ton 630,
and for maize DH/ton 450.  Farmers are free to sell to the local market.
During harvesting time prices drop below intervention levels, and farmers



ANNEX 14
Page 2
prefer to sell to the Government's supported cereals agency (SCAM). A sur-
vey conducted by ORMVAD shows last agricultural campaign free market prices
up to 50% above the intervention level. Therefore a financial price of
DHIton 700 for wheat (weighted average of hard and soft wheat) and DH/ton
550 for maize have been used. Economic prices have been calculated on the
bas4s of IBRD projected prices for wheat and maize in 1980, expressed in
constant 1975 dollars and amount to DH/ton 700 and DH/ton 524 for wheat
and maize respectively.
Sget
5.        Despite recent increases in domestic production of sugar beet,
Morocco imports increasingly larger amounts of sugar to meet domestic needs.
In 1973/74 about 50% of the domestic consumption of processed sugar were
imported (Table 1). Government's projections based on expected per capita
consumption of 32 kgs per annum, indicate a national consumption of about
800,000-850,000 tons of sugar by 1990. The increase in production in both
perimeters would account for about 6% of the 1974 consumption level and lesa
than 3% of the expected consumption level in 1990. No marketing difficulties
are anticipated on the national level.
6.        The existing sugar factory in Sidi Bennour is currently expanding
its capacity of 2,700 ton/day to 4,000 ton/day by 1977 (Table 3). Additional
capacity would be required by 1982 (Table 4). Government's plans include a
factory in the area and plant would be justified as part of the second phase
project in the Thnine Rharbia perimeter.
7.        Farmgate prices are fixed bv the government and vary with suzar
content of the beet: DH/t 57 for a sugar content of 11% and D1/t 150 for
24%. The price for an average 17% concentration is DH/t 99.6. Since farmers
have no alternative but to sell to local sugar plants government prices have
been used for the financial analysis.
8.        Economic prices have been calculated on the basis of IBRD projec-
tions, allowine for transport and processing costs. The resulting economic
price for sugar beet would be DH/t 140.
Cotton
9.        Cotton production will consist exclusivelv of long staDle cotton
for export.
10.       After a record harvest of 29,936 tons in 1965 total Moroccan cot-
ton production declined in the late 1960's and gradually recovered in recent
vears.  This decline was due to growing competition from sugar beet. irreg-
ularity in pavments and inadequate parasite control. It is forecasted that
for the current vear some 25,000 to 28,000 tons of seed cotton would be pro-
duced.  It is estimated that programs for irrigation infrastructure (Tadla,
Gharb, noukkala), increased government incentives (higher prices and better
pavment systeirs) and inclusion of cotton in the rotation as part of the sugar
development plan. would rise seed cotton production to a total of 55,000 tons
in 1985. Of this about 60% would be for the domestic industrv.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
il.       Cotton is exclusively marketed by the Moroccan Marketing Company
for Agricultural Products (COMAPRA). COMAPRA was established in 1962 as a
limited liability corporation with the state as a majoritv stockholder.  It
has responsibility for the purchasing, transportation, warehousing, ginninR
and processing of raw cotton. Raw cotton is delivered to COMAPRA managed
mills, where loans outstanding to the farmer as part of ORMVAD's integrated
cropping scheme are deducted (Annex 6).  Late paynent often forced the farmer
to sell on the local market at a lower price. The Government has improved
procedures, producers are paid upon delivery to the factory with debts
deducted.
12.       The Government Export Office (OOE) has monopoly over export of cot-
ton. Total production of seed cotton in 1973 was estimated at 18,800 tons of
which only 7% in the Doukkala (Table 5). Exports in 1973 were 7,800 tons of
cotton lint (Table 5).
13.       Prices for long staple cotton are more stable than for short staple.
With the rapid decline in world prices for short staple cotton, the premium on
long staple has increased from a historic level of around 70% to over 140%.
Price of long staple are dependent on decisions of the two main producer coun-
tries, Egypt and Sudan. It is expected the historic relationship between
short and long staple will be restored. Economic prices used in project
analysis are based on IBRD projections for Mexican short and adjusted for a
70% premium.
14.       Actual farmgate prices are fixed bv the government depending on
quality and varv from US$387 per ton to US$493 per ton of seed cotton.
15.       The increase in production is substantial.  However existing pro-
cessing facilities of 5,000 tons per year are adequate. Cotton production
in the already irrigated areas would increase from 1,300 tons to 2,500 tons
in 1985, and incremental production in the project area would be 2.000 tons
of seed cotton.
Industrial Tomatoes
16.       In 1974 the equivalent of approximatelv 110,000 tons of fresh tomatoes
were processed in Morocco of which 17,000 tons equivalent was consumed locally
(Table 6). The project would increase production of industrial tomatoes by
54,400 tons. Currently only a small and outdated processing plant exists in
El Jadida, and a further plant with a 20,000 tons fresh tomatoes capacity is
under construction in Azemour. Private entrepreneurs have expressed interest
to the Government and the Bank in setting up a tomato processing plant.
Credit for establishing processing industries are available from BNDE.
Project production would be transformed into tomato paste and exported.
Current Moroccan exports represent about 2 and 3 percent of the total
Western European and North American consurmption respectively and a neg-
ligible percentage of the estimated world production of over 1.5 million
tons. Market prospects are good. Italv has traditionally been the biggest
supplier of tomato paste in the Euronean market, followed bv Portugal. There
are inherent weaknesses in the industrv in botlh cotintries  Italv is facing,



ANNEX 14
Page 4
difficulties with rising costs of labor and raw material while Portugal has
been forced to curtail the area devoted to tomato production because of over-
cultivation and increasing labor problems. Similarly USA has reduced the area
cultivated for industrial tomatoes. Demand for tomato paste has been growing.
Given the proximity to the European market and its ties with France, Morocco
would be in a position to take advantage of the expected growth and structural
change in the world market. Given the fairly small market share of Morocco
and its already developed export trade, no difficulties in marketing of paste
are foreseen.
17.       Tomato paste prices increased from about US$350 per ton in 1972 to
US$700 per ton in the current year. Financial and economic prices are assumed
to be equal and have been calculated on the basis of current market prices for
tomato paste adjusted for transportation and processing costs.
Livestock Produce
18.       In 1973 Morocco produced about 540 million liters of cow milk (Table
7). Of these onlv 12% reached the processing factories, a further 8% was
marketed in the traditional way, either through the souk or street milk
vendors, and the remainder consumed at the source of production.  In the same
year Morocco imported 190 million liters of milk equivalent in dairy products.
Projections, for the rural and urban sectors (Table 7) indicate a growing
deficit in dairy produce unless the annual growth in production reaches 8% for
the period 1973-1980 and 5% for 1973-85. This is substantial In comparison
to past performance of the sector.
19.       An important element in the country's dependence on milk imports has
been the inability to offer the producer a reliable outlet for his production
throughout the year. Only recently and under Government's guidance farmers
grouped into cooperative to operate milk collecting centers. Such milk col-
lecting centers have been extremely successful in the Doukkala where large
quantities of milk previously consumed locally are now marketed.
20.       The number, capacity, and degree of utilization of the major dairy
factories show that inspite of relatively low levels of overall utilization
skimmed milk was thrown away during the period of maximum production at a
rate of several thousand liters a day. Currently the bulk of milk received
by dairies is sold pasteurized. There is a need to shift towards products
with a long shelf life. The establishment of a plant in Sidi Bennour special-
izing in the production of milk powder will be helpful (para 23).
21.       The price of milk to the producer is about DH/0.95 ranging from a
low of DH/1 0.8 in periods of high production to DH/1 1.05 in the period of
lowest production. This price includes a variable government subsidy, the
non-subsidized price being DH/1 0.67.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
22.       In Doukkala production of presently irrigated areas was 14,000 l/d
in 1974, and is expected to increase by 7-8% p.a. An average of 13,000 l/d
was collected through 12 existing milk collecting centers. With a total capa-
city of 37,000 l/d. (Table 8) Further 8 centers would become operational in
the current year increasing total capacity to 60,000 1/d. In addition 12
centers would be provided, through the project, for the Zemamra sector. The
project would increase production by 49,000 l/d at full development. Thus
total production in the Doukkala region is expected to reach about 145,000
l/d by the year 2,000 1/.
23.       In the past all milk has been transported to Casablanca for pro-
cessing. A decision has been taken to construct a dairv plant at Sidi Bennour
wtth a capacity of 70,000 1/d. Contracts have been awarded. With the expan-
sion of the Centrale Laitiere Casablanca and the construction of the plant at
Sidi Bennour marketing facilities would be adequate.
24.       Production of meat is expected to increase by 2,700 tons (live
weight) in Doukkala representing lesa than one percent of domestic supply of
beef. Market channels are through traditional souks as well as wholesale and
retail butchers.  Municipal slaughterhouses in Casablanca and in the project
area are sufficient for project needs. Economic prices have been calculated
by adjusting IBRD projected 1980 prices for beef. Financial and economic
prices are assumed to be equal.
Other
25.       Production of beans is expected to decline with the increased area
devoted to the cultivation of more profitable crops. Beans have been consumed
locally. The decline in production will not pose difficulties since it is
likely to be a natural shift in consumption from beans towards more expensive
and nutritious food as incomes rise in the area.
26.       Table 10 summarizes economic and financial prices used in prolect
analysis.
January 9, 1976
1/ Existing irrigated area, project area, and adjacent rainfed area.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
National Production and Consumption of Major Crops 1971 -1974
Crop                         1971-1972                        1972-1973                        1973-1974
Production   Imports  Exports   Production   Import  Exports   Production   Imports  Exports
--------------------------------_______ '000O tons) --__________________________________________
Wheat                 2,161       574        -        1,57h        469        _        1,853        968
Ma ze                   368         10       -          217         20        -          390          33
Suvar beet '1         1 ,677      210                 1 ,293       231        -        1 ,944       269
/1 Sugar
Decemnber 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production
% of National
Crop                             Production               Consumption
tons
.Wheat                              9,480                      1%
Maize                               8,725                       2%
Sugar beet                        130,500                      4%
Cotton                              2,040                     11%
Milk                               17,890                       2%
meat (liveweight)                   2,680                       3%
Olives                                _                         _
,/
Tomatoes                           54,400                     49%
Beans
/1 Domestic production.
December 1975



KINGDOM OF PlOd.OCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PRO<JECT
Processing Capacity and Utilization
Without Project                             With Project
No. of     Processing                       No. of      Processing
Plants      Capacity       Production       Plants       Capacity       Production
----------tons -----------                  ----------tons-----------
Doukkala
Cotton                     1            5,000           1,240          1            5,000           4,500
Sugar beet                 1          243,000         243,000           2         700,000         418,000
Milk                       _             _               -              1          70,000 1/d
Industrial Tomatoes        -             _                             3           90,000          87,700
cr 1
Dec ember 197$



ANNA 14
Table h
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKAM IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sugar Beet Production and Processing Capacity in Doukkala
Existing
Year              Project Area         Irrigated Area             'Total
----------------------- tons ------__-----------------
Production
1975                                     261,000               261,000
1976                                     279,000               279,000
1977                                     288,000               288,000
1978                 5,500               288,000               293,500
1979                20,900               288,000               308,900
1980                28,700               288,000               316,700
1981               58,440                288,000               346,44o
1982                78,800               288,000               366,800
1983                98,400               288,000               386,400
1984               116,100               288,000               404,100
1985               124,600               288,000               412,600
1986               126,000               288,000               414,000
1987               130,000               288,000               418,000
1988               130,500               288,000               418,500
Existing Capacity                 243,000
Excpansion in Process             117,000
Total Future Capacity           360:000
December 1975



KINGDOM OF MOiIOCCO
fLOUALA. IRiIGATION PROJECT
Moroccan Production of Seed Cotton and Exports of Lint Cotton 1971-1974
Production                                               World
(seed)                                  orts       Production -
Year             Tadla        Doukkala         Other           Total         (Lint)          (Lint)
--------------------------------------------tons -------~----------------------------
1971           19,155          1,544          3,421          24,120          4,525           155,214
1972           21,826          1,290          3,242          26,358           7,710          181,878
1973           14,362            988          2,468          17,818           7,818          182,312
1974            13,500         1,242          4,101          18,843          n.a.
/1 Extra long staple 1-3/8t" and over, cotton advisory board.
December 1975
Ig 



ANIEX 14
Table 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALk IRRIGATION PROJECT
Production and Exports of Tomato Products 1974
Tomato
Tons       US$/ton    Esuivalent
Exports
Tomato Juice                              448         137            750
Preserve                                1,4;8         376          1,750
Concentrate                             8,378         756         52,800
Powder                                  2,013       2,916         38,000
Total of Exports                     12,267                    93,300
Total Domestic Consumption            5,233                     17,000
GRAND TOTAL PRODUCTION               17.500                   110,300
December 1975



DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Pro.iected National ConSumption and Production of Dairy Produce 1973-1985
1973                              1980                               1985
Item                  Rural     Urban      Total i   Rural        Urban      Total        Rural       Urban      Total
-('------------------ =-7t000 tonsof Freshi -Mla  Equiv-IEnt) -------- ----------------------
Population             10.3       6.0        16.3       11.6        8.6         20.2        12.6       10.9       23.5
Milk
Fresh               256.o      42.4      298.4       290.0                   290.0       283.0         -       283.0
Pasteurized                    66.0       66.0         -        125.0         125.0        -        201.0      201.0
Concentrate           _        38.4        38.4        -           -            _                      -          -
Powder                -        12.2        12.2       61.o      152.0        216.0       160.0      206.0      366.0
Cheese                 24.7      24.0       48.7        34.0       42.0         76.0        43.0       61.o      104.0
Butter                179.5     126.0      305.5       2h7.0      220-0        467.0       310.0      322-0      632.0
Total Demand          460.2     309.0       769.2      635.-0     539.0      1,174.0       796.0      790.0    1,586.0'
Total Supply                               53B.0                                           -
Imports                                    190.0
% Imported                                  25.0
/1  Figures for total demand have been calculated on the basis of consumption norms and do not correspond
exactly with actual demardin 1973, which equalled 528 million liters.
/2  Calculated on the basis of the following norms:  kg/year/head
Rural     Urban                                                                                   H
Milk                                              F4.9 Per capita consumption growth  - 2.9% p.a.                CD
Cheese          2.4       4.0                     Growth in milk production      =  3.9% p.a.
Butter          0.0       1.0
December 1975



KINGDQM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRItQTION PROJECT
Cooperative Milk Collection Centers in the Doukkala Perimeter 1970-1974
Total Collection            Peak Collection/
No. of                                                                   Capacity
Year          Cooperatives            '000/lit            lit/day          lit/day          lit/day
1970                 6                2,200,000            6,027            9,300           21,300
1971                 7                2,100,000            5,753            8,900           25,700
1972                10                3,o4o,696            8,331           12,900           31,900
1973                10                4,111,864           11,265           17,500           31,900
1974                12                4,703,857           12,887           20,000           37,300
1975 /2
/1 Estimates.
/2  Not available.
December 1975
CD b
Ct



ANNEX 1à
Tabl-e 
KINGDOQ  OF MOROCCO
DOUKIALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic and Financial Prices
Item                                  Financial                  Economic
-(H/ton)------      -
Wheat
Hardl                                    630  )
675
Soft                                    600)
Sugar beet/2                                96                       iho
Cotton (Seed)                            2,100                     2,460
Maize                                      450                        497
Lucerne                                    350                       350
Industrial Tomatoes                        120                       116
Miilk                                      950                       810
Meat (Liveweight)                        3,500                     4,454
Vegetables
Niora                                    300                       300
Beans                                   900                        900
Olives                                   i,o44                     1,044
Transport Costs
Zemamra/Casablanca                       32.2 DH/ton
NOTE:  Conversions are made at a rate of DH  3.88   US$1.
/1  Based on IBRD Conmodity Forecasts.
/2 17% Sugar content.
December 1975



ANNEX 15
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1.        Four models of farm budgets are analyzed in Table 1. Tables 2 to 5
give detailed information on different farm types.  Farm types 1, 2, 3, and
4 represent 15%, 35%, 30% and 20% respectively of the project area. Net farm
income at full development would increase by about 275%, 371%, 322%, and 513%
in type 1, 2, 3, and 4 farms.  Average per capita income would raise from
$109 to $485. Average yields and production costs are shown in Table 6.
2.        The functional life of the first sprinkler equipment is estimated
at 7 years, replacement as necessary and maintenance of the equipment is
estimated at about DH 130 per hectare, of which about DH 95 would be depre-
ciation and the remainder routine repair.
3.        Interest or working capital has been calculated under the current
credit regulations which require each borrower to contribute from his own
resources 30% to 70% towards the total working capital. A typical farmer is
assumed to contribute from his own resources 50% of his working capital. There-
fore, interest has been computed at 6% for one year for 50% of the estimated
working capital for each model and situation (with and without project).
4.        Hired labor is valued at DH 10 per day, tax deductions are made on
the basis of the existing regulations.  The first DH 1,400 are exempted.  A
tax of 8% is applied to the fiscal income within income bracket DH 1,401-6000,
12% to the fiscal income in the DH 12,000-24,000 bracket (and 15% if the fis-
cal income is between DH 2,400 and 48,000.
5.        Water charges where computed a5cording to prevailing legislation.
(paras 5.21 and 5.22) and amount to DH/m 0.147. In addition 25 ha farms would
pay a betterment levv of DHf/ha 1,5no, over a period of 20 years (first 3 years
grace) at 4% interest.
January 9, 1976



ANIX 15
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                       Table 1
DOUlhLA IRRIGATION TROJECT
Su*.1ry Fara Budgets
Item                                                                                                           Doukkabl
Tye    - 2 ha            TyeI-ha                       III - 5 ha           TYDeIV -25ha
With      Without         With     Without           ith     Without         With       Without
Project    Project        Projet   ProJect         Project   Project         ProJect    Project
----------------------------------DR-------------------------------------------------------
Gross Value of Production
Crop Production
Wheat                                                           1,050      1,050         5,250      2,100          3,570     2,100         26,2s0      lo,6oo
Maize 1                                                           -           88            -         220            -         220            -         1,000
Maize 2                                                           525        -           2,409        -              897       -           12,031         -
Sugar beet                                                        -         -            5,400        -           3,586        -           27,000
Cctton                                                          1,575        -             -          -           2,625        -              --
Tomatoes                                                        2,320        -             -          -            3,851       -
Beans                                                             -         180            -          360            -         360            -         1,800
Vegetables (Niora)
Alfalfa                                                           -          -                L       -                        _              _f 
Berseem                                                           -          --
Barley Fodder
Subtotal                                                  5,470      1,318         13,059     2,680         14,529      2,680         65,281     13,400
Livestock Production
Milk                                                            2,926                    6,604                     4,400                   33,020
Culled Cows                                                       539                    1,239                       980                    6,195
Heifer                                                            616                    2,022                     1,600                   10,010
Steers                                                            673                    2,654                    2,100                    13,270
Subtotal     ,4,754                                                    778         12,519     1,353          9,080      1,353         62,49s      6,76s
Total Gross Value
of Production                                           10 224      2L096          258                     2  609      4.033       127776       20165
Variable Cost of Production
Physical Inputs                                                   1,774        307         3,850        648          4,044       648         19,253       4,246
Mechanical Operations                                               367        3114           979       650            944        6so         4,892       3,241
Hired Labor                                                         -          -             498        -            1,022       -           20,925       4,188
Interest on Working Capital                                          66         10           160      --               180        39          1.352         350
Total Variable Cost
of Production                                            2,207        631         5s487      1              6,190      1.337         46 422     12,025
Fixed Costs and Replacement
Maintenance anc Replacement
Mobile Sprinkler Equipsment                                       260        -             6so                       650                    3,250
Maintenance Livestock Building                                     20         10             30        15             30        15            120          60
Water Charge                                                      2,499                    6,248        -            4,998                    3,305
Total Fixed Costs
and Replacemsent                                         2,779         10      6,928             15         5,678         15                        60
Farm Income Before Tax                                              5,236      1,455        13,163      2,937         11,741     2,937         44,974       8,080
Taxes on Fars Income                                                  264        128            538       2s6            515       2s6          3,373       1,298
Farm Income After Tax                                               4,972      1.327        12 625      2681               6     2,681         41,60        6,7ff2
Increase in Farm Income After Tax                                         275%                      371%                     322%                     513%
/l Fed to animal.
December 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget -  Farm Type I -  2 ha
Gross          Production              Net
Item                               Area                            Production  Production Value            Cost       Production Value
(ha)                              (ton)             (DH)               (DH)Ll             (DH)
Without Project
Wheat                             1.5                                1.5              1,050                510
Maize 1                           0.2                                0.16                88                 56
Beans                             0.2                                0.16               180                 55
Livestock                          -                                   -                778                  -
Total                           1.9                                                 2,096                621              1,475
With Project
Wheat                             0.5                                1.5              1,050                345
Maize 2                           0.4                                 1.0               525                200
Cotton                            0.5                                0.75             1,575                428
Tomatoes                          0.5                               20.0              2,320                625
Alfalfa                           0.5                               30.0 12                 /3             250
Barley Fodder                     0.3                                6.0 /2                  3              48
Milk                               -                                 3.08             2,926                  -
Culled Cows                        -                                   - /4             539                  -
Heifers                            -                                   - 7              616                 -
Steers (1-2 years)                 -                                   -/6              673                  -
Breeding fees                      -                                   -                 -                  67
Minerals                                                                                  -                 50
Veterinarv                         -                                                                       100
Total                           2.7                                                10.22               2,113             7,741
/l  Including hired labor only.                                                                                                                    c Z
/2  Green matter.                                                                                                                                   -Z
LI  Fed to livestock.                                                                                                                                  
j   One cow every 2-3 years.                                                                                                                          b
15  One every 5 years.
/6  One every 3 years.
December 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget - Farm Type II- 5 ha
Gross         Production             Net
Item                              Area                          Production  Production Value          Cost      Production Value
(ha)                           (ton)             (DH)             (DH) /1            (DR)
Without Pro1ect
Wheat                           3.0                               3.0             2,100             1,020
Maize 1                         0.5                               0.4               220               140
Beans                           0.5                               0.4               360               138
Livestock                                                          - -            1.353               -
Total                         4.0                                               4 033             1 298             2,735
With Project
Wheat                           2.5                               7.5             5,250             1,800
Maize 2                          1.75                             4.38            2,409               998
Sugar beet                      1.25                             56,2             5,400             1,275
Alfalfa /2                       1.25                            75.0 _             -  /3             775
Milk                                                              6.952           6,604               -
Culled Cows                                                        - ,4           1,239               _
Heifers                                                            - /5           2,022               -
Steers                                                             - /6           2,654               -
Breeding Fees                     _                                                                   148
Minerals                                                                                              110
Veterinary                                                                                            221
Total                         6.75                                             25,578             5.327            20,251
/l  Including hired labor only.
/2  Green matter.
75  Fed to livestock.
/4  0.8 cows per year.
/5  0.6 heifers per year.
/6  1.5 steers per year.
December 1975



KINGDQOMO  MORQDCO
DOUNKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget- Farm Type III -  5 ha
Item                                                                                   Gross               Production                 Net
Area                          Production       Production Value               Cost          Production Value
(ha)                            (ton)                  (DH)                  (DH) /L                (Dit)
Without Project
Wheat                         3.0                                3.0                  2,100                  1,020
Maize 1                       0.5                                0.4                    220                    140
Beans                         0.5                                0.4                    360                   138
Livestock                      -                                  -                   1,353
Total                       4.0                                                    4,033                  1,298                  2,735
With Pro iect
Wheat                         1.70                               5.10                 3,570                  1,275
Maize 2                       0.65                               1.63                   897                   390
Sugar beet                    0.83                              37.35                 3,586                   946
Cotton                        0.83                               1.25                 2,625                   843
Tomatoes                      0.83                              33.20                 3,851                  1,286
Alfalfa                       0.83                              49.80 /2                -   ]3                 606
Berseem                       0.83                              20.75 72                -   /3                 282
Milk                           -                                 4.63 A               4,400                    -
Culled Cows                    -                                  -                     980
Heifers                        -                                  -   L.              1,600
Steers                                                            -   /6              2,100
Breeding Fees                  -                                  -                     -                      118
Minerals                       -                                  -                                             88
Veterinary                     -                                  -                     -                      176
Total                       6.50                                                   23,609                  6,010                17,599
/1   Including hired labor.
/2   Green matter.
/3   Fed to livestock.
4   0.7 coWs per year.
/5   Oneheifer every two years.
/6   1.7 steers every year.
December 1975



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget - Farm Type IV - 25 ha
Item                                                                                Gross               Production               Net
Area                         Ptoductiou       Production Value             Cost         Production Value
(ha)                           (ton)                 (DU)                 (DH) /1                <DEl
Without Prolect
Wheat                        15.0                               .0                10,500                  8,550
Maize 1                       2.5                              2.0                 1,100                  1,000
Beans                         2.5                              2.0                 1,800                  1,125
Livestock                      -                                -                  6,765                    -
Total                      20.0                                                 20,165                 10,675               9,490
With Proiect
Whast                        12.50                            37.50               26,250                 12,750
Maise 2                       8.75                            21.90               12,031                  8,925
Sugar beet                    6.25                           281.00               27,000                 12,625
Alfalfa                       6.25                           375.00 /2               -  /3                8,375
Milk                           -                              34.76               33,020                    -
Culled Cov                     -                                -   4              6,195                    -
Heifer                         -                                -  P5             10,010                    -
Steers                         -                                -   /6            13,270                    -
Breeding Fees                  -                                -                    -                      740
Minerals                       -                                -                                           550
Veterinary                                      -                                    -                    1,105
Total                      33.75                                               127,776                 45,070              82,706
L    Including hired labor.
/2   Green matter.
/3   Fed to livestock.
4   Four cows per year.                                                                                                                              o x
Three heifers per year.                                                                                                                          cn
Seven steers per year.
December 1975



KINGDOM OP MOROCCO
DnUKKALA IRRIGATION PHOJECT
Variable Production Costs
With and Without Project
Yield  Physical   Mechanical    Type I-2 ha Farm    Type II-5 ha Farm    Type III-5 ha Parm           Type IV-25 ha Farm
Item                per ha   Input       Operation   Hired Labor   Total  Hired Labor   Total   Hired Labor Total    Hired Labor    Total
tons   -------------------------------------        -    DH/ha ----------------------------------------------------
Without Project
Wheat              1.0       159         181            -           340        -          340         -         340         230           570
Maize              0.8       169         111            -          280         -          280         -         280         120           400
Beans              0.8       176          99            -          275         -          275         -         275         175           450
With Project
Wheat              3-0       S09         181            -           690        30         720         60        750         330         1,020
Maize              2.5       377         123            -          500         70         570       100         600         520         1,020
Sugar beet        45.0       731         169            -            -        120      1,020        240       1,140       1,120         2,020
Cotton             1.5       722         134            -          856         -           -        160       1,016          -
Tomatoes          40.0     1,073         177            -        1,250         -           -        300       1,550
Alf!lf'a          60.0        420         230           -           500       120         620       230         730         840         1,34o
Berseem           25.0       129         111            -            -         -           -        100         340
Fodder BarleyLi  20.0         55         105            -          160                               -
/1 Green matter
December 1975



ANNEX 16
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic rate of return costing family labor at DH 8 per day
and hired labor at the market rate of DH 10 per day would be 11.5%. A
breakdown of investment costs including operation, maintenance and replace-
ment costs but excluding village infrastructure over the project life are
presented in Table 1. Processing industries have been excluded from the cost
stream because (a) they would be self-sustaining and (b) benefits have been
evaluated at the farmgate.
2.        The Table also shows the incremental net benefits and net cash
flows. For the economic analysis, tradeable commodities have been priced at
international prices as derived from commodity forecasts by IBRD Economic
Analysis and Projections Department for 1980, in 1975 constant US dollars.
Major assumption made for calculating the basic rate of return include:
(a) The economic life for drains, electromechanical equip-
ment and mobile sprinkler equipment of 25, 15, 15 and
10 years respectively, and for main adduction canals
40 years, buried pipes and other major civil work
structures of 50 years.
(b) Project investment costs, production inputs and project
benefits valued at in 1975 constant prices, net of taxes,
subsidies and price contingencies.
(c) Exclusion froei investment costs of credit cost for annual
production since these are included in the cost of production.
(d) Treatment as sunk costs of the existing diversion and adduc-
tion structures.
(e) Electricity cost of 0.128 Kwh which corresponds to present
average tariffs to large consumers.
(f) Full development period for (a) crops of 6 years in Doukkala,
and (b) livestock 10 years.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
2.        The results of the sensitivity tests are su1marized below:
Assumptions                                                Percent
Basic Rate of Return                                         11.4
20% increase in project costs                                 9.3
20% decrease ln power costs                                  14.3
50% increase ln pover costs                                  10.8
50% increase ln power costs, 20% in all other                 8.9
20% increase in benefits                                     13.7
20% decrease in benefits                                      8.8
Advancing project benefits by one year                       12.9
20% increase in project costs and 20% decrease
in benefits                                              6.8
January 9, 1976



DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economie Costs and Benefits
Incremental Cost.
1 Operation &                                              Incremental   Incremental
Year       Investment(- Maintenance     Power      Replacement       Total       Benefits       Cash Flow
--------- -- - -------- - --DH million___________
1975           3.7          o            o              o             3 
1976          26.1          0.7          o                                          O             2
1977          54.o          2.4          1.0            0            57.            0            (56.5)
1978          6o.5          4.1          o.6            o            65.2           2.2          (63.0)
1979          27.1          5.2          1.4           o             33.7           7.4          (26.3)
1980           o            5.3          2.2            o             7.5          13.7            6.2
1981           o            5.3          2.5           0              7.8          16.6            8.8
1982           o            5.3          2.9           o              8.2          22.5           14.3
1983           o            5.3          3.3            o             8.6          28.8           20.2
198M           o            5.3          3.5            o             8.8          35.2           26.4
1985           o            5.3          3.7           o              9.0          38.1           29.1
1986           o            5.3          3.7            o             9.0          40.6           31.6
1987           o            5.3          3.7           o              9.0          41.9           32.9
1988           o            5.3          3.7            o             9.0          42.6           33.6
1989-1991      o            5.3          3.7            o             9.0          43.1           34.1
1992           o            5.3          3.7           23.3          32.3          43.1           10.8
1993-1996      o            5.3          3.7           0              9.0          43.1           34.1
1997           o            5.3          3.7          11.8           20.8          43.1           22.3
1998-2006      o            5.3          3.7           0              9.0          43.1           34.1
2007           °            5.3          3.7           32.3          41.3          43.1            1.8
2008-2017      o            5.3          3.7           °              9.0           43.1          34.1
2018           o            5.3          3.7           11.8          20.8          43.1           22.3
1019-2021      o            5.3          3.7            o             9.0          43.1           34.1
2022           o            5.3          3.7           23.3          32.3          43.1           10.8
2023-2024      o            5.3          3.7           o              9.0          43.1           34.1
1IJ
/J Excludes cost of credit, roada, and village infrastructure. Costs are net of tixes And price contingencies.
December 1975



ANNEX 17
APPRAISAL OF
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Employment and Migration
1.        In the province of Jadida migration is towards Casablanca.  This
tendency is most pronounced in the Doukkala where migration was about 1.5%
per annum between 1961 and 1971 (Table 1). The project would increase
employment by 270% (4,100 man years), and the seasonality of labor would be
reduced' Labor supply in the project area is estimated to be 190,000 man days
and the rate of underemployment would be reduced from 75% to 10% and would
occur in about 5 months in the year. Some additional labor would be required
during harvesting periods. Migrant workers are available to fill this need.
Table 2 summarizes labor requirements in the project area.
2.        Indirectly the project would provide employment because of use of
increased processing and marketing of produce, and ancillary services related
to farm inputs. Migration out of the rural areas and into the urban areas
would fall. The Doukkala is close to the main urban center of Casablanca and
has suffered from a migration rate to the city at 1.5% per year. The irriga-
tion project would create a growth pole in the rural area, stemming migration
into larger cities with extremely high unemployment rates (Casablanca 1971
about 16%).
January 9, 1976



ANNLX
Tabl,.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUXKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Population, Age Distribution and Employment in the El Jadida Province
1961                 1971       7. per annum    Migration
Number      7.       Number       %  _rowth            Rate /
Population
Rural                    430,760    88         498,710      84    L.3             -1.5
Urban                      58,800    12         92,100      16    4.1             +1.3
Total                  489,560   100         590.810    100    1.9              - .9
Of which in
Project Area            108,254               124,796             1.3            -1.5
Age Distribution (1961)   Number        o of Total
0-14                     225,198    46
14-24                      73,434    15
25-64                     161,555    33
65                         29,373     6
Total                   489,560   100
Population by Activity    Number   % of Total
(1971)
Agriculture               121,020    71
Commerce                    7,020     4
Other                      43,360    25
Subtotal (Active)       171,400   100
Students                   41,020
Inactive                 378,390
Total  Population      590,810
/1 Based on an average population growth rate of 2.8% in Morocco between 1960-1971.
December 1975



ANNEX 17
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Labor Requirements
Man Day/Month
Without                    Incremental
Project    With Project   Requirement  X Increase
January                   64,100        105,900         41,800           65
February                  94,500        149,600         55,100           58
March                     6a,400        162,700        102,400          168
April                     65,100        169,800        104,700          161
May                      136,200        188,000         51,800           38
June                      20,000        227,200        207,200        1,036
July                      38,000        233,100        195,100          513
August                     6,300        187,200        180,700        2,780
Sep,tember                 6,500        145,200        138,700        2,134
October                   11,300        227,800        216,500        1,915
November                  33,700        172,300        138,700          412
December                  25,700        102,300         76,600          298
Total                  561,800      2,071,100      1,509,300          269
December 1975






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization of ORMVAD
DIRECTORATE
Secretariat
Operation and                           Design and                              Equipment
Administrative                            Lîvestock                            Agricultural                            Maintenance                            Construction                             and Building
Service                                 Service                                Service                                 Service                                Service                                 Service
Personnel                            Extension                              Extension                                 Operatiun and                         Engineering                               Maintenance
Accounting                           Animal Health                          Supply tif Inputs                         Maintenance of                        Topography                                Inventory
Legal                                Milk Collection                        Crop Production                           Distribution                          Land Consolidation                        Purcha.e
Contracts                            AI.                                    Experiment Stations                       S       stem                          Soils Laboratory                          Vehicles
Milk & Meat Inspec-                    Inspection otf CMV's                       Y                                    Construction                              Spares
Social Affairs                        tion                                                                                                                    Supervision
Small Animais
Subdivision for Agricultural                            f        Subdivision for                         Subdivision for
Development                   .................O & M                                               Construction
ZEMAMRA                                                     ZEMAMRA                                ZEMAMRA_
5CMVVs
Line of Command                                                                                                                                                                Worid Bank-15200(R)
........... Supportirn Activities






IBRD 11853R
9' 3                    .-5Mohammedla                                                                                           15'                                       JANUARY 1976
(;Cosoblan                                                                                                                    KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
T i   N   I C  A                                                                                          DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
A          A L f    T hç r S c                          .---'                                                                                                              Development af the Oum E  R'Bia Basin
0   :   \   E t S   d i d   yA z e m n i u r                                                                                                       'ker r e c h i d  ,   E x i s t i n g   i r r i g c t i o n O r e a s
Et Jadîd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  05errech,d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Projeot areas
O   C   Fr; A4 N       g         r        . DêMAAOH0U                                                                                                                                               r + Future extensions
/5>                                                                                                                                  A ,'-t O,/4P<                    |     Existing dams
//           ux A- 4          OÉDAOURAT           0Settat                                                                      Khentre                                      D     Potential danm sites                 33e
\z_\) SIDISMAIt` `    g-; FAREGI-)                                                    Oued Zenm                 IIIZGIFANE                (                             Hydro power plants
) ~              S/DI SMAIL                               K. Khnur,bgo0                                 eZ e                         F                                                  Tunnel
\/ ZEMAMYAWS          k>IISI~FOUT                                             r,- L         g                    i   X- -'  Main irrigation canaIs
7'                                                       . Ai                                      ' uSiDI HENNOUR <              oj tS BENI AMIR  -<  DECOHRA EL OUED                            Rivers
'TS/Dl BENNOUR                                                                      KZîDANIA  0Konbn Tadîa
, , o>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIDI CHEHO çR D.y..-
,/NINE RH*RB/A        2                                                    OHEHOCAS_=TO 10  20  30  40  50  60  70  80
'KILOMETERSO
i                     O~~~~~~~ le    20     30~
Beni Mellal                                                                                 _      --  MILES 9 49
s'                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
SENt MOUSSA r       AFOURER                                             -     terînetienai oosies        SPAIN74{f
BE-Ni MOUSSA      F       -            -                                  AI  A                                     : `5
AIT                                                                                           B            e Fes
CHOUARIT
``]AIT AADEL                                                                                                  (.    0                             SO
Deninste                                                                                  A     AS    ON       ` _     C |
, Mi>arrakech'--,--                                                                                                                                     - `'
M rkoh  AC'   dM                                                                                                                    Aseqdir    °    %                            A-o
W*LALLA TAKERKOUST                                                                                                                                                              c i
r  i                                                                                        j j boun2a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dr,rhrlr,,mso on  srhs p drrs,  A
o-  3                                           17                                          ,                              tv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~î J,s,s,s./l orpss rpnc   M






IBRD 11855R
Te El Jadido                            b El J.dido                               TEl Jd~d    To Settat                                                JANUARY 1976
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
a ~             0Fes                                                                                                                                             DOUKKALA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cosoblorsco   0M.knes                 4                                                                                                      Sidi Smai1
,n t  +       °Meknés             B  34                                                                                                              , 0  Sidi S W                   Prosect area
S      /:: oo t                                                                                                                                         y                                   Perimeter boundory
`3rOJFC    , c vMOROCCO    f                                                                            ~                                                                              Sector boundaries
32,                                                                                                      SebIlSais                                                                             Mainr canail
Mor-akech                                              D. el Hamormam                                                                                                           Feeder ccndl
2 ;8gadir ALGERIA                                                                 (1-\- P T 4 Collector drains
DciS2~flya (karst depression)
Roads
zmPI; enddkill ~*o°  th s mç do nor < J ,- X \ Brin Alèlry ., i ,fv I Surfaced rodds to be reinforced
New surfaced roads
Subregional headquarters
Ci Village centers
X   /  ,<,   t  Zionaa  /                                                            Pumpinrg stations
KI LOMETERS                                                                  .Tak Amofrj Khes /                                                                      aExisting CMV
MILE \   NS  -s            v          , t                                                 t                    ExperimentaS farm
T.ElJadida     f                                 §      ^r                               a/                    X|                       
/  V > i            a                                                                                               \  Sidi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bn ot ~; nn
/  v ,  217t    /                    -g)\                                                                                FACT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FCOR'A 
5 /                ~~~~~KlILOMETERSToK«iKsb
Tu Safi                                                                                                                                           T IE5l Mar,akech



