CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 317 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Development Fund Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 317 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Development Fund Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF UPPER
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The French Republic through its Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation and
the Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique have agreed in principle to assist
in the execution of the Project through the provision of technical experts; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BND" means the Banque Nationale de Developpement of the
Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 6/61/AN of January 23, 1961, and
includes any successor thereto;


﻿4
(b)   "RDF" means the Rural Development Fund referred to in Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)   "PWD" means the Direction des Travaux Publics of the Borrower's
Ministry in charge of Public Works;
(d)   "HER" means the Direction de l'Hy'draulique et de l'Equipement Rural
of the Borrower's Ministry in charge of Agriculture;
(e)   "ORD" means an Organisme Regional de Dveloppement, an organisme
d'interet public established under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to Law
No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965;
(f)   "DDR" means the Direction du Developpement Rural of the
Borrower's Ministry in charge of Agriculture;
(g)   "Project Manager" means the person referred to in Section 3.02 (b)
of this Agreement;
(h)   "Interdepartmental Technical Committee" means the Committee
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred thousand
dollars ($2,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borro-.,er shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE [H
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall cause BND to establish and maintain within its organization a new division,
the Rural Development Fund.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BND to employ for its RDF operations,
during the Project period, a Project Manager, a Deputy Manager and an Evaluation
Officer whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Association, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause BND to keep a consolidated account for
all RDF operations and separate accounts for each ORD by class of projects as
set forth under Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause HER to employ, during the Project period,
a sufficient number of engineers whose qualifications and experience are acceptable
to the Association, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In order to enable BND to carry out its function as the
financing mechanism under the Project, the Borrower shall credit to the RDF
quarterly in advance the amounts estimated by the Project Manager to be the
requirements for the execution of the Project for the following quarter on the
basis of annual programs approved by the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the ORD to prepare the projects
set forth under Part C 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with the
assistance of its competent departments and agencies, and to present such projects
to BND for financing.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause BND to appraise all proposed
construction projects included in the Project through its RDF division with the
assistance of the Borrower's departments and agencies before they shall be
incorporated into annual programs. Such projects and programs shall be reviewed
and approved first by the Interdepartmental Technical Committee and secondly
by the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BND to prepare a project report establishing
the economic justification of each project included in the Project under Part C
that is estimated to cost more than $20,000 and to submit for approval to the
Association the project report and its recommendations; works on such project
shall start only after the Association has approved such project.
Section 3.06. (a) In order to ensure adequate overall coordination of all
aspects of the , Project, the Borrower shall promptly establish, and thereafter
maintain until completion of the Project, an Interdepartmental Technical
Committee which shall consist of, inter alia, high ranking representatives of its
Ministries interested in the execution of the Project.


﻿7
(b)   The Chairman of the Interdepartmental Technical Committee shall be
a member of the Borrower's Government and the Secretary of such Committee
shall be the Project Manager.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause PWD to employ a qualified and
experienced highway engineer acceptable to the Association to supervise the feeder
road construction included in the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall at all times provide through the ORD
the necessary agricultural extension and credit services to farmers benefitting from
the land and water development projects included in the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the ORD to organize far,ner groups for each
such land and water development project, which shall provide all unskilled labor
required for maintenance and shall meet direct costs incurred by the ORD for
maintenance of bas fonds and small irrigation schemes through paying an annual
levy. Such maintenance charges shall be annually reviewed in consultation with
the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause its Ministry in charge of Agriculture to define
in a model contract approved by the Association the respective rights and
obligations of the ORD and the farmers participating in land development projects.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall charge ORD with the management and
maintenance of the warehouses and the land and water development projects, HER
with the maintenance of the wells, and PWD with the maintenance of feeder roads
included in the Project, and shall make adequate funds available to these agencies
for this purpose.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause BND, assisted by its departments
and agencies, to conduct studies on the implications of the execution of the Project
to the Borrower's budget the impact of increased economic activity brought about
by RDF and the feasibility of collecting repayments for project costs from the
farmers. The terms of reference and the timetable for such studies shall be approved
by the Association and the Association shall have the opportunity to review the
progress of such studies and to comment on the final report.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance


﻿8
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BND to maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consi3tently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BND.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause BND to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case


﻿9
not later than seven months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of BND and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause BND to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause about 20 wells and tube wells
equipped with pumps, including hand operated wheel type pumps, to be constructed
under Part C 2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and cause BND and the
appropriate ORD to maintain records adequate to reflect the cost, efficiency, and
utility of such wells in comparison with the open-type wells that would comprise
the remainder of the wells constructed under Part C 2 of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause BND, the appropriate ORD and
the competent administrations to furnish to the Association such information
regarding public health and environmental sanitation as the Association may
reasonably require, and shall cooperate with and give assistance to health experts
of the Association carrying out a study financed by the Association about the
effects of the Project on the health conditions of the population and the measures
to be taken against any possible adverse effect.
(b)   The  Borrower shall take the necessary     steps to  ensure that
constructions under the Project would not adversely affect health conditions. Such
measures shall include the control of bilharzia snails and the larvae of the blackfly
vector of onchocerciasis in constructions under Part C 4 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; and the routine treatment of the wells constructed under Part C 2
against pollution with human disease organisms.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿10
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BND and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of BND and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform    each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to i-terfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement.
(c)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall
inform the Association of any new assistance for rural development and ensure
that such assistance shall be administered in a way that does not conflict with
the objectives and operations of RDF.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿11
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Law No. 6/61/AN of January 23, 1961 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
(b)   Law No. 20/65/AN of July 28, 1965 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of


﻿12
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Interdepartmental
Technical Committee shall have been duly established and its members appointed
in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date September 29, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement and those of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finances is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou, Upper Volta
Cable address:
Minifinance
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s / Dominique Sisso
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mohamed Shoaib
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    C.I.F. (Ouagadougou)             141,500           100% of foreign
cost of equipment                                  expenditures
imported under
Parts A and B of
the Project
Il.   Construction costs,             1,834,000          83% of total
equipment, materials                               expenditures
and supplies for
Part C of the Proj-
ect; Office and
other equipment, all
operating costs and
salaries of the road
engineer and local
personnel for Parts A
and B of the Project;
costs of studies
under Part D of the
Project
III.  Unallocated                      224,500
TOTAL          2,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods


﻿15
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if after consultation with the Borrower, the Association shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is


﻿16
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    Staffing and equipping the RDF.
Part B:    Strengthening the personnel of and equipping the HER and the PWD.
Part C:    Construction of:
1.   about 5 sections of feeder roads, by the PWD, totaling about
270 km;
2.    about 500 wells;
3.    about 700 warehouses;
4.    facilities for about 190 small land and water development
projects covering about 2,700 ha in total; and
5.    such other facilities as the studies carried out under Part D below
will show to be technically and economically sound and of high
development priority.
Part D:    The carrying out of studies, including studies on the implications of
the execution of the Project to the Borrower's budget, the impact
of increased economic activity brought about by RDF and the
feasibility of collecting repayments for project costs from the farmers,
and a study on the impact of the Project on the health condition
of Project participants. Such study may encompass remedial measures
eventually to be taken in this field.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1975.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods and services, other than those referred
to under paragraph 3 of this Schedule, estimated to cost more than the equivalent
of $50,000:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services, other than those
referred to under paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award cf the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth


﻿19
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Any contract for goods and services estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $4,000 may be awarded by the Borrower on the basis of quotation from local
suppliers.


