CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBIR 180 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 27, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 180 CM
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 27, 1970


﻿Brorlopwt QTugbit Agru~mut
AGREEMENT, dated March 27, 1970 between the FED-
ERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (here-
inafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement dated Janu-
ary 29, 1968 (hereinafter called the First Development
Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association granted to the Borrower a develop-
ment credit in various currencies equivalent to five hundred
and fifty thousand dollars ($550,000) (hereinafter called
the First Development Credit) to assist in financing the
detailed engineering and related studies of certain high-
ways;
WHEREAS the Borrower hq requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the cost of the project described
in Schedule I to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development (herein-
after called the Bank) to provide additional financing for
such project and, by a loan agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank agrees to
provide such financing in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000);
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association intend, to the
extent practicable, that the proceeds of the credit provided
for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of expendi-
tures under such project before disbursements of the pro-
ceeds of the loan provided for in such loan agreement are
made; and


﻿4
WHEREAS the Association is prepared to refund the First
Development Credit out of the proceeds of the development
credit provided for herein;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Deflnitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to the Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Ar,licable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the Gen-
eral Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Loan
Agreement" means the loan agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank, and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated January 31, 1969,
as made applicable thereto, all agreements supplemental to
such agreement and all schedules thereto, as such agree-
ment, supplemental agreements and schedules may be
amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01 The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in


﻿5
various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars
($7,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and susp, nsion set forth in, the Development
Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be
modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of
such Schedule or by further agreement between the Bor-
rower, the Association and the Bank.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Association shall withdraw from
the Credit Account and pay to itself, on behalf of the Bor-
rower, the amount required to refund the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding, together with the accrued serv-
ice charge thereon, of the First Development Credit on
the Effective Date. Any amount remaining unwithdrawn
shall automatically be cancelled on the same date.
(b) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from
the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for the Project and to be financed
under the Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of seventy-four per cent (747) of
such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, of such amounts as shall


﻿6
be required to meet payments to be made) for
goods or services included in Categories I, H and
III of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; provided, however, that if there shall
be an increase in the estimate of such payments
for goods or services included in any of the Cate-
gories I, II and III, the Association may by notice
to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage ap-
plicable to such Category as required in order that
withdrawals of the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to such Category and not withdrawn may
continue pro rata with the payments remaining to
be made for goods or services included in such
Category.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments for taxes imposed by
the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or in
connection with the importation or supply of, goods or
services included in Category IV of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and


﻿7
December 1 commencing June 1, 1980 and ending December
1, 2019, each installment to and including the installment
payable on .December 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent ('/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1  %)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures on the Project,
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval
of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due. diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices,


﻿8
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) To assist in carrying out (i) the engi-
neering supervision of the works included in Part A (2)
of the Project and (ii) Part B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ competent and experienced consultants ac-
ceptable to the Association, to an extent, and upon terms
and conditions (including terms of reference) which shall
be acceptable to the Association, and which may be modified
only in agreement with the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the civil works included in
Part A (1) of the Project to be constructed to the general
design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
and by competent and experienced contractors acceptable
to the Association, employed under contracts which shall
have been approved by the Association, which may be modi-
fied only in agreement with the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the Public Works Depart-
ments of East Cameroon and of West Cameroon to assist
it in carrying out the works included in Parts A and B
of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the reports, plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, within a reason-
able time, take all measures necessary to adequately coordi-
nate the transport sector and to strengthen its adminis-
tration.
(b) To ensure the rievelopment of adequate statistics for
future transport planning, the Borrower shall cause the
Public Works Departments of East Cameroon and of West


﻿I
9
Cameroon to collect periodically and to record such data
as are required to assess the technical, economic and finan-
cial aspects of the principal highways located respectively
in whole or in part in the Federated State of East Cameroon
and in the Federated State of West Cameroon.
(c) The Borrower shall take such measures as are re-
quired to strengthen the staffing of the Public Works De-
partments of East Cameroon and of West Cameroon, in-
cluding, but without limitation, by providing on-the-job
training of Cameroonian engineers.
(d) The Borrower shall at all times adequately maintain,
or cause to be adequately maintained, the principal roads
and bridges in its national highway system.
(e) The Borrower shall take all reasonable steps, includ-
ing the establishment and enforcement of appropriate limi-
tations on size and weight of vehicles, which may be neces-
sary to ensure the proper use of the principal roads and
bridges of its national highway system.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) at all times
maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and the operations and budgetary condition, with
respect to the national highway system of the Borrower,
of the agency or agencies of the Borrower or of either
Federated State responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof; and (ii) shall enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, all other plants,
sites, works, properties, machinery, equipment and opera-
tions of the Borrower relevant to the Project and any
relevant records and documents.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association


﻿10
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the operations
and administration with respect to the Project of thi agency
or agencies of the Borrower or of either Federated State
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to have
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit insured against marine, transit and other haz-
ards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely useable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
SECTION 4.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credi-,
the maintenance of the service thereof, the Project, and
the operations, administration and budgetary condition,
with respect to the national highway system of the Bor-
rower, of the agency or agencies of the Borrower or of
either Federated State responsi.ole for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.


﻿11
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for pur-
poses related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.07. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories, and free frori all restric-
tions imposed under any such laws.
SECTION 4.08. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on, or in connection with, the execution, delivery or regis-
tration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedie. of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then, at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately together with the service charges thereon and upon
any such declaration such principal, together with such
charges, shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing in the Development Credit Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.


﻿12
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that all the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement other
than the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 6.02. The date June 1, 1970 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.03 of this Agreement shall terminate on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall termi-
nate or on a date thirty years after the date of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Planning and Develop-
ment of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Federal Ministry of Planning and Development
Yaounde
Cameroon


﻿13
Cable Address:
Minplan
Yaound6
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNEsS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ JOSEPH N. OwoNo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATIoN
By /s/ M. SHOAIB
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The project consists of the following parts:
A. (1) The improvement of the following road sections
totalling about 300 kilometers:
(i) the N'Gaoundere-Garoua road (about 273 kilo-
meters) in East Cameroon; and
(ii) the Tiko-Victoria road (about 27 kilometers)
in West Cameroon; and
(2) The engineering supervision of the works included
in Part A (1) above.
B. Feasibility studies of the improvement of the Garoua-
Mora road (about 254 kilometers) and of the Douala-
Pont du Nkam road (about 180 kilometers) in East
Cameroon, and the detailed engineering for such road
sections.
C. The carrying out of the uncompleted parts of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the First Development Credit
Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1973.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
Maximum
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
I. Road improvement-
Part A (1) of the Project             14,300,000
II. Engineering supervision-
Part A (2) of the Project                950,000
III. Feasibility studies and detailed
engineering-Part B of the Project        950,000
IV. (a) Refunding of the First
Development Credit;
(b) Preparation of bidding documents
and evaluation of bids-
Part C of the Project                550,000
V. Interest and other charges on the Loan
accrued on or before May 31, 1973        865,000
VI. Unallocated                            1,385,000
Total:        19,000,000
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of this
Agreement, and shall be applied to expenditures under
any of the Categories I, II, III and IV, until the total
of such withdrawals, and of commitments, if any, in
respect of such expenditures, shall have reached the
equivalent of $7,000,000.
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan shall be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan


﻿16
Agreement, and shall be applied to expenditures under
any of the Categories I, II, III, IV (b) and V incurred,
in the case of Categories I, II, III and IV (b) after the
amount of the Credit shall have been exhausted, except
that withdrawals from the Loan Account may be made
prior to such exhaustion in respect of commitments
referred to in Section 2.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
3. If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the
Categories I through V shall decrease, the amount then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated to Category VI by the Association
and the Bank, or by the Bank, as the case may be.
4. If the estimate of the expenditures under any of the
Categories I through V shall increase, an amount equal,
in the case of any of the Categories IV and V, to the
portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, and, in the
case of any of the Categories I, II and III, an amount
equal to 74%o of such increase, will be allocated at the
request of the Borrower, by the Association and the
Bank, or by the Bank, as the case may be, to such Cate-
gory from Category VI, subject, however, to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Associa-
tion and the Bank, in respect of expenditures under any
of the other Categories.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following supplementary procurement procedures
shall be followed:
1. With respect to goods and services included in Category I
of the allocation of proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the time
interval between the invitations to bid and bid opening will
not be less than sixty days. During such time interval, pros-
pective bidders will be afforded an opportunity to visit the
site of the works and to discuss with the Borrower any
question related to the proposed works or contracts.
2. Prior to inviting bids, information concerning the adver-
tising coverage, prequalification procedures, as well as invi-
tations to bid, specifications, proposed terms and conditions
of contracts, and all other tender documents, will be sub-
mitted to the Association for its approval. Identical or
similar items or groups of items to be procured will be
grouped together wherever practicable for the purpose of
bidding and procurement, and such grouping will be subject
to the approval of the Association upon submission of such
tender documents.
3. With respect to contracts in respect of goods or services
included in Categories I to III of the aforesaid allocation
of proceeds:
(a) Before awarding any contracts, the Borrower will
submit to the Association for its approval an abstract and
an evaluation of the bids received, and the Borrower's pro-
posal concerning the contract and the award. The Borrower
shall employ Consultants to assist it in evaluating bids for
goods and services included in Category I of the said allo-
cation of proceeds. The contract will be awarded to the
bidder offering the lowest evaluated bid determined to be


﻿18
the most favorable in regard to technical and financial con-
siderations and practices. The Borrower shall award the
contract within two months after obtaining the Associa-
tion's approval required herein, and shall send two con-
formed copies thereof to the Association promptly upon
its execution and prior to the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract.
(b) The successful contractor will furnish a performance
bond equal to the contract price or a bank guarantee equal
to 10% of such price. In addition, the contract will provide
for the retention of 10% of the amount paid under each
monthly invoice until a total equal to at least 5% of the
contract price will have been retained, or for a bank guar-
antee equal to 5% of such price. Any amount thus retained
will be released after full performance of the contract, at
the end of a warranty period of one year for defective work.
4. Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to a
contractor or manufacturer not registered in the territory
of the Borrower, the Borrower shall facilitate the accom-
plishment by -uch contractor or manufacturer of all for-
malities which may be required to carry out such contract.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Part A of the Project
N'Gaoundere-Garoua  Tiko-Victoria
Road            Road
Rolling     Flat
Country    Country
Design speed (kph)          80        100         70
Minimum radius of
horizontal curves (m)    300        500        300
Maximum grades (o)          8          5          7
Bituminous surfacing
width (m)                  6          6          7
Roadway width (m)            8          8         11
Pavement design
axle load (t)             13         13         13
Width of structures:                          two traffic
lanes
span less than 20 m         two traffic lanes
span more than 20 m         one traffic lane


