Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2969-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
February 27, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Baht (B)
$1           -  B 20
B 1             $0.05
B 1 million  -  $50,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT - Bank of Thailand
IFCT - Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
IFCT-s FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFF'ICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOURTH IFCT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Guarantor:          Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:             $30 million equivalent
Terms:              15 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% p.a.
Relending           TFCT would charge subborrowers an interest rate of 14.5%
Terms:            for all its domestic and foreign currency loans, or such
other rate(s) as may be established by its Board from
time to time, after consultation with the Bank.
Project             This project is designed to enhance the developmental role
Description:    of IFCT and increase its support of the Government's
industrial development strategy which emphasizes disper-
sion of investment in the provincial areas, aLnd assistance
to labor-intensive and export-oriented industries. The
loan proceeds will be used to finance the foreign exchange
costs of industrial subprojects; however, in the case of
subprojects located more than 100 km from Bangkok, the
loan may be used to finance 100% of IFCT's subloan, up to
a maximum of 50% of total subproject costs, i.ncluding some
local costs. There are no special risks associated with
the project; IFCT undertakes rigorous appraisal of proj-
ects prior to lending, and its exchange risk coverage
agreement with the Government adequately protects IFCT
against possible exchange risks.
Estimated               Bank FY:          1982      1983      1984      1985
Disbursements:                               ----- $ million 
Annual                6.9      16.7        6.3       0.1
Cumulative            6.9      23.6      29.9       30.0
Staff Appraisal   No. 3206a-TH, dated February 10, 1981.
Report:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for an amount in various currencies equivalent to $30 million to the
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT), to be guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Thailand.  The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 4
years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report concludes that Thailand's rapid economic
growth over the past 15 years has led to a significant reduction in absolute
poverty, but that important poverty groups have lagged behind. It identifies
the essential characteristics of these groups and points to the need for
continued overall development as well as the initiation of specific measures
to deal with the poverty problem, particularly in rural areas. It further
discusses the constraints on the successful implementation of these
policies. Further constraints have emerged since then, as a mixture of
external and internal conditions has put pressure on Thailand's balance of
payments and accelerated domestic inflation. Policies to deal with these
issues are discussed in the recent Country Economic Memorandum entitled
"Thailand: Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy" (3067a-TH),
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 8, 1981 and was
discussed in a meeting of the Consultative Group on Thailand in early
February 1981. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        The frequent changes at the top levels of government, which have
characterized political developments in Thailand, have mainly reflected
differing views on Thailand's external relations and on the po:Litical
decision-making process within the country. The Government under the prime
ministership of General Prem Tinsulanonda which was formed on March 14,
1980, received the support of nearly all major political parties. On March
28, 1980, General Prem announced his government-s policies on a number of
issues including economic and social development. These polic:Les place high
and immediate priority on accelerating rural development, raising rural
incomes and on measures to improve health and education. Particular
emphasis is given to generating more jobs, partly through a rural public



works program similar to the 1975/76 Tambon Program. The Government also
has made major efforts to contain inflation. As it was increasingly succes-
ful in doing this, it has more recently made significant upward revisions in
energy prices, to bring them to a more realistic level. Reforms in monetary
and fiscal policy and efforts to improve the trade balance through improved
export performance are also being undertaken. As discussed below, these
reforms are critical to the Government's efforts to increase resource
mobilization (especially in the public sector) and reduce the current
account deficit. The Government is drawing together the various elements of
its economic policies in the context of the preparation of the Fifth
Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan which will start on
October 1, 1981. An outline of the Plan has recently been completed.
Past Trends and Recent Changes
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  The
average annual growth of real GDP from 1960 to 1979 was 7.9%, or about 4.8%
per capita. Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% was a leading factor
sustaining this expansion. During most of this period, the cultivated area
increased by about 4% a year, water control was improved, irrigation was
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops, including maize,
cassava, kenaf, sugar and rubber, grew rapidly. Agriculture has also been a
major contributor to export growth. As a share of GDP, domestic savings
fluctuated between 19% and 24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%.
The high level of private investment contributed to a real industrial growth
of 10% per year since 1970. All this was achieved with a limited inflow of
external resources and, until recently, the debt service remained quite low.
5.        The large growth in incomes over the last two decades has, however,
not been equitably distributed throughout the country, and at present there
are very significant regional differentials in incomes and access to
economic and social infrastructure. The regions are very different in terms
of topography, climate, soils, urbanization, etc., and present quite
distinct problems for future development. The Central Region, including
Bangkok, has the highest per capita income and is better served by roads,
telecommunications, schools, public health and other services than the other
three regions, the North, Northeast and South. Within the regions also
there is considerable variation: farmers who have diversified into cash
crops have generally enjoyed substantial growth in real incomes while the
incomes of those who have been unable or unwilling to shift out of
subsistence rice culture have stagnated. Recent research has shown that
inappropriate cropping patterns and agricultural techniques are major
factors in much of the rural poverty. This is most conspicuously the case
of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast and North. Since there is a
well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this large group have
tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
6.        Concern over the plight of the poor is growing, and observable
improvements in rural living standards are being seen as a major factor in
promoting political stability. In the past several years the Government has



-3-
initiated efforts to increase the flow of public resources to the poor rural
areas, including the Tambon Program of direct transfers to villages in 1976,
the drought relief program in 1977, the flood relief program in 1978, the
new village development program in 1979 and the rural employment program in
1980. These programs have been designed to produce quick and tangible
political as well as economic results, but considerably more atltention and
resources need to be devoted to rural development if these programs are to
have lasting impact. While the absorptive capacity in rural areas has
increased since the Tambon Program of 1975-76, there is some concern about
the efficacy of crash programs in view of the resource constraints facing
the budget and the limitations of implementation capacity at various levels
of government.
7.        Thailand's balance of payments position and its trade prospects
are now less favorable than in the early 1970s. The overall balance of
payments, which recorded surpluses in 1973 and 1974, has since been running
deficits, averaging almost $500 million annually since 1977. In 1978, the
current account deficit reached $1.1 billion, or 5% of GDP, and increased in
1979 to $2.1 billion, or about 8% of GDP. The most significant changes in
the external environment have been the rapid increase in the price of
imported energy, the decline in net transfer and service payments to Thailand
and the conjunction of inflation and recession throughout the world.
In 1980 there was only a relatively small further increase in the current
account deficit, and it dropped in relation to GDP. This salutary result
was probably partly due to temporary favorable factors.
8.        To contain and finance the balance of payments deficit, the Govern-
ment has however also taken a number of measures. It has increased
significantly its borrowing from traditional sources and the Eurodollar
market, and at the beginning of 1980 raised interest rate ceilings by 3
percentage points in order to encourage domestic savings and tc, curtail the
flight of capital abroad. Foreign exchange reserves have also been used
extensively.
9.        The Government has also adjusted domestic prices to slow the
growth of imports. In M4arch 1978, tariffs on non-essential imports were
raised, along with excise taxes on a number of items, notably gasoline.
Petroleum product prices were raised in January 1979, July 1979, February
1980, and January 1981 for a cumulative increase of about 120% for gasoline.
Currently, the latter's price is the equivalent of $2.20 per gallon. After
a proposed power tariff increase of about 55% was rejected in tNovember 1979,
a lesser tariff increase of about 38% was finally implemented in February
1980 and further increases of 26% and 15% were implemented on October 1,
1980 and January 9, 1981, respectively.
Development Prospects and Constraints
10.       In the coming decade, many of the positive factors wlhich helped
sustain rapid economic growth over the past two decades will continue to
stimulate the economy. These factors include a relatively equitable distri-
bution of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved technology;



- 4 -
provision of infrastructure by the Government; and the dynamism of the
private sector in both industry and agriculture. Also, major gains have
been made in family planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of
population growth from about 3% during the 1960s to an estimated 2.2% in 1979.
The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
11.       Some less favorable domestic factors are emerging, however.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the 1960s, the labor force is
presently growing at 3% p.a., and this necessitates a high rate of job
creation.  Past growth has benefited households unevenly and created further
income disparities that could threaten the social cohesion of the country.
At the same time, additional fertile land, which has supported the growth of
agricultural production and exports in the past, is becoming increasingly
scarce.  In view of these factors, continued reliance on the past pattern of
development may lead to a deceleration of agricultural and overall growth in
the next decade; persistently large balance of payments deficits; higher
rates of unemployment or underemployment; and stagnating or declining real
incomes of the poorer segments of the population, especially in rural areas
and among unskilled workers. These internal factors are complicated by the
external factors of rapid oil price increases and recession in developed
countries. The unfavorable external situation will require major domestic
adjustments and it is unlikely that the overall growth rate can be as high
as in recent years.
12.       Thailand must shift its economy from a pattern of growth based on
the extension of land under cultivation and on import-substituting industries
to one based on increasingly intensive use of land and on industries producing
for domestic and export markets under competitive conditions. At the same
time it must reduce its current account deficit and increase public savings.
Effective policies and programs will be necessary to ensure that economic
growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or at least not widened,
during this period of transition.  In the past, the Government's role has
focused primarily on short-term economic management and the provision of basic
economic and social services.  In order to achieve a relatively smooth
transition, the Government will now have to undertake more coordinated
long-term policies and play a more active role in development management.
13.       Agriculture will continue to be the dominant sector since it
directly generates 30% of GDP, provides about 60% of total exports, and
employs 75% of the labor force. However, future growth of the sector will
require more intensive utilization of cultivated areas, continued diversifica-
tion of crops, improved cropping patterns and farming practices, and easier
access to agricultural inputs including credit. All of these imply an
increased government role in rural development. But while growth in the
agricultural sector may be expected to remain fairly rapid for some time to
come, the burden of sustaining future growth will have to shift progressively
to the industrial sector. Industry, construction and services will have to
provide an increasing share of employment for the growing labor force. In
1979, industrial production accounted for about one-fourth of GDP and about



one-third of total exports. Manufactured output, which accounted for 90% of
industrial production, achieved an export growth of 24% in 1979, almost
double the growth rate of total exports. While continued growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic market also offers
opportunities for a balanced industrial growth based on production of
consumer goods, agricultural inputs and processing of agricultural outputs
for urban consumption. The Bank's policy dialogue will concentrate on
efforts to reduce price distortions, increase availability of credit, and
eliminate impediments to efficient production for domestic and foreign
markets so that the dynamic private sector can realize its potential for
spurring growth and creating jobs.
14.       The principal objectives of the Government's Fifth PLan (1982-86)
are to achieve 7% real growth, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and balanced regional development. In contrast to earlier Plans which
addressed sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, it is intended
to identify the concrete policies and programs to meet the Fifth Plan's
economic and social objectives in much more detail. The National Economic
and Social Development Board and the more specialized agencies of the
Government are undertaking a number of studies to help ensure that the Fifth
Plan provides an unambiguous basis for the allocation of resources and the
formulation of development policies and programs. These studies may help
identify possible areas of Bank lending for structural adjustmLent.
Consultations between the Government and the Bank are satisfactory; several
substantive discussions have taken place since the present Government came to
power and a comprehensive discussion was held at the Consultative Group
Meeting in Paris on February 3 and 4, 1981.
Financing Requirements
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (13.5% for 1975-79) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance.  With
expenditures rising, the overall budgetary deficit in fiscal year 1979/80
was about $1.4 billion, or 5% of GDP. The Government has ach:Leved a modest
improvement in resource mobilization through revision of the tax structure
and improved collections.  To reduce the reliance on foreign financing - and
thereby the deficit on the current account of the balance of payments -
the Government intends to keep the 1980/81 deficit to about $1.0 billion or
3% to 3.5% of GNP. In addition, the financial situation of public enter-
prises will be improved.
16.       During the coming years, the demand for external resources will
increase. Despite a targeted average real growth of exports of over 11% and
increased domestic production of primary energy, the projected rise in the
price of imports - led by the price of petroleum - implies that large trade
and current account deficits are expected to persist through the mid-1980s.
The Government's objective is to keep the current account deficits during the
Fifth Plan period in absolute amounts to about the recent level of slightly
in excess of $2 billion per annum. This will necessitate significant



-6-
efforts in implementing energy saving measures, promoting agricultural
growth and exports, reducing distortions and excessive protection in
industry, promoting more labor-intensive exports, and postponing major
capital intensive investments until the economy can afford them. Even the
realization of the Government's ambitious balance of payments targets will
require very large amounts of external borrowing, totaling more than $10
billion over the period 1982-86. Less favorable assumptions would increase
this amount to $13 billion.
17.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of Thailand-s growing resource
requirements. The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond
markets. The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to
coordinate and approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank
of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. At the recent
Consultative Group meeting, various delegations indicated that in 1981 about
$1.2 billion would be available from official sources. External agencies,
including the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated
project lending to Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits,
but low foreign exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in
selected projects where the foreign exchange component is low, to finance
some local currency expenditures. Program and structural adjustment lending
should also be considered.
18.       By 1985, net disbursements will more than double in current terms
for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private borrowing.
Still the debt service ratio on public debt (4.6% in 1979) will not exceed
10% at any time. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance,
the debt service ratio on total public and private civilian borrowing
(currently about 15%) will rise to about 20% before declining. Given the
diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion of
manufactured exports, these debt service requirements should be sustainable
if rapid export growth continues, more domestic resources are mobilized, and
economic stability is maintained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
19.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of December 31, 1980, had received 61 IBRD loans amounting to
about $2,042 million, net of cancellations. The sectoral distribution of
these loans has been as follows: $411 million for transportation; $316 mil-
lion for irrigation; $726 million for power/energy and rural electrification
(including $66 million for a dual purpose power and irrigation project);
$153 million for telecommunications; $193 million for agricultural and rural
development; $149 million for urban development; $52 million for education;
and $42 million for industry. Thailand has also received six IDA credits:
two credits totalling $54.5 million for education; one credit of $25.0 million
for rural development; two credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation



-7-
improvement; and one credit of $33.1 million for a population project. In
general, Bank Group-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily
and in accordance with expectations. Annex II contains a sumrmary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as well as brief notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of December 31, 1980.
20.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastruc-
ture projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a
program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts
to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for only about 50% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically
designed to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending
to the agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for
about 35% of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in
this sector has also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to
a more balanced program covering irrigation (including land development and
support services to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to
assist farmers outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, live-
stock, agricultural extension, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which prior to FY75 were limited to three in education account-
ing for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In recent years
education, population and low-income housing projects have accounted for
about 15% of the program.
21.       The findings of the 1978 Basic Economic Report and the recent
Country Economic Memorandum verify the appropriateness of the! shift mentioned
above, and underscore the need to move even further in desigrning programs
which help the rural population, particularly those farmers in rainfed areas
who have been largely bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultu-
ral sector, therefore, the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop an
approach which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence
existence. A combination of education, agricultural research and extension,
credit and improved infrastructure is foreseen. However, the major problem
is the absence so far of a viable package for the poorest and most remote
farmers. Expansion and improvement of irrigation systems will continue,
with increased emphasis on reaching those farmers in areas wiith irrigation
potential in the northern, northeastern and southern regions. The program
of transportation, electrification, water supply and telecommunications
projects will also continue to have a rural focus. A key element of the
strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report is the creation of jobs and
stimulation of increa3ed economic activity outside of Bangkok. The bulk of
the Bank Group's urbmn and industrial lending will, therefore, be directed
to projects which enhance the attractiveness of regional cities as service
centers for the agricultural economy of those regions. Selected projects in



- 8 -
Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies providing essential services
to the urban population and the development of low cost, replicable programs
to meet the demands of the urban sector, particularly the urban poor, without
diverting scarce resources from other high-priority development needs.
22.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will be
difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward institu-
tional development and project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in
Bangkok will continue to play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare
such projects. Promoting overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand
and is a necessary element in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource
requirements for infrastructure development and for developing energy and
its domestic primary sources are large, and the Bank is concentrating its
remaining funds in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting
policy changes and mobilizing other resources. The Bank is also expanding
its support of the industrial sector through its economic and sector work as
well as selected projects in order to help promote industrial policies which
promote exports and favor more labor-intensive and dispersed activities.
23.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted
to $584.3 million, as of December 31, 1979, representing about 22% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of public
debt service payments in 1979 was 23.1%, or 7.2% of total debt service
including private debt. This is not excessive in view of Thailand's modest
overall public external debt (9.7% of GDP in 1979). In addition, although
the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over the next five
years, the Bank Group's share is below 30% of total public external debt as
Thailand has diversified its borrowing program. The Bank Group's share in
total debt outstanding is expected to fall below 20%, and its share of total
debt service would not exceed 10%.
24.       As of December 31, 1980, IFC had made commitments totalling about
$84 million in nine projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. At an advanced stage of consideration by IFC are projects in the
cement, tin mining and tantalum processing industries. Prospects for
increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private
sector investment activity; consultations with the Government have identified
several areas where IFC's assistance may be needed. These areas include
very large and complex projects such as a proposed soda ash project to serve
the ASEAN community; projects in the mineral resources area; projects in the
petroleum and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the
agricultural sector. In addition, IFC expects to continue to help
traditional manufacturing projects and to assist in financial institutions
and money market developments.



- 9 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Industrial Sector
Sector Performance.
25.       The industrial sector (manufacturing, mining and construction) is
the second largest in Thailand after agriculture. In 1979, it accounted for
about 27% of GDP, 28% of total investment and 8% of total employment.
Manufacturing alone accounted for 90% of industrial production. In 1960, the
industrial sector had accounted for less than 12% of GDP and was oriented
almost entirely towards producing consumer goods for the domestic market.
With substantial opportunities for import substitution and an environment
which encouraged investments, manufacturing output grew at an average annual
rate of around 11% (in real terms) between 1970 and 1979. As the easier
import-substitution opportunities were exhausted, investment in the 1970s
shifted towards export industries. Between 1970 and 1978, manufactured
exports increased from about $144 million to $1,700 million, cr from about 20%
to 30% of total exports. The most important manufacturing industries are
petroleum refining, food processing (including sugar refining'), cement,
beverages, tobacco, textiles and wearing apparel, foot-wear, rubber and
transport equipment.
26.       Several additional factors contributed to the rapid growth of the
industrial sector during the last two decades. Thailand has had savings and
investment rates higher than other developing countries of comparable size and
income per capita. The average share of domestic savings and investments in
GDP increased from 21% in 1960 to 27% in 1979. Domestic as well as foreign
investment have also benefited from political stability and from the
maintenance of a generally favorable investment climate. Furt:hermore, up to
the oil crisis of 1973, Thailand had a more open trade system than most
countries at similar levels of economic development with relatively low
tariffs and few quantitative import restrictions. Although after 1973 - due
to the increases in oil prices and balance of payments deterioration - the
Government increasingly resorted to inaustrial protection, Thailand still
remains an open economy. This openness of the economy is refliected in the high
share of foreign trade in GDP: in 1970 and 1979, the import share of GDP
averaged 21% and 26% respectively.
27.       The rapid growth in the exports of Thai manufactured goods has been
a relatively recent phenomenon and started from a very low base. Although the
proportion of total output exported by manufacturing is still relatively
small, the export orientation of many subsectors has been much higher, e.g.,
in 1978, about 60% of the domestic production of rubber and plastic products
and 35% of leather products were exported. WIhile the export orientation of



- 10 -
some industries is thus already high, these and other industries have
potential for further increases in exports provided there are appropriate
incentives.
28.        The growth rate of employment in the manufacturing sector has been
more than twice that of the growth in the overall labor force; the sector
absorbed 220% of the increment to the labor force between 1970 and 1977.
During the 1970s, manufacturing employment grew at an annual rate of about
10%, and nearly 7% of total jobs are now found in this sector. The food
processing, textile and apparel, and transport equipment industries have had
the greatest success in absorbing additional labor. The growth of employment
in the manufacturing sector is partly explained by the rapid growth of the
sector itself and partly by the relatively faster growth of export-oriented
industries which tend to be more labor-intensive than those producing for the
domestic market.
29.        Historically, industry has been concentrated in Bangkok and the
Central region. About 80% of the total manufacturing value-added originates
from these two areas. Better regional dispersion is a stated government
objective, and this is being encouraged through various kinds of tax
incentives. These incentives have not been enough to counteract the strong
pull of Bangkok with its large consumer market and access to international
trade, however, and the regional distribution of industrial value-added has
shown little improvement in recent years.  The most promising potential for
industrial growth in the regions is for small industries catering to regional
markets or domestic resource-based agro-industries. Realizing this potential,
however, will require improved infrastructure in outlying areas, and better
access to credit and improved technology for small-scale industries.
Industrial Sector Issues and Policy Considerations
30.        Industrial sector issues and policy considerations were examined in
considerable detail in two recent Bank reports: Industrial Development
Strategy in Thailand, dated June 5, 1980, (No. 2804a-TH); and Coping with
Structural Change in a Dynamic Economy, dated December 16, 1980, (3067a-TH).
The main conclusion of these reports is that the industrial sector in Thailand
has now reached a stage where further impetus to efficient growth in the
present domestic and international environment requires an imaginative policy
response involving structural adjustments and reorientation. While recog-
nizing the good performance of the sector in the past, the reports indicate
that the current situation in Thailand is characterized by relatively high
levels of import protection, inadequate incentives for export-oriented
industries, high concentration of industrial investment in Bangkok and the
Central region and a bias in the system of investment incentives towards
large and capital-intensive projects over small and labor-intensive
industries.



- 11 -
31.       To reorient industrial investment, a phased program of tariff
reductions and improved incentives for manufactured exports has been recom-
mended. As a start, tariff rates should be reduced to no more than 50%
and steps should be taken to gradually reduce them over the next four years to
a target level of 20%. Simultaneously, nontariff protection should be
eliminated and surcharges abolished. On the export side, the system of
rebating import duties and business taxes should be imporved to allow full
compensation in a simplified manner. The administration of export credit
needs to be expanded and made more effective. On the basis of the sector work
already completed, the Bank has further suggested a wide range of measures to
reorient the incentive system for industrial investment. These suggestions
relate principally to the reduction in incentives for import of machinery
because they favor capital intensity, a general strengthening of the Board of
Investment which is the government agency responsible for providing incentives
to selected industries and, particularly, automaticity in the application of
the investment promotion system in place of the present decision-making on a
case-by-case basis.
32.       Considerable sector and subsector work addressing these issues has
already been done or is under way and more is planned, both by the Government
and the Bank. A UNDP-financed project (with the Bank as the Exetcuting Agency)
is studying investment incentives and sectors for promotion. A Subcommittee
for Industry set up under the Finance Minister is coordinating separate
studies on regional development, industry and energy, industrial taxation,
foreign investment and technology transfer, a tax rebate system for export
promotion, investment incentives, credit for small-scale industry, tax
incentives for energy saving and employment generation, etc. The Subcommittee
has completed its report on industrial policy, the main elements of which are
consistent with the Bank-s recommendations given above; these will now form
the basis of the industrial strategy to be included in the Fifth Five-Year
National Economic and Social Development Plan, currently under preparation.
B. The Financial Sector
The Structure and Growth of Financial Institution
33.       The organized financial sector comprises the Bank of Thailand,
commercial banks, finance companies, the Government Savings Bank, insurance
companies, specialized financial institutions and pawn shops. Commercial
banks account for about 53% of the total assets of the entire organized
financial sector. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) comes next with about 23%
share. The finance companies, which are essentially short-term money market
companies, occupy third position with a 12% share in total assets. The
total assets of the entire financial system have grown about six-fold during
1970-79 from about B 81 billion ($4.05 billion) to about B 487 billion
($24.35 billion) while GDP grew about four-fold during the same period.



- 12 -
34.       Commercial banking dominates the financial sector in Thailand.
During the 1970s the number of branches of commercial banks more than doubled
from about 650 in 1970 to 1,400 in 1979. During the same period, the total
assets of all commercial banks increased at an average annual rate of about
22% to about B 260 billion ($13 billion) at the end of 1979. Historically,
Thai commercial banks have remained quite liquid although there was a
deteriorating trend from 1972 which reached its lowest point at the end of
1979. During this period, advances and loans of commercial banks increased
at an annual rate of about 24% compared with an increase in deposits at the
rate of only 20%. However, liquidity improved in the first half of 1980 as a
result of higher interest rates, which contributed to a decline in lending
and higher deposit inflow. The growth of the operations of domestic
commercial banks has been much higher than that of the foreign banks, which
are restricted in their operations, particularly with respect to their
domestic deposit gathering activities. The assets of the foreign commercial
banks are therefore drawn heavily from offshore borrowings.
35.       The growth of finance and securities companies, which obtain their
funds through issuance of their own papers and lend for practically any
purpose, has been phenomenal. The first such company was established in
1964; 10 years later there were 114 such companies. The number increased to
129 by the end of 1979. These companies typically engage primarily in short-
term papers and stock exchange business. Most finance and securities
companies are relatively small; 71 companies, or 55% of the total, have
networth of less than B 40 million ($2 million). In terms of total assets,
68% of the total companies have assets not exceeding B 500 million ($25 mil-
lion) each. The growth of finance and securities companies received a set-
back in 1979 when, as a result of excessive speculation on the stock
exchange, one of the big companies became bankrupt. As a result, the stock
exchange prices broke sharply and emergency measures had to be taken to
stabilize the situation. The Government has also taken steps to regulate the
finance and securities companies more closely.
36.       None of the specialized financial institutions accounts for more
than 5% of the total assets of the financial system. The Government Savings
Bank is the principal governmental vehicle for mobilizing small savings. Time
and savings deposits are the main form in which resources are mobilized, and
purchase of Government securities is the major use of the funds. The Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, on the other hand, is essentially
used as a resource allocation mechanism for the agricultural sector. Its
resources are principally drawn from deposits from commercial banks,
rediscounts at BOT, and its capital which is provided by the Government. The
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT) is the only institution
providing long-term capital to the private industrial sector. Its assets
amount to less than 1% of the total assets of the organized financial system
and its disbursements to less than 2% of the gross capital formation in the



- 13 -
industrial sector. Mortgage banking and life insurance are stilL not
important in Thailand. Although the activity on the stock exchange has
increased rapidly since 1975, when the new stock exchange was established,
the capital market still represents the least developed aspect of the overall
financial sector in Thailand. Total valuation of all 125 million listed
shares as of December 31, 1979 was about B 21.4 billion ($1.07 billion). The
bond and debenture markets are still in the very early stages of development.
Financial Sector Issues
37.       Thailand's financial sector is at a stage where it is facing
increasingly important issues. These relate principally to the financial
incentive system which influences resource mobilization and allocation, and
the development of a more varied and versatile institutional structure to
meet the growing and increasingly complex needs of the Thai economy. The
Bank will undertake an overall Financial Sector Survey beginning in July 1981
which will address these issues, the most important of which are discussed
briefly below.
38.       Interest Rate Structure.  Until 1975, interest rates were fixed by
the Thai Bankers Association; they are now regulated by BOT which prescribes
the maximum lending and deposit rates. In the past, the interest rate
structure was notable for its rigidity in that the rates changed little
despite significant fluctuations in the rate of inflation, because of the
Government-s failure to raise interest rate ceilings. The result has been
that the real lending rate for general industrial loans became negative in
1973/74 and again in 1979. Positive real lending rates prevailed in all the
other years, varying between 4% and 16%. In the nine-month peri.od January -
September 1980, when inflation shot up again and reached an annual rate of
about 21%, the real interest rate was negative. However, the rate of
inflation is declining and the current projection is that it wi:Ll drop to 16%
in 1981 and decline further to 12% in 1982 and 1983, so that the real lending
rates are expected to be positive again. While BOT was slow to react to the
1973-74 inflationary period, it has been far more responsive to the recent
economic changes. Since October 1979, BOT has increased the maximum lending
rate several times to the present 18% and has also raised the deposit rates
which range beween 8-14% on time deposits of various duration. The actual
lending rates came down in the second and third quarters of 1980 but firmed
up again and, in January 1981, the nominal "prime" was 16.75%. By raising
the interest rate ceiling in response to the changing monetary situation BOT
has allowed the country to move towards a freer interest rate regime based on
market conditions.



- 14 -
39.        In addition to the need to be more responsive to changing economic
conditions, notably inflation, the interest rate structure will have to be
looked at from the point of view of the country-s overall savings and
resource mobilization effort and employment objectives. Historically,
domestic savings mobilization has been quite good, since savings have been at
a level equivalent to 21% of GDP. However, the marginal savings rate has
declined from 22% in 1976 to 16% in 1979, at least partly because of the
erosion in real interest rates in the latter year. The higher interest rates
introduced in 1980 should help to arrest the decline in the marginal savings
rate. Thailand's future investment needs are such that it will have to
improve the domestic savings effort to finance the planned high level of
investment without undue reliance on foreign borrowings. However, the scope
for major adjustment in interest rate levels is limited by the fact that the
Thai financial sector is "open" with the baht fully convertible, and
international monetary developments have a direct and quick impact on the
domestic scene. Domestic interest rates cannot be significantly out of line
with international rates for long periods because the resulting short-term
capital inflows and outflows have pronounced balance of payment effects.
With respect to the employment aspect, there are already some indications of
a bias in favor of capital-intensive projects although there are a number of
factors involved in addition to the interest rates. The effect of the
overall incentive system, including the interest rate, on employment is under
study and Bank staff will discuss this issue with the Government as part of
the continuing dialogue on industrial policy.
40.       Another aspect of the interest rate question is the relationship
between short-term rates and long-term rates. IFCT's present rate is 14.5%,
somewhat lower than the nominal rate for short-term loans from commercial
banks. While the differential between IFCT's interest charges for medium-
and long-term loans and those charged by commercial banks for short-term loans
is probably less than indicated by the current nominal prime rate of commer-
cial banks, several factors do force IFCT to keep its interest rates competi-
tive with those of commercial banks. First, IFCT operates on the basis of
careful appraisal of projects which entails full disclosure on the part of
the borrowers, takes longer processing time, and results in financial condi-
tions being imposed and continuous reporting by borrowers throughout the life
of the loan. These essentials of project lending have sometimes been
regarded by borrowers in Thailand, who are relatively unaccustomed to long-
term borrowing, as costs which outweigh the benefits of long-term loans from
IFCT. Second, because inflation is expected to decline significantly in
1981, borrowers will not accept long-term loans at relatively high interest
rates, particularly since commercial banks traditionally roll over their
short-term loans as a matter of course. IFCT has, in the past, raised its
lending rates whenever it could do so without serious threat of losing busi-
ness and when justified by the cost of its own resources. Since 1976, it has
raised its rates gradually from 10.5% to its current rate of 14.5% (penalty
rate on arrears of up to 3.5% is in addition). Assuming that the inflation
rate continues to decline as projected, IFCT's lending rate is expected to



- 15 -
become positive again after 1981. Throughout its operations, IFCT has also
been able to obtain a reasonable "spread" from a financial prof:Ltability
point of view. IFCT has agreed that it will review its interest: rates with
the Bank at least annually and consult with the Bank before any changes are
made (Section 4.08 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Maturities of financial assets.  Except for IFCT, industrial
financing in Thailand is provided by commercial banks in the form of
short-term loans or straight overdrafts which are renewed or rolled over.
Lengthening the maturities of the assets of the financial systemn would benefit
industrial development but further analysis is needed to determine to what
extent this can be done and what are the most practical measures for
achieving these objectives.
42.       Institutional and other issues.  Interest on deposits with commer-
cial banks is taxed at a flat 10% rate rather than at a graduated rate
applicable to interest on other financial instruments. This has given a
significant advantage to commercial banks over other financial institutions
in raising resources with the result that the development of most other
financial intermediaries and of the capital market has been inhibited. The
only subsector which has grown rapidly in recent years, that of the finance
companies, owes its development to direct affiliation with the commercial
banks. An important issue is therefore how to encourage the rapid
development of other forms of financial intermediation including investment
banking, development of stock and bond markets and mortgage financing. The
regulation and future role of finance companies and the institutional
arrangements for deposit insurance and export credit financing also need to
be studied. The financial sector review will also address the most
appropriate ways of meeting the financial needs of particular sectors (e.g.,
housing, small-scale industry) and of the outlying regions.
C. Bank Operations in Industrial Sector
43.       Except for a small loan ($4.7 million) in 1977 to the Industrial
Estate Authority of Thailand, which has been used satisfactorily, IFCT has
been the only recipient of Bank loans in the industrial sector. The first
loan of $2.5 million to IFCT was made in 1963 and has been fully repaid. The
Second and Third loans of $12.0 million and $25 million, respectively, were
made in 1974 and 1976. IFCT's performance under these loans has been satis-
factory. No project audit has become due in this sector. The industrial
sector has become increasingly important in the overall economic development
of Thailand, and this irportance is expected to increase even further in the
future. Considerable industrial sector work has already been done by the
Government and the Bank and more is under way and planned for the near future.
In the continuing dialogue between the Bank and the Government on development
policies, particular focus is being given to industrial sector issues.



- 16 -
The proposed loan to IFCT should be regarded as an interim operation until a
more integrated approach to industrial lending can be evolved on the basis of
sector and subsector work. The proposed loan would support the continuing
institutional strengthening of IFCT and provide needed long-term capital to
IFCT to support the Government's industrial objectives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
The Proposed Loan and Its Features
44.       The proposed loan of $30 million would be the Bank's fourth loan to
IFCT. The loan would help meet part of IFCT's resource needs over the next
two years. In addition to the objective of fostering industrial growth
generally, specific provision has been made in the design of the project to
support IFCT's objectives in support of the Government's emerging industrial
strategy (paragraphs 47 and 61). The project was appraised in March with
subsequent discussion in the field in September 1980. Loan negotiations were
held in Washington in January 1981. The Government's delegation was led by
H.E. Khun Prok Amranand, Ambassador to the United States, and the IFCT team
was led by Khun Aswin Kongsiri, Senior Vice President.  A Staff Appraisal
Report dated February 10, 1981 (No. 3206a-TH), dealing in detail with the
industrial and financial sectors and IFCT's organization, operations,
financial condition and prospects, is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. Loan and project data are given in Annex III.
45.          The loan proceeds will be used to finance the cost of selected
subprojects. Disbursements will be at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported goods and services, 65% (representing the
foreign exchange component) of the cost of goods purchased from domestic
suppliers or manufacturers, and 35% (representing the foreign exchange
component) of civil works. However, for those subprojects located more than
100 km from Bangkok, where the foreign exchange component is expected to be
quite low, IFCT may request financing for 100% of its subloan, up to a maxi-
mum of 50% of total subproject costs, including some local cost financing.
IFCT will seek the Bank's prior approval for all subloans greater than $1
million (Section 2.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). At the request of
IFCT, the loan will have a fixed amortization schedule. A period of 15 years
including a grace period of 4 years has been agreed. While repayment of
subloans is expected to be complete in about 12 years (maturities are
expected to average 8-10 years), the Government has requested that the loan
be made for 15 years in order to generate some counterpart local currency for
IFCT in support of its policy to increase lending to smaller-scale
industries. The proposed 4-year grace period is in line with expected loan
disbursements. IFCT's standard lending rate (currently 14.5%) would apply to
the subloans financed from the proposed Bank loan.



- 17 -
Institutional Aspects of IFCT
46.       Although IFCT was set up by governmental legislation, it is mostly
privately owned. Its initial paid in capital of B 6.1 million ($305,000)
has been periodically increased, and as of December 31, 1979, amounted to
B 400 million ($20 million). In recent years, its ownership has become
increasingly broad-based, with about one quarter of the total capital now held
by shareholders holding less than 10,000 shares each.
47.       The IFCT Act defines its main objectives as financing of the private
industrial sector and mobilization of resources, including the development of
the capital market. A Policy Statement adopted by the Board of Directors
guides its day to day operations. It limits IFCT-s borrowing powers,
restricts the level of its exposure to a single client, limits equity
investments in a single enterprise and in total, and contains other guidelines
for financial prudence. It also lays down the criteria for loaLn operations.
In order to increase its responsiveness to the country's developmental needs,
IFCT has adopted a Statement of Development Strategy which will guide its
operations over the next 2-3 years. It identifies specific priorities which
IFCT intends to pursue in line with the Government's sectoral objectives;
namely, (i) projects located outside the Greater Bangkok and surrounding
areas; (ii) smaller rather than large projects; (iii) export-oriented
projects; and (iv) labor-intensive projects. It also emphasizes pollution
control and energy saving and development. IFCT will monitor progress in
achieving the objectives set out in the Statement of Development Strategy and
has agreed to exchange views with the Bank in this regard (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
48.       IFCT-s Policy Statement also prohibits it from assum-Lng a foreign
exchange risk on its borrowings. A Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement with the
Government covers IFCT against unfavorable movements of exchange rates.
Under the Agreement, IFCT is required to make a provision of 1' of the out-
standing loan amounts and to credit a Government account in its own books with
an amount equal to 0.25-0.60% as a fee for the exchange risk cover - no pay-
ment is actually made by IFCT. In case of an actual loss, it is offset first
against the accumulated fee account and then against the provision made by
IFCT. Any further loss is reimbursed by the Government to be subsequently
repaid by IFCT at nominal terms; in fact, the provision has proved largely
adequate and not until 1979 was it necessary for the Government to cover any
losses.
49.       IFCT-s Board of Directors comprises 10 members, one of whom is
nominated by the Government and is customarily elected Chairman. The other
nine members are elected by the shareholders. The Board takes an active
interest in IFCT's operations. An Executive Committee consisting of four
members, including the Chairman and IFCT-s President, has authority to approve
loans up to B 20 million and screens other loans before they are presented to
the full Board. The President was recently given the authority to approve
loans up to B 5 million, principally to expedite small loans for projects
located in the outlying provinces. The President, with the help of two Senior



- 18 -
Vice Presidents, is responsible for day-to-day management.  IFCT's staff is
generally well-qualified and experienced. Although the present organization
structure is working reasonably well, it is characterized by too many hierar-
chal positions with some units comprising 2-3 professionals only. At the
senior management level, the position of Executive Vice President is still
vacant. At the junior and middle levels, there are pockets of overstaffing
indicating a need for personnel redeployment. IFCT realizes these
organizational weaknesses. A new Organization Section has recently been
established to review IFCT's organization in view of its increasing responsi-
bilities and changing operational priorities. Several proposals for stream-
lining procedures have already been introduced and the organizational struc-
ture is being reviewed.
50.        IFCT's appraisal and supervision policies and practices are
generally satisfactory. Appraisals adequately take into account financial,
economic, engineering and marketing aspects, and calculations of financial
and economic rates of return are standard practices. However, the shortening
of subloan maturities in recent years has been accompanid by an increase in
arrears indicating that cash-flows may be projected over-optimistically.
IFCT is giving closer attention to this in its appraisals. Also, IFCT is
giving increased attention to the choice of technology and manufacturing
process because of the increasing concern with employment generation in the
industrial sector. For the same reason, IFCT also proposes to refine its
economic rate of return calculations by using separate shadow wage rates for
different regions of the country.
51.        IFCT's procurement policies and practices are satisfactory.  They
aim to ensure that the most appropriate machinery and equipment is procured
at the best possible price, all factors considered. For items costing more
than $400,000 equivalent, IFCT normally requires international competitive
bidding. If exceptions such as turnkey contracts and joint ventures are
allowed for projects involving a proprietary process, performance guarantees
are obtained with suitable penalty provisions. For items costing less than
$400,000, IFCT requires "international shopping" which normally means that
three comparative quotations are obtained and analyzed. For machinery items
costing less than $200,000, the requirement of at least three quotations is
less strictly applied. In 1979, international shopping was used for 42
projects (B 689 million), international bidding for 1 project (B 50 million)
and turnkey contract for two projects (B 41 million).
IFCT's Operations and Financial Condition
52.        IFCT's operations showed a significant increase in 1978 and 1979
when loan approvals amounted to B 866 million and B 1,210 million respec-
tively.  Loan approvals in 1980 are estimated at B 1,100 million.  Foreign
exchange accounts for about two-thirds of total loans. The average size of
loans has shown an increasing trend, rising from B 13 million in 1975 to B 23
million in 1979. While IFCT provides finance to medium and large enterprises,
IFCT also has an important role to play in financing smaller projects (i.e.,
those costing less than B 20 million) and intends to give them increasing



- 19 -
emphasis in its operations. With this objective in mind, IFCT has agreed
to use at least one-third of the proposed loan for subloans of less than
$500,000 each, to borrowers with total fixed assets not exceeding $5
million (Section 2.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). No indLividual
subloan would exceed $5 million (Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
53.       The sectoral distribution of IFCT-s operations is satisfactory with
no one industrial sector or subsector having received a disproportionate
share. However, the regional distribution is highly in favor of Bangkok and
the Central region, which together account for about 80% of the total loans,
a proportion similar to the geographic distribution of overall industrial
investment in Thailand. Since better regional distribution of industry is
an important government objective, IFCT intends to give increasing attention
to regionally-based industries. It has set up a Regional Activities
Development Center as a separate department to spearhead and coordinate all
actions relating to lending for projects located outside Bangkok and the
Central region. IFCT's three branch offices in Lampang, Khon Kaen and
Songkhla are being strengthened and experienced staff from the Head Office
will make more frequent visits to the regions.
54.       IFCT-s total assets have grown at an average annual rate of 22%,
and amounted to B 3.2 billion as of December 31, 1979. The loan portfolio
is obviously the single biggest item amounting to B 2.5 billion. The equity
portfolio amounted to about 6% of the total. Long-term borrowings have
financed the assets to the extent of 72%. The long-term debt to equity
ratio at the end of 1979 was 3.5:1, well within the 6:1 limit set by its
Policy Statement and agreed with the Bank. Operationally, IFCT has been
reasonably profitable. The return on equity for 1979 was 9.1%. Although
profits have increased almost every year, the return on equity has shown a
declining trend because of faster growth rate of equity resulting from an
increase in paid-in capital and a high proportion of net profit being
retained. IFCT declared dividends of 11.5% in both 1978 and 1979.
55.       IFCT's arrearages have shown a deteriorating trend in the last few
years. As of end-1979, total arrears amounted to 9.6% of the outstanding
portfolio and the principal amount affected by arrears amounted to about 20%
of the total. A disturbing feature is that loans past due for more than 12
months make up the bulk of the total.  The reasons for the high arrears are
many and include the generally tight liquidity situation in 1979, a less than
effective penalty interest charged by IFCT until recently, a very rapid
increase in IFCT-s operations in 1978-79 with the result that the supervision
effort lagged behind the portfolio buildup, and, as pointed out earlier,
possibly overoptimistic estimation of clients  cash flows at the time of
appraisals.  In view *f the high arrears, IFCT prepared, at Bank's request,
an action program to reduce the level of arrears over the next: several years.
It was reviewed by Bank staff and considered satisfactory; it is now being
implemented. The action plan includes both short-term as well as long-term
measures. Instructions have already been issued to the appraiLsal staff to be
more realistic in estimating cash flows and to provide more liberal



- 20 -
amortization and grace periods. Supervision staff has been increased and
procedures, particularly for field visits, streamlined. Projects already in
default have been subdivided into three categories according to the nature
of the problems and their severity with appropriate types of action planned
for each category. IFCT has not hesitated to start legal proceedings when
other means failed. The penalty interest rate has also been increased in
response to the increase in the maximum interest rate IFCT has been autho-
rized to charge. As a result of all these measures, the arrears situation
is improving and is expected to show further significant improvement in 6-18
months. IFCT has agreed to keep the Bank informed of progress in reducing
arrears (Section 4.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
The Role and Developmental Impact of IFCT's Operations
56.       While commercial banks and finance companies are dominant in the
financial sector, IFCT continues to be the only specialized long-term indus-
trial financing institution in Thailand. These other financial institutions
also tend to cater to the needs of larger and well-established companies
while IFCT provides financing for relatively smaller firms and new industria-
lists. IFCT's effort in financing new projects (as opposed to providing
finance for modernization and/or expansion of existing enterprises), has been
particularly noteworthy. More than 70% of the number of projects financed
in the last three years were new enterprises; in terms of the amount of
loans, about 60% is accounted for by new enterprises. Between 1975-78,
IFCT's disbursements ranged from 0.9% to 3.4% of gross fixed capital
formation in industrial machinery and equipment and private nonresidential
construction; in 1979 IFCT's market share thus defined came to 2.6%. IFCT
is also having a positive impact on some aspects of the Thai economy through
its influence on its subsidiary and affiliated companies, Thai Factory
Development, Thai Orient Leasing Company and Thai Mutual Fund Company which
are the only companies of their kind in the country. IFCT was very actively
involved in helping to set up the new stock exchange, and also helps the
Government in appraising and arranging financing for large projects of
national importance. It participates in several governmental committees
dealing with industrial policy formulation and financing. It undertakes
industrial research studies and publishes the results. Noteworthy among
recent studies by IFCT are specific subsector studies that it undertook as
the executing agency in Thailand for the Institute of Developing Economics,
Japan. Considering all direct and indirect aspects, the qualitative impact
of IFCT and its operations on the Thai economy has been considerably more
significant than is measureable in terms of its level of lending.
57.       IFCT undertakes the calculation of financial rates of return for
its projects; economic rates of return are calculated for those projects
where IFCT's loan amount is B 10 million or more.  For projects approved in
1978 and 1979, the weighted economic rate of return was 42% and 29%
respectively; the weighted financial rate of return was 17% and 18%
respectively for the two years. As indicated by these measures, IFCT's
investments have been productive and profitable. Recent project approvals



- 21 -
have two outstanding characteristics with regard to their economic impact:
their increased degree of export-orientation and their greater utilization of
domestic raw materials. While export sales averaged only 17% of total
incremental annual sales over the period 1974-78, in 1979 the share of exports
increased to 41%.  Once full capacity production is reached, the amount of
domestic raw materials used by projects approved in 1978 and 1979 would amount
to B 1,834 million and B 1,782 million, respectively.
58.        The employment impact of IFCT's financing has also been quite
significant. Over the last five years the 240 projects approved by IFCT are
estimated to have created nearly 34,000 jobs; in the past two years alone
about 17,000 new jobs are estimated to have been provided by 95 projects
approved by IFCT. During the 1975-79 five-year period, the cost per job
created was, on an average, $21,310, which is lower than the average for the
projects approved by the Board of Investment.
Prospects and Resource Requirements
59.        IFCT regards its B 1.2 billion ($60 million) in loan approvals in
1979 as exceptionally strong and estimated 1980 approvals at B 1.1 billion
which according to preliminary figures has been met. It is projecting
increases of B 100-150 million annually thereafter. Loan operations at the
projected levels will give IFCT a share of the market (industrial machinery
and equipment) which will be towards the lower end of its historical record
and are therefore quite conservatively estimated. To meet its projected loan
operations, IFCT is planning to borrow B 2.8 billion equivalent in foreign
currency and B 2.3 billion in domestic currency in the five-year period,
1980-84. The proposed $30 million loan would meet a part of these
requirements. Other sources IFCT intends to tap include ADB, KfW, OECF
(Japan) and direct borrowings from the international capital markets. On the
basis of its recent success in raising funds from international capital
markets (Y 3.5 billion in Japan in 1979 and S$30 million in Singapore in
1980), IFCT is confident that it will be able to borrow again from the capital
markets. IFCT will, however, find it more difficult to raise the needed
domestic currency resources. Of the B 2.3 billion needed, B 600 million is
expected to be provided by BOT; the sources of the remaining B 1.7 billion are
still unspecified. IFCT may borrow in the foreign market to help meet its
domestic currency requirements but has agreed that it will give priority to
raising funds to cover its domestic currency requirements in the domestic
market (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The Government has
agreed that it will actively support IFCT in its efforts to raise new
resources (Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
60.        IFCT's total assets are projected to increase at an annLual rate of
18% and to amount to B 8.4 billion at the end of 1984. While still
remaining within the conzractual limit of 6:1, the long-term debt: to equity
ratio will increase; this, in turn, would increase the return on equity which
is projected to improve gradually to 15% in 1984. Debt service coverage is
expected to remain satisfactory.



- 22 -
Justification and Risks
61.       IFCT is unique in Thailand providing, as it does, medium- and long-
term funds for industrial development on the basis of sound project appraisal
techniques. It works closely with the Government in the formulation of an
industrial development strategy and reviews itsown operations to ensure that
they are consistent with that strategy. In its recently adopted Statement of
Development Strategy, IFCT has agreed to give emphasis in its operations to
projects which support the Government's regional dispersal, employment gene-
ration, export promotion and energy conservation objectives which will form
the thrust of the industrial development strategy of the Fifth Economic and
Social Development Plan. The proposed loan will help IFCT meet its objectives
by providing a part of the new resources needed for subloans to be committed
over the next two years. The proposed loan does not pose any special risks
given IFCT-s demonstrated competence in project appraisal and its sound
financial position.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial
Finance Corporation of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.  Special features
of the loan are referred to in the text and listed in Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1981



- 23 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILARD - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEJI AVERP4CES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            514.0
AGRICULTURAL     179. 6                               HOST RECENT          MIDDLE LlCOME            FIDDLE INCOMF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AME]ICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       220.0     590.0                1114.7                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      64.0       247.0     327.0                842.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     26.4        35.7      44.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5        13. 2     14. 1                39.1                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       103.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       51. 0       69.0      88. 0               376. 1                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0       251.0     251.0                2350.4                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.7        46.2      43.4                 40.4                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.6        50.8      53.6                 56.2                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         3.0       3.0                  3.4                      3.9
POPULATION GRGCUTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.0       2. 7                 2.4                      2.7
URBAN                              4.6         3.7       3.6                   4.1                     4. 1
CRUDE BIRTHl RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0        44. 0     32. 0                28. 7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     17.0        12.0       8.0                  7.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       2. 2                  1.9                     2. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOT7SANDS)      ..       203. 0/c   644.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         27.4      40.0                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          92.0       100.0     134.0                116.9                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   96.0       103.0    105.0/d               108.9                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRARS PER DAY)          43.0        50. 0     49. L/d              60.3                     65. 6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       10.0        15.0      14. O/d              18.8                     33. 7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     15.0         9.0       6.0                  5.3                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0         57.0      61.0                 63.0                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        86. e/e   68.0                 52.8                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      22.0                 42.4                     65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      49.0                 62.1                     80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      12.0                 29.7                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               . .       17.0      40.0                 52.8                     62.3
URBAN                               ..        65.0      58.0                  71. 1                   79.4
RURAL                               ..         8.0      36.0                 42.4                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7800.0      8420.0   8169.0                4120.1                   1849.2
POPULAT1ON PER NURSING PERSON     4900.0      3340.0   3542.0                2213.6                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1351. 0/f    880.0     816.0                819.4                    480.3
URBAN                               ..       350.0
RURAL                               ..      1136.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0      33.0                 28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5/f       5.8       5.5
URBAN                              5.3/f       5.9       5.5
RURAL                              5.6/f       5.8       5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..       2.4
URBAN                               ..          ..       2.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..        63. 0/       .
RURAL                                         13. 0



- 24 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TSAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGNTED AVW.GES
- llOST RECECT lSTIMATE)
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMlERICA & CARIDRJAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        81.0       83.0                   98.6                    99.7
MALE                 88.0         35.0      86.0                   99.2                    101.0
FEKALE               79.0         77.0      79.0                   97.7                     99.4
SECONDARYi  TOTAL                  13.0        17.0       27.0                  55.5                      34.4
MALE                  16.0        20.0      28.0                   60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                10.0        14.0      20.0                   49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    19.0          24.0      13.0                   13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-rEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        35.0       30.0                  34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                          20.0        16.0       21.0                   28.5                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        68. 0        79.0      84.0                   85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         5. 0       6.4                    9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0        78.0      131.0                  118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.3         7.0       18.0                  39.4                     84.2
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        24.0        ..                     ..                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        1. 7                  4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13529.2      16658.8   20985.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   48.3        47.3       48'. 0                36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.7        79.9       77.0                   51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.4         6.0        8.0                  21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3        46.6       45.6                   39.1                     31.5
HALE                                 52.7        49.3       48.6                  48.5                     48.9
FEIOALE                              49.8        43.9       42.6                   29.6                    14. 0
ECONCMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1       1.0                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8/h       23.8 i    14.0                      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9/h       49. 7i    42.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.21h        6.1/i    7.6.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9.L       15.9/i   19.1/l
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      159.0
RURAL                                ..          ..      106.0                 192.1                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      115.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      110.0                 182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOU ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       15.0
RURAL                                * -                  34.0                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/    The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year b.t-e.n 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Government program only; /d 1976; /e 1964-65; /f 1962; _S Percent of population In Bangkok metropolitan
area; /h 1962-63; /L  1968; /1 Preliminary data for 1975-76; due to lack of data on national basis, the
methodology for aggregating the available regional data overstates incomes of low income groups and under-
states incomes of higher income groups. Thus, this data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other dats are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



25 -                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SfO1IA. ONDIGATORS
Noten:  Although tedataar  dra. . fro  source. ge.erall  judged the mea   nthorttile  and reliable, it shenid also he noted that they 'sy set be Inte-
natInaly cmpaohiebocune  I  he loch of studarid defitefinen  And conpts nee  by diffeen  co-eertee Is collettieg the dta.  The deta are, none-
shls,ueu   odenoriheorder  ofegiua,ldot  trends, and ehartertee                        t.nie  eo    iffrncshtneen netrin..
The reeecegop   are (1)1 -tc .e.es  outoy group of the suhjeot coun.try and (2) a ocoury grou.p nith nvnewhat higher aegeiscome thee the o-ntry greap
of the  uhetonsry  (en_pfr "aItel SuoPl- Oil REporters0 group where 'Middle I-on  North Afrit- end Middle fEet" Is  h.esen h..anse .g stronger
eeouloaafffeltrias)   In the referse ge.     u  data the averges. are pnpulsttes   teihe          t-ei   et   n  eah idoeeend aheav nnly wh.. at
leat half0  the  Ionie    ma  gr-up hen d            -a  a  that iedioatoc.  Stone the ceVerega ef centrieaon  the indicators.. depvdue  the  -rilbiltihyu
datae  Is nor ..if.-m,  -nuo-   _ot 'o- eaeni-d iv rs.iattgaveegea  fi ensindtnetr teeter rheae. u_erage  are aeY  ..efI in o-parieg the vales
aeindinatec at a tine amog the no-try end reference groups.
toAs ARsni (tho-sed sq.be)                                                                    PeultieOr Hote-Iepolatisn dividau hy atase  Os peeceicing phy-
Tntel - Totl srf c   cscpitglnd araadilndwtr.T ises eneif tad, tres  a  edca-shood                                                         vnieiylvl
Agra   lue      uiaoa gricutealure  uedtenperuiy erperaently                                PrI-stine pee NR.i'       aso        eplsa  divided hp naber at prutacing
foe crpe, pastures, marhet sad kitchee gardess or in  its faill; 1977 data,                   I saeand irsal  grdute  use   pvectical           enae   ed assistantures
GNP PER CAPITA  IJS$) - GNP p., -pit. -ti     ~Po...istien Pec eseitt  edI  tatl. aehen. send  -es  - Ppalatien  (tetl.1
top ~tn lolOld It))) - 11fF rec tapito r tlte  at ..nerot sachet pslss ...a.l-      urban. ned rura) divdedb  their rfn~v   ubra   aptlbd
nuaedh  uae  nvenuntcio  asgrdat   tlas  (1977-1  bs);1960,                                   swilalle is public asd prIvate  heca.udsettle                  epitat.  end re-
170, and  199dt.bhilitetirncnee.gsicl   r  mtbtlbsets pemently staffed
ENERG  CC~NU .MPION PR CAPILA   Ann  1 ,.n-pti. If  - W  .. rgyby at 1e-t en  physirian.  Etstsltnhbetn- Preidi ngprgaeips11y  -utedial
tiefhT CODOMPTIT P11CAPIT  - kenel onsuetias  f cessortil enegy (nal    ere are set included.  R-r1 hospitals, hees.incede health  ed aedisal
and ligfite   Potralen, matnca1 gas ad hydec-. .. Iulaened geatbeena  alec-                   restera sat p-ree tnl  stuffed by a physician  (hut bly a sdisal sasistn,
tricity) iv kilegr-  af  -1u equivalnt Per- capita;l9R 19 10,xO, and 1970Buse   idwife, ete.) whioh etfe  in-petient a-esseaieentpsrd
iota,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of seediest fatuities.  Fn. statistical purpess  arban hospi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS  ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        tls. include WOOs Po.inties  gensca) and epetistised hospital.  and ne1
POTI.At10  Ol)tiTA. SKAid-Y..A.fGl                                                             hospitals leo1 nOr ru-   hespitals annditel end eaterety  cetr.
TotalPaoaetiu. Ifd-Tec loillies)-A   fP    1; 19612. 1910, end 1978                 Adeatene2  rr goritvl Bed -  nTel. nanbr nf admisi..s to c  diseharges
dues,                                                              iron basp~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.,itals dtvided by the e'b-n af bade.
Ilrba  PoPulation (Poreat of total)   Ratio  f urban na tota  popuetien;
diNffesne deinitians of urban aren  mey affect cnp-raility of data                     gltyniN
__s outries; 19610, 1970, and 1978 datu.                                              Aveag   ishf tnub.d(eros               .e bohold) - tantl,rbV            . ad real
Porulutta   rloie                                                                             A househo;ld cnitatagnp ~n indi.del  eho  hore liviu  quatters
Poonlnionin ysr 100 - Curroet populetine  projenginis are hosed no 1980              and their mete sel,A boarder or lodge  say yr say not be included in
total popalniton by age avd ur  sod their enctulity and fertility rates.                 tho hausehold far statisegoal purpa..er.
Prejectios purne    -s  o  m-tlity rates cprcaf thrse levlsa1 wa                       A-ar-genuboro   es            o   om   Itotl, aches, and  msral - dVrarga  ea
lag life. eaPota..cY at birch  ioeun         ith casry' aPee en pita  n- boos            hr a             Pose   pr rant In al  nrh. -IA ou-a  socpted o etsa
leve, ad fmet  lie cP_oc,cutbllulni         a   7.5 cents.  The p.re-             doles   epciey                 nllg    if    ntpeeetsrcue   n
neenf or fertti,ip  cusv  lsa hov  the  ivl    saisg decline is                      ...o..npied puret.
frtility an-rdisg ta innerleelan  past feaily planting psrforma,e                     A.a... en TEn.triito (p      Ceto  dwellngs  -Mne.' urban  end vu-l-
tEchnuty isten           sgssd oeo  those nine anebtitinos of macentity                  Convetca   wlig    ih  icrot   nlvn   qato   sprevf
edfertility treds tar projoctise purpose.                                              otta,ub,aecrtdeig rsptIvey
Ste-tinnary Poeu1agioo-inan tationaey population there in -a geothi amos                                 b.   .d-             dlig.f.           r-
the birth rate it equal In the detb rats, and also the age structure Ie-    EDUCATITON
me. tns oetast.  Ibis is achievd only after fergility eatesde-lin- to                   dntdioolstRtn
therepereasilevl ounttsot  nproductian rare., eh.. saa  gesais                    Ptmr   col-              ,sl  and femal  - Gross tentel, maleend female
of eases replace  irsaif sncly .  Tha  eetasa.ry papalasien eisawsectua   feise   ttepime   ee.sprengeo   np~n
astieated an1b ibsheals ateh .pr.jo.ted ch-raterietI- of the populelue                      peisap  ooo-aepopalattan-   n            lyinoludes childre  aged 6-it
to the year 2000, and tho rate af declins of fertility ratei tepas                          years but  tjegd fec dig feotinthu     pelafry ed...tIfn; fec
Yan  level.                                                                                  can..trios with unvra       rdctis .e.e..ltent seep enend 100 Percent
Yea -tteiesny" popalatien latst rahod - The year when statin-t  ppulngion                    since san  pupils se  hle  or above the official scheol age.
ate- bee been reached.                                                                    Secodar  school - ttgel. maead rI Cle -lopuied as shws  scadary
FPorultiun Deonity                                                                                doturqie   olatfu   easo   prvdpieyioeein
Per an. knn. - Otid-ye-  pcpulatioa pee  q..am  kilntecr (100 beaseren) repcis    eea,neianet, i notechr  trainteg.  pinstyncitstfsrpoib
Pe t.  a   siutrlln      np da   hr   o tgecoruulled.sull  a f 12 en 17 peara at  ge;  --pr-9ed-n                                                  ...' ore  eve. gosraIly
only.Vocaionalenrolment(perentb-.nefnda yS-iTec1ttsaalnstittion
Pnonlatioe Agn Stirutire (rcoone  - Thildeas (I-!l years). enkiig-ege  (l)                      i'nctd  tcona,id-triai,r ethrypraese  w                        io aprat    dpn
hA yers),end  etird (6   ae   e   et   spreegsa   t-eepp-                                denely or us ide.pariats ef .....sdny institsti-ne.
latnce;'19;1, 1970, and 1978 daca.                                                          Ppu-coto   eg      ecer.ndsonuy- Tota  students ene1lld in
CpnaieGothRt   pret         )    o- etl-Asa   rwhreeo   e    nid-                           gmaY end saceeder  level  divided by nubere of teachers is the
yerpopulations..o fl-o   965-7ind19707.                                                    cerre.sp_dieg leel.i
Neusie  rwhRte (percent) -  rbee  A-..Ina  growth rates of urban pnpn-               Malt literay rate (rr.I-t,  -Literate  ednits (eblb  to read and -it.)
latins  or  950hi,191-Il7, end 191075-                                                    spoer..etngocIf total adaIt popuinti-n Aged 15 yers and over.
Crude Birth gate (car tha..sand) - Annua live birtbs pee thousand af id-yenr
pepsluni-;t1960, 1970, an-d 1918 dsta..                                                 NO5gIPTION
Goods Deathat  (per thonud) - Annual deetha pee thossned vf mid-ysnr                        PeAsss .r - tasfe        aednriatina)-P...o.g.   cars- -apeise mater
pepuncio; 190,  971,and  SOfdete                                   ear  neting len  than eight per..s..        oneaobmaee  heeress and
Rras  goo-utin  Rtate-Averag   nube  of deughtoos  sema  sill bane in                      millterp  sicles.
be   otalrpodcie   eidtOseenainespeet  g-pal sfe-               Rdi  teivr    petosadpeluir  -altp-hfreevr  feed
tilitr rats  usaly fiv-  a   vEe    enin  in 1960, 1970  ned1917.                            racsse   ese  pbi   e   hnada   apttn;acae                                si
Faml  Plaeinga- Ac...etne. Annual fthe..a.nds( - A-sua  -nb-e of a..oaptare                   brensdo...eivorsg.. ri contiesue  in ysars whe  es tins ef radio  e
ofbirth-nnitni1 dnvi-e  under asin   f-naional fanily planing progrem.                    we   aefr;dt   o   eetynt   a   n   oeneai   msse
Family Plan        .nc.conn-fmrid  oa)-Pretaeo   aidontriss abolshed' Iteei.                                                 g
woe   f  hl-haig  g   1-Ad pasts) who at  birib-tonroldvcsi                               FRnies(prioen   vuain  IS                         erlna  r  hsd...t so
alecind  sas   nnn   go gonup.                                                         geortpbi  ter tInodppueic                     .cae nIcensed IF...civee.
POOR ANIs  NUTRITONi                                                                            ince-tnios and ii yenc  whee cegiut-tin. of TV .tot  wa  is effoot.
Ind..  f F..d Prd..ti.. -r C-it.   -71-100)                          own-eIne  itnulati   S Por thouan  cealtin)            - Shwstho average circuIt.
ladenof Fod Pudnotns pe laica  1969-10) -  ne   f Pot capita   -1as                 tIes of"aly geea    neetnwppt,dft sd  aaeidinel pab
predclin a  ni  fed.ceendits.Pnde nnlade..n...d end feed end                          licetise devated peineaily in recordinggselee. I   sonies
in en  _0londr pene 1bui.   Com-dti   oves poMary gauds (e.g. sana                      to be "deily" if itapasustmtln  tiesweh
instead of sugar) nhtch ae dible end ...ntol.turientu  (e.g. coffee eod                   Cnm   aniutnec   a   elnoe'orRsda   h                                beo
tea   rosclado).  Agtsgte pnducio  of each coutr  leheede                          tick-t  sold during the year, including  tdmstrst  drie- to ninem
national average prodn...r pric   egts;  d91-61,d970,ild 191.dais
emrgtoqni-nl-o  of etc fend  upplise eviibl  in ton y Penc .Pita                   LAORn FRCEn
per day.  Avoileble auPppite  cnpries domes.tic prodnetin, iepartn less                Intel tuber Pores (thonenade) - toEanloially arrive persons, intludiun
_nprts, and ale_ges Ie  teach.  Net supplien solude neisa  feed, seeds,                  armd frece.n ad nseptoysd bst eneludiegh. boseiv-s  etadae, etc.
quantities usd in fred p....s.ing, und tosses In ditrihati-n  Require-                   Eoiiin
meats were  tonnured byPat hated  n physintaseal veede  oe tarsal art- D1978 dae,  in varius.n.. oi.ie  am  not Ar  pec..L e;9i95, 1970 an
viy  ndhelh co...ideriegsvrwe taltoperasr,body esighte. agp                         aae(ecn)-yml  ao   oc   tpreig    fttllbrfre
end andistrlbatian nf popnlatia, and nll1wisg 10 pFees  for waste so                   Arclurtrst  - taho  fac   nfrin,frsr-    agn   n
ouso hald leel  1516,1970, and 1977 deta.                                                 fishinge   ecetg  of ine  leba  furo; 160. 1970 and B17   ae
_oy  eyhe  suol  of eccei  Scene per day -I Pratnie  -t-en   f par ..Pit.               Indastey (ceren.t) - tLbar fares is  inisig,  cnt,etu safeetnotog
net spply of food per day.. 0ev subpply of fond is deIfind es above.  Re-                 ed aority,etor aed gas as p-eent~ag  If ':tota  labor fetes.; 1960.
qutem-ta fns all caunrteni etabishod by USDA poovide for nisias                           1970 end 1978 data.
ellocane  ci 60 groe  of Itn1 pratiri  per day nod 20 Atsm  of animal ad                PItrni-ci-el   Rate- (pretI          ecl   av  edfml-    Pertitipucian 
FIler prote in, vf  hirh 10 gons should be anie_n  pvatein.  Ths   ta-                   ntvt   ae   r            pid as totl, man, ad tel  leb.r f..o.eas
ards are t-e  thor thaoe of 75 grun  of total posetoi end 2) gra-saPe ...patneonanof eatel, sal  end femle papuletien7 of j ltesrmepaetively;
anmlpotI Ina  avvago for the -rend, prnpa...d by FAI is she Thied               1960, 1900, end 191) dat,1.  The.. are ILl's pertIcIputing raesosletlag
Wr-if Pond Surrey  1961-65, 1970 end 1977 dO.t.                                              -.t..m.ft.pp.i.    dJn   i      .  .I  f                                 l
poer reite  _ntein suecly from oni-l and oulus-  Protein  uPplp of rued So-                 egt-ne  srne f-.tu   of. rh p...    ie  adln   he   ra.A  e    e
rialirn  nhl and pul.e. in gran Par day; 1961-65, 1970 ama1977 faRe.   tEnne.ic Dl....deny Otin - Ratio of papoleti-n aelr lb ead 65 and ee
Child (esih  M-rtality Onto (pee tho...a.d) - Annual deatha Por tbhasod in                    so tha enea  leberfo .
agegeop 1h yoe Int childre  It this age graup; f or-as  developingc -
tgrion. dat  dete  from  life gbe;1960, 1970 and 1977 dnte..INCOME DlISTRIBUTONf
REALTH                                                               ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Parosetaeo  Private  PEcEn  (th In one  and bind) - Received bY riohost
hRAI.TTI(                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~ pecot. richest 70 p-roent, paotne. 20 percent, usd psoreet 40 pete..t
Lill Eopecto  atBrh(eRs) - Aeregs nonber of yoam   nf life renaing                            ofhosol.
atbirh;196, 1970 and 178 dais.
,In.n; Mrait,at m   thblueod  - An..iaI deaths of infants under ... Yea                   POVERTY TAOlRGE  GOnUPS
ofaePee thauneed live.hirth.                                                          Retisted AbsoItut   oee   naetvl(S  prtnt)-shnaderl
Acceot  SueWtr (percnt of noeno.inin) - totl, neban. ed cana  - NL                            Absolute povrty moon  leve  is that laaotI_              hln   ha         iia
Macher of peope (ernel, urbe, end meal) wth twosonabla sones to snf 0 nstIitinmll  udquts diet ploa... se.tlel non-feed roqnirssst  in mat
w  .te,s'ppY lierlude   ten     nraewters or _eenia  but ncnontenietd                    uffn ldsbi         q
watr .u..  an. that f canprotectedrbfesholen,  peings, and .-oita.y wells)a               Esti-atd Retiv- Pursery I-on  Levl-1 occenin   neho  and na
perteetagos o  the it raupo tire populaions.   OnannebnneseapabiteRuI1rel-eeiv-  -oet    om   lee    is  s-third af Paea erpe  capita
f... tei or siedpnst locte  not mars thee1 i t ne t-e   o  a hen-  maY ha                 pev..a.  moons a.P  the cutry.lebac level is derived feem  the   eal
,:oonid ...d ash.aI   ici  resnbe         Ecesa  tht hoose.  In cutst atea                  level nith edjnntnnO  fee higher  -oe  of living in  ebanaras
reaeobisecs   Ied imply that the hon..enife r ebers of nhe house.hold                  REtieatd Pprnlntin  t nlow Abenluca P-vrty Iean  Levl-e.              ei     ra
do s-c hajato spen.d.a dis~prpPeti-nto part cf the day in fetching the                      aed eru   ---eren  of  pp isie(baanvul)wansabltepe"
Ane.ss to O rE-ns Disrn..Aeunofavlie-tlubned
disposa  as Per-tsrges of their respectIve pnpulntjom_.  En-ten  di.-                                                       rE_-ic and Social Data Rivisiss
pael  a  lcid  the  -11-etiln  sad disposal , citb  or without traMet                                                 R nnenir Analysis aed Peajeetism   Repsnmatt
~~~~f h-. -Yth ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eo-b'er 198R
piv prioiet andsila  Inseal1 tIans.



-26-
ANNEX I
Paae 4 of 5
19, 195.28220942-79                       29,  fl         Y. I     4-0    of 0.
r,.-  d-...tc  p-odo-            4,842.8   0. 223.0   12,712.0    1 4,48S.5    s 18.28.9    9.222 2,929 2,2.                        7.?          7.8        7.70                    14.
2.4000tw. Ior-  of l44*           -44.21       42.1     -507. 7     -978. I     1,104.9      1.238. 4   -1 .473.-0   -1942S.8                                                        -2.2
1  ,..d-f.tl  I,n.-             4,799.2    to 06.41,   11,284.9   2S. 107.4    17,020.0   1It.108.    19. 29.9   27P.292. 9        7.2          7.25        7.0          7.0        94,
4.. ... , .                           .4259.9    Z.989.8    2,499.1    4.440.8       4,894.9     2,082.9    S,.440. 4    7 ,507.8        8.86        4.71        4.? I.                   22.2
4. ~~oponre - ..io.e  ~~~-1 .592. 2   -2. 274.8   -2.804. 4   .4. 504.9    -.4,127.9    -2.077.4     5 2,1 2. 1   4,.044.2      9.5          4. 1        8.0         87          24. 2
*porn.-.dI...,.8  for TOT    ~-1,548.9   -2 17.    -2207 -.2.           4048.9    -3.819.0   -4,039. 1   4,081.              7.1          S. 80                   8.          2.
5. f..oorr. o.p -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0:                                    4-
4.To.::  .o.,.90                   5,202.           L,0.0     . '?": '   122,27.2    12.042,4    14.213.4   12,0S.D" 4   20, 721.2     7.2          7.2         4.            .1        74.1
4.   no..(.,o4              2,9~~~~~ ~~~~08.2    2.020.4    2,892.0    4.249.2  4.812,3  2,187.     2,2.I.20                    82         1.3z         7.           72          04.
I (5.  00114001  04100*      .2~~~~~~~~~~74.A    2 200.8    2.477.1 7    2,12.2  2.808. 2 ' 2,0.2    4,011.1    42.8             .4.1                     .8         9421
II    00*2  -"no.  d.41. d.
Dfor TnT                        1,497.2    2,2324.7    2, 492.2    2,227.1       ,4.          ,4.         ,2.          IS,27.       8.                        .           .          22.2
12.  MP%,  1C,,0,,  4                 4,022.9    4,842.2   14,284.2     22.        21.88  .8    2221.2       9,89   2977.               12',7.:                  2.          .
8. S.Co   tuleo
(22,.o.e.of M PI
I.  48nrolt-r                         0.2"I       0.234       0.281     0.281        0.271        0.244       0.238      0.229
7. 4 lmI":                           0204          " 0.22    0.."9      02.24            9        0.204      0.209       0.3
1. 5r4-.                             0.40       0.42        ,420       0.421        0.M          0422       0,42        0.47
?rc.(02-100)
I.  71po1 9010 S.d..4. 4                         44.04       1.4I       09.2         94.21       2114       I22.04  ~ 171.40           1.20.7                   7.2         5.1
2.lpr  91 d.                 477          72        0.2        14.2         120           4.4       19.p1       224.72         7.          4.           .            .
3.To.. of  -rd. fndo                   97.22      01.04        ..I7      78I          78.20        72.4       72.44      72.40        -1.8          .0          8.1
0.  M1 dWIlot   (U2$1                29.2         2.9       102.84     10.82        124,07       28.400     242.29     204.22         5.2          4.8          .           .
A. -I...   -vrK    oh.~.  r.         20.80       20.88       20.40      20.40        20.29
0. Soloorod I.dko.t-                                 2965-77    1977-79    1979-85        kols!.0
2.lo-r  *l-I'l'y                                 2.9        887         09          0.9
3.  A-,oocttnl vt,on,                               0.24        0.22       0.22         0.24
I.lpr.:/84P                                     0.27       0.2         0.24         0.24
=.   "'.to,,tOP02                                             024        0.27         0.28
.   .on.o  o/CO?804                                     084         00           0.02
~~. ~04oot. I..80r forco  2rod..rolt. In 2972   ~~~~~~~~~~                    Lob.r torn. ic                        V.A. -r  -.4., ft 
I.  04r10tull-                                                4.229        21.2                     123.4      72.7                           240        41.5
2.Id,oy                                                        4.442       20.4                       .4         7.210                                  257
1.      IC.440.24                                                          2.                        2.         4.4                         .92        222.4
T7t01..1 ....                                                     I o:.! 2O 7.7                       88.0                           820       40.0
F. P4,11  VI-no. it  GDP) 009      - (Cnrol C _.0       I"          970        2974        1972        2978        297? j,-    2978
C.:-r*t  00                                       2.5        22.8       4.2         2.4        13.4       24.0        14.
2.  To                                              2,          22.2       22.2         220         12.         22.9       22.
1.  Co-rrool 1p.... o.                              .2S        I2.        10.          12.I        2.0        22.        22.22
2.Tot.I"pb2l  ft-0t...                             G.2         F.,7       2.8          4.9         2.2         0.4        2.2
C. PW. tT;or.,IC--,no  US$ *1o.4.0                               212.0       428.4        71.   2.7 3 .7    922.7    1,10
(2  f    I40.1 -oo. fool. WS)                       I.2         8.0        18.          20,0       21.1        19.7        29.20
lb M   -k.t Wl-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..~1
p    t.ori,    4t  040



-  27  -                                                    P!Lot X
9ALAC2 0f PAMFNTS. FIITC8NA. ASS sTANC.r  MOT? ANd CDI3ITWIRU188N1ES
(Current US$  Illo_)
1973     1974     1975      19?6     197?       1978/n  1979         190       19115      1990
S.orv of Wone-  of Paymets
Sxport.  FlnrI,of lIPS)                              2,084.7  3.025.4  2796.5  3 .490.6  4*029.3   4.930.7   6.300.0   7,640.0  12,035.0  24,067.7
I-opt. (Inelodln  lFS)                              2,258.3  3,353.2  3,487.3  31911.9  5,093.8   5,919.2   8 140.0   9,460.0  13,904.5  24,650.4
be.o...e  ib.ane                                      -173.6   -327.8  -609.8   -421.3 -1.04.4    -989.2  -1.840.0   1,800.0  -1,069.5           317.3
Met f-otor m-rvce Iocose                               -20.8     -0.7       3.4   -41.6    -72.5    -154.5    -210.0   -300.0    -925.0  -1,412.5
Net Intert joyento                                     7.0     36.0      69.0     26.1      -4.0     -69.4    -100.0   -210.0   -766.9  -1.170.7
Of 56tth o pab1tc 0 & LT los.                     -25.1    -28.1    -34.5    .44.3    -64.5    -101.8    -131.1   -174-5    -487.1    -882.0
DIrect Investment into..                             -28.0    -37.0    -64.0   -66.1    -68.5        -72.8      -75.5     -80.0   -192.5    -290.0
llorker.  -itnocee 0ost)                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       22.9      24.5       34.4      48.2
Current transfers (net)                                145.5    241.0      80.1     22.8      39.3      40.4       60.0      80.0      103.0     110.0
3i1        n tor rrent sotn,t                          -48.9   -47.5   -605.3  -440.0 -1097.6  -1.103.4  -1.990.0  -2.020.0  -1,896.5   -985.1
Privat  direct Inv  t-ent                               67.0    135.6      85.5     79.1    106.1       30.0      60.0       75.0     276.3      487.0
Grants & g..nt-lik. rot                                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
P.bIlc M 6 LT I.n-
Di.ba-s-nt.                                           69.0    95.9    149.2    241.7    362.6        739.5     900.0   1.010.8   1.960.4   2,697.6
A.orti.stlen                                         -28.9    -32.3    -38.7    -43.4    -87.8       -90.7   -164.1    -222.1    -620.1  -1.092.7
Net diebhrsements                                     39.2     63.5    110.5    198.3    274.8       648.8      735.9     788.7   1,340.3   1,604.9
Other M & LT I..an
Dt.br-enst                                           178.9    326.2    399.6    279.7    311.0       501.3     900.0   1,150.0   1,393.0       462.2
A.nrtleation                                        -223.1   -197.2   -235.1   -245.9   -264.2       467.2   -520.0    -600.0    -850.6  -1,167.8
Net dlsbtr-e.ent                                     144.2    129.3      64.5     33.8     47.6       34.1      380.0    350.0      542.4    -705.6
Us. of IMF   ana... -.                                   0.0      0.0       0.0     77.1       1.8     181.4     200.0      200.0     -30.0        0.0
Short-ter. cnpitmn  ttrnssctio-s                        42.0     55.5    127.5    136.2    256.2        84.0     120.0      250.0     180.1      252.6
Capital t..osactlnns NE1                               17.9     96.3      77.2   -11.4    136.2   -371.9          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Chn8ge 10 t-Serv- (  - . Intcre)                      -113.0  -392.7    140.1   -73.0    275.0         476.9     494.1      176.3     414.8   -654.5
Net foreign exchange remorves lb
(end of porlnd)                                   1,306.0  1.399.0  1,406.0  1,444.0  1,135.8       659.9      166.0       10.0   2.62.4.5   5,320.9
Gr-nt end Lonw ComItn-nnt
Off0cial gesoto                                          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Total pobllc M & LT lo.n.                               87.1    436.5    223.4    372.3    633.0   1.220.0
loRD                                                  13.0    142.0     93.0    158.0    137.8       256.0
IDA                                                   25.0      7.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       33.1
Other -ltil.tnrl                                      6.4     77.2      62.7     92.1      47.0     194.7
Covarn  nto                                           24.0    200.5      47.7     22.2    106.4      312.0
Of  h,tbh nentrlly plnnod  .on-S.. .c               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Sappie rn                                              0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
fiosnonal Inetltotioa                                 18.7      9.7      18.0    100.0    341.9      423.7
Othn tl iT L  loTnI-  (aher. vailable)                 178.9   413.9    392.5    360.2    348.9        531.8
Hc-d fonau... -
arast delont of total o_lt-ot. (Z)                    44.600   31.400   16.700   11.500   10.200    14.869
Aver-os  Interest (I)                                  0.044    0.057    0.076    0.081    0.080       0.072
Aver-a.  etrity  year,)                               29.100   23.800   23.300   18.500   14.000    12.832
1ledi-   nd tone-T.ee  Debt (Di.br-od only)
Tota1 debt o-t.tandig (DO0 end of perlod)              903.9  1,160.7  1,345.6  1,606.8  1,931.9   2,691.0
lan.ldiog -ndlnb-rsed                                1,182.4  1,770.0  2,009.5  2,404.0  3,145.9   4.594.3
P.bliG debt  -rv1-                                     -54.9   -60.4    -73.2    -87.7   -152.3    -202.9
Interest                                               -25.1    -28.1    -36.5    -44.3    -64.5    -100.7
Other 11 6 LT debt servic                             -255.8   -266.8   -314.5   -245.9   -338.3    -590.8
Total dobt  -sroit                                    -310.7   -327.2   -387.7   -333.6   1490.6    -796.7
Debt Surd-n t/)
Debt aeIco r-tlo                                        14.9     10.8      13.9      9.6    12.2        16.1
Debt  -ervit  ratlo /d                                  16.2     12.0      16.2     11.5    13.9        17.6
Debt merve/GfDP                                          2.9      2.5       2.7      2.0     2.7         3.6
Pablil  debt  -ol/Gov ...-rnaent revenos                 4.3      2.5       3.5      3.7     4.4         6.3
term (23
I.terest on total 0D0/total dloborasete                  5.7      5.5      5.6       5.4      3.7        5.6
Totl debt n-rvic./Gov-rnnlnt reve                       12.4     11.8      11.9     10.7     12.0       19.6
Depedency Rntlot rgr M8  LT Debt (Z)
Crt.. d1.b-en-ntellrport. llnclodig NFS)               11.0     12.6      12.9     13.3     10.9       21.0
let tranftr/lniponrt. (inoldleg NFS)                    -2.8      2.8       1.8      4.8      2.0       10.2
Met tr.n.f-n/grooa dlsnb-e..enat                       -25.3     22.3      13.6     36.0     18.4       48.7
Elmneore (21
I3t6  dlWb.r,eent/oroe  toesl dlsh.rsemot.              14.8      8.0      9.1       8.3     12.0        9.2
Benk C-rop dieb.-.rset./g-on. total dlaburaena.t.    14.8         8.3      9.7       9.5     13.6        9.9
IBRD DDD/tot-l 00D                                      24.2     20.8     20.0      18.6     17.9       20.2
Oak tro.  DD/totD  l D D                                24.2     20.9     20.4      19.2     18.9       21.3
1D0 D e*t aeeeltO/total drbt ter.l.-                     8.0      8.5      8.3      10.9      9.8       7.8
iak  Cr-# debt eervelt/oll aett                         8.0       8.5      8.3      10.9      9.8        7.8
jsteeeal Debt (Dtlboreed oany)                        Oftst.adile  12/31/78
(OCret-t. US$  tlIloen)                              dasst         I
trBD                                                   434.8     24.5
ashk Group                                             459.3     25.8
Other mnltilter-1                                      257.5      14.5
Covereotot                                             549.2      30.9
Of ohrth te,trIlly pla..ed anco.-fes /c                0.0      0.0
Soppller.                                                9.0      0.5
Finrtla1 Intit-tion.                                   502.1      28.2
Mode                                                     0.0      0.0
Total pblicn M* LT debt                              1,777.1    100.0
Other M 1 LT debt                                     913.9      51.4
Total pobIlr debt (Incladiog undl.hor.ed)            3,680.4    207.1
Total M * LT debt (lnclud1ng aodl,b.-ed)             4,594.3    238.5
.19 Prelmloanry.
Lb  let f-reIg 8et.-w  tS0 eq-ivaleet of Ltn. 31.                                                                                          October, 1979
/c  lotlad.s CNFA ronttlee, Peoples Repoblic of 0,1.o, Iortb Korea, Worth Viet e
Id In.lodlog art dire-t Inveotent Intoee.



- 28 -                                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                                  Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                   Less Cancellations
Number Year         Borrower                          Purpose      Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-six loans and one credit fully disbursed                    471.67    5.49         -
822   1972   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education       15.40       -    0.91
864   1972   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           37.00        -    0.41
369   1973   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education           -   19.50    0.89
461   1974   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation          -    7.00    0.13
977   1974   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          75.00        -    2.65
992   1974   Industrial Finance Corporation
Thailand                             Industry       11.70        -    0.19
1149  1975   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    95.00         -   56.69
1198  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rural Dev.    21.00(TW)   -    7.39
1199  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Livestock        5.00(TW)   -    2.31
1243  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Rubber          50.00       -   17.92
1253  1976   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           26.00        -    3.77
1271  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                     Education      31.00        -   15.28
1327  1976   Industrial Finance Corporation of
Thailand                             Industry       25.00        -    3.42
1393  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Agriculture   28.00         -   15.41
1468  1977   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    55.00         -   29.28
1485  1977   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          50.00        -   13.08
1492  1977   Industrial Estates Authority of
Thailand                             Industry        4.80        -    1.32
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Population          -   33.10/b 32.40
1519  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Transport.   110.00         -   46.08
1527  1978   Provincial Electricity Authority        Rural Elect.  25.00         -   16.09
1556  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Housing         8.60        -    7.19
S-10  1978   Natural Gas Organization of
Thailand                             Natural Gas    4.90         -    0.09
1620  1978   Telephone Organization of Thailand   Telecom           90.00        -   90.00
1630  1978   Kingdom of Thailand                     Irrigation    17.50         -   16.95
1638  1979   Kingdom of Thailand                     Urban           16.00       -   13.55
1662  1979   State Railway of Thailand               Railways       16.70        -   13.69
1690  1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                          Power          80.00        -   76.58



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
7i3      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Education              -    35.00      34.58
929      1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Agriculture            -    25.00      24.51
1752     1979   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Extension       40.00    -         39.72
1770     1979   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand          Power               80.00    -         70.43
1773     1980   Petroleum Authority of          Natural Gas
Thailand                       Pipeline         107.00/d  -        107.00
1787     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Irrigation          80.00    -         77.60
1816     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Credit          19.00    -          19.00
1852     1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand        Power               72.00    -         68.42
1865     1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                    Water Supply        40.00    -         40.00
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Housing             29.00    -         29.00
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity
Authority                    Power               75.00    -         75.00
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Inland Waterways   53.00    -          53.00
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ports               47.00    -         47.00
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand             Ag. Research        30.00    -          30.00
Total                                                        2,042.22  125.09  1,198.93
of which has been repaid                                     238.71    0.39
Total now outstanding                                        1,803.51  124.70
Amount sold /c                       68.63
of which has been repaid           47.55                      21.08
Total now held by Bank and IDA                               1,782.43  124.70
Total undisbursed                                            1,106.42   92.51
/a  This summary includes Bank Group loans/credits signed as of December 31, 1980.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norway grant participation.
/c Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
/d Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).



- 30-                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1980)
Amounts ($ million)
Year       Company                Type of Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.      Materials                 0.30        -      0.30
1964/  Industrial                Development                    -    0.39       0.39
1970     Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group         Cement and
1975/                              Construction
1978/1979                          Materials                28.33    4.24      32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company       Money and Capital
Limited                  Market                       -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                  Processing                2.50    0.20       2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries         2.00        -       2.00
1979/ Bangkok Glass Industry
1980     Company, Limited        Glass Containers            4.85    0.34       5.19
1979   Siam City Cement          Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials           36.00    4.00      40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                 -    0.15       0.15
Total gross commitments                             73.98    9.61      83.59
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           49.17    2.56      51.73
Net held by the Corporation                         24.81    7.05      31.86
Total undisbursed                                    6.00        -      6.00



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of December 31, 1980)
Loan No. 822 Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4
Million Loan of May 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22,
1972; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
The project is about 30 months behind schedule due to initial delays
in civil works and consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement.
During the last two years, however, implementation has progressed
satisfactorily and is now complete. The total project cost has exceeded the
appraisal estimates by about 36%. The project objectives (expansion and
improvement of facilities, improvement of curricula and staff development)
have been reached. A draft project completion report prepared by a consul-
tant for the Government is now being reviewed by the Bank.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing
Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30,
1980
All project components have been completed, about 30 months behind
schedule because of delays in the Teacher Training Colleges component. Good
progress was made in the pedagogical development of project components. The
Government has been asked to make arrangements for drafting a project
completion report.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Loan No. 1271 Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and is expected
to be completed ahead of schedule. All civil works have been tendered and
most contracts awarded. More than half of equipment and furniture has been
procured. Nearly all fellowships have been awarded. Staff training programs
are on schedule but need to be improved, as does supervision by the Ministry
of Education of its nonformal education programs.
Credit No. 913 Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28, 1979;
Effective Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Good progress is being made in project implementation: (i) the
Central Procurement Unit has been established; (ii) sites for all first phase
institutions have also been acquired, and construction of this phase is
expected to be completed by mid-1981; (iii) Phase I sketch plans and lists for
most furniture and equipment have also been prepared; and (iv) technical
assistance consultants have been identified and partly contracted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December
5, 1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project has been completed and fully disbursed as of January 15,
1981.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project has been completed except for connection of some new
telephone lines expected by end of March 1981. About $3.8 million remains to
be disbursed against retention payments and against items missing from
initial supplies or for replacement of faulty items.



- 33 -                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower-s decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
The financial condition of the borrower continues to be satisfactory.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is generally satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance
equipment is under way, and all contracts have been awarded. Construction
on over 5% of project roads is well under way, with most contracts on
schedule.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on project implementation is satisfactory. The financial con-
dition of the State Railway of Thailand remains weak, and the Bank has urged
the Government to fulfil its obligations by implementing the necessary tariff
revisions.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial pre-construction activities are under way.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project: $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1979; Current Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
The project will be completed three years behind schedule as a
result of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring
earthmoving equipment. Work on rehabilitation of main canal systems has been
completed and the pace of construction of tertiary canals has improved
considerably. The current estimate of project cost is $30.3 million, compared
with $12.5 million at appraisal. This increase is due to inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal, the decision to provide new tertiary canals
over an area of 34,700 ha rather than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and
the adoption of higher standards for tertiary development than envisioned at
appraisal. The higher costs are compensated by increases in projected
commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated at 24%
compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component, earlier
affected by management difficulty in integrating the work of several different
disciplinary groups, is now satisfactory.



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25,1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The consultant's contract was signed in March 1979. Work by
contract is delayed but "force account" work began in early 1980. However,
progress has been slow due to delay in equipment procurement and recent
shortages of cement and fuel.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule. Construction work on the diversion dam is complete and works on
the distribution systems are proceeding well. The expected delay in comple-
tion is due to slow progress in on-farm works. All studies financed under the
project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works have been completed on about 35,000 ha, which is
in accordance with the appraisal estimate. A monitoring system is being set
up and the project is now served by the National Agricultural Extension
Project.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April 2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants have been appointed for both the Pattani and Mae Klong
components and have begun work. Force account operations began on both
components in early 1980 and extension of the main canal for Mae Klong is
being carried out by contract. Delays in completing designs and procuring
equipment mean that only limited progress is expected to be made during 1981.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants, satisfactory
progress is being made on the engineering of village roads.  The first con-
tract for construction of 114 km has been completed and work is more than 50%
complete on two contracts for a total of some 300 km for village access roads.
Works on other contracts are expected to begin soon. The road maintenance
program under the project is doing well. Procurement problems have delayed
the water supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been
delivered, drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. The
rural electrification component has been completed, and progress on agri-



- 35 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 12
cultural extension and land settlements is satisfactory. After a slow
start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is progressing satisfactorily.
The program management, with the assistance of a recently appointed program
advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past work and is gradually intro-
ducing an innovative program of research to help solve the problems of upland-
crop farmers in the Northeast.
Credit No. 929  Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date: October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Reasonable progress has been achieved during the first year of
project implementation, given the difficulties which have been encountered
in regard to budgeting, contracting and staffing. IDA staff are giving close
attention to these problems in an effort to help resolve them. In cases
where works have been delayed, no serious consequences will result.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding fairly satisfactorily with the
seed production and pasture development programs progressing particularly
well. A revised final procurement plan is awaited together with a probable
request from government for an extension of Loan Closing by a few months from
the June 30, 1981 date specified in the loan agreement. Staff morale has
improved as a result of a recent decision to absorb all project staff into
regular posts within the Livestock Department on completion of the project.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project is one year behind schedule due to procurement diffi-
culties and initial delay in loan signing as well as in agreeing on the
formula of fertilizers to be procured through ICB. Implementation has
improved substantially. The rubber replanting program has nearly reached the
target of 50,000 hectares per annum.
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The staffing situation has improved considerably in recent months,
with 66 out of 67 subjefvt matter specialist posts and 2,048 (87%) out 2,344
extension agent posts filled by late 1980. Civil works are now progressing
satisfactrorily and construction should be completed in 1981. Cost over-runs
on civil works is now around 100% of appraisal estimates. In-service
training, particularly of subject matter specialists, needs stregthening as
also does communication with research staff. The training and visit system
is now well understood at all levels, but routine administrative and special
assignments continue to interfere with the smooth running of the system.



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan No. 1752 Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is off to a good start with initial concen-
tration on seven provinces. Civil works have been tendered and evaluated
for two provinces and construction should commence shortly. The first batch
of incremental staff (13 subject matter specialists and 261 extension agents)
have been appointed. Disbursements are in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Preparation for project implementation has been somewhat slow, but
responsible agencies expect implementation to improve during the current
fiscal year. The EEC has agreed to provide a grant of $3.5 million to
finance the cooperative training program; this decision was made after the
Bank loan was signed.
Loan No. 1922 National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The loan has not yet been declared effective. A recently undertaken
initial supervision reported encouraging progress in appointing project
staff, manning the project coordinating unit, and appointing consultants.
Loan No. 977 Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project are nearly completed. The
installation of the turbine generating units is expected to be completed on
schedule. Project costs are likely to be about 30% higher than appraisal
estimates, due mainly to additional grouting work required beneath the main
embankment. The progress on resettlement has been satisfactory, and all of
the families affected have now been resettled.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is nearly completed.
Construction for the resettlement component is about 75% complete.
Disbursements are generally in line with appraisal estimates. Installation
of electrical and mechanical equipment is underway but not quite satisfactory
because of the delayed delivery of equipment by the manufacturers.



- 37 -                  ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
After an initial delay in procurement, progress on project
implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. S-10 Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is close to completion. In July 1979, the Borrower, the
National Gas Organization of Thailand, was taken over by the Petroleum
Authority of Thailand who is the Borrower for a loan of $107 million for the
Second Gas Pipeline project (Loan No. 1773-TH). Loan No. S-10-TH will be
refinanced under Loan No. 1773-TH, when the latter becomes effective.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on May 23, 1980. Site development has
been completed. Foundation piling is underway, slightly behind schedule, due
to the unsatisfactory performance of the contractor in the initial period.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The natural gas development project is progressing satisfactorily
and should be completed on time and within the cost estimate. Loan effec-
tiveness has been delayed pending signature of a sales contract with EGAT,
expected shortly.
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
Progress of construction is generally satisfactory.
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Initial progress on implementation is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation commenced on schedule but is about fourteen
months behind schedule because of difficulties encountered with the largest
contract. The National Housing Authority (NRA) is reviewing ways to resolve
these problems. Project completion is expected to be about six months behind
schedule. Good progress, however, has been made on the various policy
concepts on which the project is based, and NHA-s financial management has
been strengthened through technical assistance.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Design and procurement are generally proceeding satisfactory.
Efforts have also been initiated to hire consultants for a housing finance
study, a financial management study of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administra-
tion and project preparation and municipal financial management studies in
regional cities.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
The project-s overall progress has been slower than expected but
nevertheless promising. The most pressing concern is to strengthen the role
of OCMRT in guiding project implementation. Tangible project progress to
date has been principally (a) the successful introduction of 100 km of bus
lanes; (b) introduction of a computer controlled traffic signal system in
central Bangkok; and (c) a variety of minor civil works. Progress on insti-
tutional development of the executing agency (OCMRT), however, continues to
be slower than expected.
Loan No. 1863  Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Closing Date: April 3, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 1492  The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project; $4.75
Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date: March 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation continues to be good. On-site infrastruc-
ture has progressed further with 95% of the civil works completed. An
earlier dispute between IEAT and the contractors prevented the remaining 5%
from being completed sooner; this dispute has been resolved, and the estate's
full development is scheduled for mid-1981. External infrastructure has
been lagging, especially in respect of the Lat Krabang-Nong Chok access



- 39 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
road. Delays in construction and design changes have increased cost
estimates for the access road to B 99 million in 1980, up from an initial
estimate of B 33 million in 1977. The Government had agreed to guarantee the
construction of the access road, and an understanding has been reached that
the access road will be constructed with funds advanced by Bangkok Metropol-
itan Administration (BMA) to be subsequently reimbursed from next year's
Budget Bureau allocation.
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974: Original Closing Date:
September 3,1978; Current Closing Date: March 31, 1981
Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's financilal condition
continues to be good. The loan is fully committed and nearly diLsbursed.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1980;  Current Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The loan commitment rate was initially slower than expected because
of sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. However, the loan is now
fully committed and disbursements are satisfactory.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
After a delay of about 18 months, there has been a noticeable
improvement in overall project implementation. Out of 405 provincial level
facilities, contracts have been awarded for 168, and 67 have been completed.
Of the 25 district hospitals, 11 are under contract. Of the 10 national
level training facilities, 5 are under contract with one nearing completion.
First round contracts for contraceptive supplies and vehicles have been let,
and contracts are about to be signed for additional vehicles and for
printing, medical and audiovisual equipment. Most services, training, IEC
and population evaluation and research activities (E & R) are on schedule and
progressing satisfactorily.  Delays have occurred in management training,
health related E & R, and procurement of civil works and commodities.  IDA
approved a proposal to tap the innovative activities category of the credit
for an "Innovative Village Nutrition Project."  Most project activities are
expected to be completed by late 1982.  Updated cost estimates indicate a
probable cost overrun of about $4 million.



- 40 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
FOURTH IFCT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the Project:  not applicable
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  IFCT
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  August 1979
First mission to consider the project: March/April 1980
(d)  Appraisal mission:  March/April 1980; post appraisal mission:
September 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:  January 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  June 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) IFCT has agreed to:
(i) review its interest rates annually with the Bank and consult
with the Bank before formally changing them (para. 40);
(ii) seek the Bank's prior approval for all subloans greater than
$1.0 million (para. 45);
(iii)  exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress made in
achieving the objectives stated in its Statement of
Development Strategy (para. 47);
(iv) use at least one-third of the proposed loan for subloans of
less than $500,000 each, to borrowers with total fixed assets
not exceeding $5 million equivalent and to limit the size
of an individual subloan to $5 million (para. 52);
(v) keep the Bank informed of progress in reducing arrears
(para. 55); and



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(vi) give priority to raising funds to cover its currency
requirements in the domestic market (para. 59).
(b) The Government has agreed to:
(i) actively support IFCT in its efforts to mobilize new
resources to meet its operational fund requirements
(para. 59).



