                                  Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 26891




              PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                   LATVIA


                      LIEPAJAENVIRONMENT PROJECT
                                LOAN3814 -LV




                                 October 7,2003




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (ANNUAL AVERAGES)

Currency Unit =Latvian Lats (LVL)
1995                       US$l.OO                LVL 0.57
2000                       US$1.oo                LVL0.59


ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
BOD               Biochemical oxygen demand
C E M             Country Economic Memorandum
ECA               Europe and Central Asia Region
E M C             Environmental Management Component
ERR               economic rate o fretum
EU-LSIF           European Union Large Scale InfrastructureFacility
EUPHARE           European UnionAssistance Program to Eastem and Central Europe
FRR               financial rate o f return
FSU               Former Soviet Union
HELCOM            Helsinki Commission
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IF1               intemational financial institution
JCP               Joint Comprehensive EnvironmentalAction Program
LWWE              Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise
L W C             Liepaja Water Company Limited
MTR               Mid-termReview
O&M               operations and maintenance
OED               Operations Evaluation Department o f the World Bank
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCD               Project Concept Document
PKJ               Project Implementation Unit
PPAR              Project PerformanceAssessment Report
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report (a predecessor o fthe PAD)
TA                technical assistance
WTP               willingness to pay
UFW               unaccounted-for water
WWF               World Wide Fundfor Nature
WWTP              Wastewater Treatment Plant


FISCALYEAR
Government:               January 1-December      31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director (Acting), Operations EvaluationDepartment      : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                 : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.George T.KeithPitman

                                                              i


   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartment assesses the programs and activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes: first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verifythat the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expectedresults,and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections,policies,and procedures through
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperations.Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are
 innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studiesor countryevaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments; and thosethat are likelyto generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics,and analyticalapproaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
 validate and augment the informationprovidedin the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subjectto a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluationmethods used by OED are suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument,projectdesign, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more informationis availableon the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extentto which the project'sobjectives are consistentwith the country's
current developmentprioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoral assistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers,CountryAssistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
OperationalPolicies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved,or expectedto be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustmentoperations.
      Sustainabilify:The resilienceto risk of net benefits flows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely,Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitufional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitableand sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
betterdefinition, stability, transparency,enforceability, and predictabilityof institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
betteralignmentof the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate,which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
project.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, NegIigible.
     Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensuredquality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequatetransitionarrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
qualityof preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements,towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                     ...
                                                                     111



Contents
Principal Ratings         ................................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible             ........................................................................................................    v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................     vu..

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................      ix

1 Background
 .                     ..................................................................................................................     1

2 The Project
 .                    ...................................................................................................................     2

3 Implementation
 .                            ............................................................................................................    2

4.  Results   ...........................................................................................................................     4

        Objective 1: Environmental Quality Was Substantially Improved..........................                                               4
        Objective 5: Environmental Management and Eco-Tourism WerePromoted........8
5 Ratings
 .             ..........................................................................................................................     9

        Outcome...................................................................................................................            9
                   Relevance...................................................................................................              10
                   Efficacy...................................................................................................... 11
                   Efficiency...................................................................................................             11
        Institutional Development ......................................................................................                     12
        Sustainability..........................................................................................................
                . . .                                                                                                                        12
        Bank Performance ................................................................................................. 13
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                      13
6 Findingsand Lessons
 .                                     .................................................................................................     14

        Findings ................................................................................................................ -14
        Lessons................................................................................................................... 16
Annex A Basic Data Sheet
           .                              ..............................................................................................     19

Annex B1    . Guidelines          to the Process of Integrating Environment and Economy                                                   ....23
Annex B2: Law on Coastal Protection with Specification of Activities Prohibited
    within three Zones           ......................................................................................................      25




This report was preparedby GeorgeT.KeithPitman. who assessedthe projectinJuly 2002. Thereport was     ~~




editedbyWilliamHurlbut. and Soon-WonPakprovidedahnistrative support.


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings
                              ICR*                       ES*                       PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability                Likely                     Likely                     Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment      Substantial                Substantial                High
Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible
Project                      Task Manager                 Division Chief/             Country
                                                          Sector Director             Director
Appraisal                    Stephen Lintner              Geoffrey Fox                Basil G. Kavalsky
Completion                   lnesis Kiskis                John A. Hayward             Basil G. Kavalsky


                                              vii


Preface

        This i s the Performance Assessment Report (PAR) preparedbythe Operations
EvaluationDepartment (OED) for the Liepaja Environment Project, which was approved
inDecember 1994for anIBRDloanofUS$4.00 million. A total ofUS$12.77 millionin
cofinancing for the US$22.38-million project was provided bythe EU, Denmark,
Finland, Sweden, Nordic EnvironmentFinance Corporation, andWorld Wide Fundfor
Nature, and supplemental assistance from the Netherlands. The project was closed as
planned inMarch 2000 and hlly disbursed.
        This report is based on the ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) prepared by
the Europe and Central Asia Region (Report no. 20967, September 28,2000), the
Memorandum andRecommendationo f the President (Report no. P6402, November 8,
1994), Staff Appraisal Report (Report no. 13429-LVYNovember 8, 1994), loan
documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited Latvia
and met stakeholders inDenmark, Finland, and Sweden inJuly 2002 to discuss the
effectiveness o f the Bank's assistancewith the government o f Latvia, development and
financing partners, project implementing agencies, private sector agencies, and
nongovernmental organizations. The cooperation and assistance o f central andmunicipal
government officials, management and staff o f the Liepaja water utility, chairmen and
counselors o f the Jurkalne andRucavamunicipal councils, nongovemmental
stakeholders, and other interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.

        This PPARis part o fa regional evaluation that included similar projects in
Estonia and Lithuania. It assesses the outcome o f the Bank's assistance, inpartnership
with several cofinanciers, to enable Latvia to reduce pollution to the Baltic Sea, reform a
water andwastewater utility, and establish sustainable coastal zone management.

        Following standard OED procedures, the draft PAR was sent to the borrower for
comments and none were received. Inaccordance with the Bank's disclosure policy, the
final report will be available to the public following submission to the World Bank's
Boardo f Executive Directors.


                                                 ix


Summary

         The Latvia-Liepaja Environment Project was approved inDecember 1994 for an
IBRDloan o fUS$4.00 million(Loan 3814-LA). A total o fUS$12.77 million in
cofinancing for the US$22.38-million project was providedby the EU, Denmark,
Finland, Sweden, Nordic EnvironmentFinance Corporation, and World Wide Fundfor
Nature, and supplemental assistancefrom the Netherlands. The project was fully
disbursedandclosed as plannedinMarch2000.

         The project was formulated under the 1992 Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive
Environmental Action Programme (JCP), which identified priority actions for the control
o fpoint source and non-point source pollution draining into the Baltic Sea and measures
to improve water quality management o f surface water, groundwater, coastal lagoons,
and wetlands. Liepaja, a formerly closed military-industrial town with a population o f
105,000 on the west coast andthe country's thirdlargest city, was identified as one o f
three municipal pollution "hot spots" inLatvia. The main objectives o f the project were
to reduce water pollution discharge to the Baltic Sea and Lake Liepaja, restore and
enhance surface and groundwater quality andpromote integratedcoastal zone
management and eco-tourism. These objectives were to be achieved by improving the
quality, reliability, and cost efficiency o f water supply and wastewater treatment and
makingthe services financially sustainable, and facilitating local-levelplanning and
investment inthe coastal region. Significant technical assistance and twinning
arrangements via cofinancing partners supported the modernization o f service
management to increase operational efficiency inLiepaja, andhelped foster employment,
tourism and conservation intwo parishes locatedinthe coastal region.

        The outcome o fthe project was satisfactory, aresult o fthe synergy generatedby
Latvia's partnership with the Bank,Nordic bilateral donors, the EU, and the World Wide
Fundfor Nature. Relevance was substantial giventhe needto clean upthe Baltic Sea,
Latvia's drive for EUaccession, the desire to bringthe formerly closed Liepajamilitary
regionback into the national economy, and dwindlingpublic resources to subsidize
inefficient utilities. Institutionaldevelopment impact is rated as high, and efficacy i s rated
as substantial. The project successfully introducedmodernizedmanagement that improved
operation, maintenance, and financial management, andprovided essential support to the
government's devolution o f services to autonomous andcommercially oriented limited
liability companies ownedbymunicipalities.As aresult, the quality o fwater andservice
providedto consumers increased, andthe quantity o fpollution discharged to the Baltic Sea
substantiallydeclined-inpart becauseo feconomic slowdown, factory closure, andthe
effect o fhigher water prices. Eventhoughwater andwastewater tariffs were substantially
raised, the utilityis having difficulty inreaching covenanted debt coverage criteria because
water sales fell by a about a thirddue to reduced demandand more efficient water use.
However, the trend o f financial indicators i s towards financially sustainable ratios - albeit
on a slower schedule thanplanned.

        Environmental management activities supported by several donors were
successfully promoted.An integratedcoastal zone management framework anddraft plan
was developed, but because o f evolving anddiffering stakeholder perspectives, and

                                                A



reliance on external grants, it may be some time before a plani s finalized and
implemented. Even so, the activities have facilitated local discussion o f common issues,
partnerships,good governance, development o fentrepreneurs, and growth o ftourism.

        The ex-post economic rate o freturn (ERR) for the Liepajawater andwastewater
utilitywas 6.5 percent largelybecausepost-Soviet industrial closure andmore efficient
water use led to a decline inincome from water sales. Evenso, the ERRwould be higher
ifenvironmental andtourismbenefits were includedandthus, efficiency isratedmodest.
Sustainability i s ratedlikely because o fproject achievements and continued high
borrower ownership and regional stakeholder support from Nordic, EU, andNGO
development partners. Inspite o f the modest efficiency o fphysical components, overall
project outcome i s rated satisfactory because o f the highlevel o f institutional
development achieved by the project and strong borrower ownership.

       Borrower and Bank performance are rated satisfactory.

The experience o fthis project offers three lessons:
    >  Regionally-sponsored environmental initiatives inresponseto inter-governmental
       actionplans provide good opportunities for the Bank to exercise its comparative
       advantage inleveraging institutional reformthrough targeted lending.When linked
       with grant fundingfiom bilateral development partners it provides apowerful and
       influential lobby for reform.
    >  When designingand implementingregional environmental initiatives andtheir
       specific projects, significant benefits can be achieved by addressing infrastructure
       investments, environmental management activities and capacity buildinginan
       integratedmanner.Mutlipliereffects will be achieved by careful attention and
       support for development o f local institutions and their human resources.
    >  Itis important to fully understandthe interests andinstitutional capabilities ofthe
       various local stakeholders, specifically for community based activities, and to
       factor insufficient time andresources to builda consensus for reform and
       agreement on issues and longer-term objectives. Care should be taken to avoid
       project activities being solely drivenby external partnersas this can undermine
       local ownership.




                                                          Gregory K.Ingram
                                                          Director-General
                                                          Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


  1.     Background

  1.     Latvia, the second largest o fthe Baltic States, i s borderedby Estonia to the north,
  Lithuania to the south, and Russia andBelarus to the east. Ithas a population o f 2.6 million
  and regained its independence from the former Soviet Union in 1991. The transition from
  centralplanning to a market economy that followed inthe 1990s was orderly but difficult,
  characterized by a significant decline inproductivity as a result o f the collapse o f trading
  relations with Russia and other former Soviet republics. Although it has substantially
  recovered from these shocks, and GDP growth averaged 5 percent per annum inthe 1999-
  2001 period, the government i s runninga fiscal deficit and unemployment is high, especially
  inrural areas. Since the mid-1990s Latvia's economic anddevelopment objectives havebeen
  driven by the EUaccession process, which guidedeconomic policymaking, and a drive
  toward harmonizing environmental standards with EUnorms. The Bank's first Public
  Expenditure Review for Latvia (Report no. 12793, July 12, 1994) highlightedpriority
  investmentneeds inenergy, transport, and environmental services, including improvedwater
  supply andtreatment. The Liepajaproject was the first o f four environmental institution-
 buildingprojects assisting cleanup o fthe Baltic Sea.'

  2.     As amember ofthe HelsinkiCommission(HELCOM), the government has agreedto
  implementnationalprograms to cleanupthe Baltic Seaunder the Joint Comprehensive
  Environmental Action Program (JCP). The program was devisedto restore the Baltic Sea to a
  sound ecological balance andprovide a framework to guide implementationby each state.2
 Latvia identified nine environmental "hot spots" for cleanup, three o f which were municipal:
 Daugavpils, Liepaja, andRiga. The Bank agreed to assist and coordinate clean-up o f
 Daugavpils and Liepaja, while the clean-up o fRiga was assisted by EBRD andNordic
 bilateral development partners.

  3.     Liepaja, Latvia's third-largest city with a population o f 105,000, i s an important
 commercialport and fishing harbor andhome o f several industrial enterprises, including food
processing and metal works. It i s situated on the northem end o f a coastal spit behindwhich
 lies a 40-kilometer-long wetland depression containing Lake Liepaja inthe north and Lake
Pape inthe south, just north o f the border with Lithuania. InSoviet times Liepaja was a
 closed militarycity and submarine base covering some 2,000 hectares and ringed by
countryside full o fhigh-security facilities. The coastal waters outside Liepaja, Lake Liepaja
(an omithological reserve), andthe City Channel connecting the lake with the Baltic Sea
were severely polluted with untreated and partially treated industrial anddomestic sewage,
and contaminated with heavy metalsS3The challenge o f the project was to bringabout

~~



 1.The other environmental projects were: Lithuania-Klaipeda, signed December 1994; Estonia Haapsalu-
Matsalu, signed April 1995; and Lithuania-Siauliai, signed December 1995.

2. Belarus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Russian Federation, Slovak Republic, and
Ukraine.
3. Some 13,000 m3/day o f untreated sewage was discharge to Lake Liepaja, the City Channel, and the Military
Harbor to the north supplemented by 10,000 m3/day o fpartially treated sewage. A major problem was that the
capacity o f the existing wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) was severely strained bypoorly maintained
sewerage, which allowed infiltration of groundwater that accounted for half of the 56,000 m3/daytreatment
capacity.

                                                    2


integrated management o f this coastal zone to reduce pollution, meet international treaty
commitments to reduce polluted discharges to the Baltic Sea, andprovide a basis for tourism.
Inadditionto promotionofeco-tourism andconservation activities, theproject only tackled
the pollution problems o fLiepaja city because the magnitude o fthe problem at the naval
base was unknown as this facility remainedunder Russianmilitary control untilwell into the
project.

4.       The coastline north and south o fLiepaja has high scenic value and fine beaches, but
inSoviet times was aseverelyrestrictedareapollutedbycoastaldischarges. LakePape
(inlandand40 kilometers to the south) is an important stoppingplace on the East African
EuropeanFlyway for migratory birds and a critical part o f a corridor o f wildlife habitats that
includes the Curonian Lagoon inLithuania and Matsalu Bay inEstonia.


2.       The Project

5.        Objectives. The overall goal o fthe project was to helpre-integrate Liepaja and its
region into the Latvian national fabric after more than 40 years as a closed Soviet military
zone. This was to be achieved through devolving responsibility for environmental services to
municipal governments, reducing the State's role inthe economy by strengthening local
authorities, restructuring and modemizing the water andwastewater sector, and strengthening
environmental and ecosystem management. These tasks were articulated through five
objectives (Table 1) and financed primarily through grants (Table 2).


3.       Implementation

6.       Implementationproceeded with few problems. The government established a steering
committee, which although large, was effective4andsuccessfully decentralized management o f
the water andwastewater component to the Liepaja Water andWastewater Enterprise (LWWE,
later renamed Liepaja Water Company, L W C hereafter). A small Project ImplementationUnit
(PIU) was established and, after training inlanguage andon Bankprocedures, provedto be
very effective and efficient. Counterpart funds were initially problematic but were
subsequently regular and adequate. The twinning arrangements got off to a slow start party due
to the attention procurement needed from LWC's management. Twinningand other technical
assistancewas very good on technical support, but less effective at managerial reform due to
entrenched attitudes -fortunately an issue that was resolvedby L W C midway through the
project. Accounting, billing, and collection procedures required andreceived the special
attention they warranted, but not before the newly computerized accounting system hadbeen
replaced. The environmental management and conservation activities were slow to start partly
because it took time to get stakeholders together, approve options andplans, and negotiate with
extemal funders.

4. The Steering Committee had20 members of whom 6 were drawn from central government (5 from DOE,one
from the Ministry o f Finance). The remained were drawn from the regional, city, andparish councils, the
regional environmental protection committee, and the World Bank.

                                                      3


Table 1: ProjectObjectivesandCost at Appraisal
                                                                                                Cost,US$millions

                Objective                                       Components                     Appraisal    Ex-post

   1.  Reduce discharge o f partially     Water andWastewater Improvement
       treated and untreated wastewater    Component
       to the Baltic Sea
   2.  Restore and enhance the surface     Rehabilitate and expand the Liepaja water and
                                           wastewater system including equipment and
       and groundwater quality in
       Liepaja, the northem portion of     works, engineering services, measures to reduce
                                           water demand and actions to control industrial
       Lake Liepaja, the City Channel      discharges:
       and adjacent beaches on the
       Baltic Sea                                   Water Supply and Distribution                $1.79       $3.72
   3.  Improvethe quality, reliability
       and cost efficiency of water                 Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment           $11.48      $16.62

       supply and sanitation services in            Project ImplementationUnitand                $1.17       $0.90
       Liepaja                                      Contract Supervision
  4.   Improve operational efficiency
       and management systems o f the               Technical Assistance and training            $0.51       $0.64

       Liepaja Water and Wastewater
       Enterprise
                                        7  EnvironmentalManagementComponent

   5.  Promote environmentally             Technical and financial support for the
       sustainable management and          development and implementationo f a                  $1.50       $1.50
       development of the coastal zone,    management plan, including equipment and small
       tourism and protected areas in      scale works for (a) adjacent coastal and protected
        and around Liepaja and Ventspils   areas and (b) recreational and nature-based
                                           tourism inthe Liepaja area.

                                                Price and Physical Contingencies                $4.72

                                                Total Cost                                      $21.17      $23.38



Table 2: FinancingArrangements(US$ millions)
                      Financier                     Type of       Waste Water        Environmental
                                                    Finance       Improvement         Management      Total

IBRDLoan                                              Loan             3.80                0.20        4.00

Nordic EnvironmentalDevelopment Agency                Loan             2.00                 0          2.00

Swedish International Development Agency             Grant             6.50                 0          6.50

Ministry o f Environment, Finland                    Grant             2.30                 0          2.30

EU(PHARE)                                             Grant             0.62                0          0.12

MinistryofEnvironment, Denmark                       Grant               0                 0.50        0.50

Other Donors including the Netherlands               Grant               0                 0.80        0.80

Government o f Latvia                                                   5.41                0          5.41

Municipality o f Liepaja                                                1.75                0           1.75

                                          Total                        22.38               1.5        23.38

                                                     4


4.      Results

Objective 1:EnvironmentalQualityWas SubstantiallyImproved

7.      Pollutionto the BalticSea was reduced.Dischargeofuntreated andpartially treated
wastewater into the Baltic Sea from Liepaja town was substantially reduced and 96.5 percent
o f Liepaja's wastewater i s now
treated. Construction o f interceptor
sewers eliminated 14 sewage                             Figure I: Pollution Dischargedto the Baltic
discharges to the City Channel and                                     Sea Declined Rapidly
8 to Lake Liepaja, and completion                    1000    "

o f a new wastewater treatment plant
(WWTP) increasedtreatment                        u)   800                                   IOBiochemica Oxygen Demand

capacity from 22,000 cubic meters                C                                           ONitrogen
                                                 0
                                                 CI
per day to 55,000 cubic meters per               a?
day. An effective sewer leak                     $    600
                                                 c
detectionprogram and greater-than-               =.--
                                                 0
                                                 ln

anticipated reconstruction                       c 400
                                                 0
significantly reduced groundwater                c)
                                                 3

infiltration to, and leakage from, the           0
                                                 p 200
sewers. As a result o f these
improvements, and a decline in
water consumption because of                            0
                                                           1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
industrial closure andincreased
water tariffs, the volume of                    Source: HELCOM. 2001. Baltic Sea Proceedings.No 83.
                                               Note: No data available for 1992, 1993, 1996, and 2000.
discharged-pollutants fell
        -
dramatically (Figure 1). The volume ofbiochemical oxygen demand (BOD), nitrogen (N),
andphosphorous (P) discharged to the Baltic Seanow meet HELCOM and project targets,
although the concentrationofNintreated wastewater effluent exceeds the HELCOM
~tandard.~

Objective2: Surfaceandgroundwaterqualitywas restoredandenhanced

8.       Inthe northemportion ofLake Liepaja, the City Channel, and adjacent beaches on
the Baltic Sea surface and groundwater quality was improvedbutwith some shortcomings.
Raw sewage i s no longer discharged by from Liepaja city to Lake Liepaja or the City
Channel. Liepaja's southem beach (which i s subject to a prevailing northerly longshore drift)
has received a "blue flag" rating from the sanitary authorities and swimming i s now
permittedS6Because of the northward drift o fnear-shore pollution, some of the improvements



5. The HELCOMconcentration standards for treated wastewater and achievements (1999) were as follows:
BOD standard is 15 mg/l, achievement 3.7 mg/l;Nstandard is 12mgil, achievement is 16mg/l; P standard is
1.5mg/l, achievement is 0.93 mg/l.
6. A direct linkbetween cleaner beaches andproject activities is conjectural as no data was systematically
collected to allow before and after comparisons.

                                                     5


to this beach are a result o fparallel cleanup activities supported bythe Bank inLith~ania.~
Even so, periodic spill problems from the oil export terminals inButinge (Lithuania) and
Ventspils create problems for Liepajabeaches whennortherly and southerly winds blow.

9.       Despite the improvements to the northern section o f Lake Liepaja, four adjacent
municipalities continue to discharge partially treated sewage into the lake, thus reducing its
depthandjeopardizing improvementsbrought about bythe project. In2001, littoral
municipalities accepted a comprehensive management planand, in2002, a project
applicationwas made for EUgrants to implement a cleanup program.

10.      Groundwater i s the primary drinkingwater source inLiepaja. Reducing the leaks
from the sewerage andwater distribution system (para. 4.6) has almost eliminatedpollution
o f groundwater and cross-contamination. Notwithstanding concern at appraisal that
groundwater could bepolluted by seepage from sludge storage lagoons, L W C has been
unable to address the growing sludge storage problem, although a Bank-finance solid-waste
project i s currently addressing the issue.' As demand for water declined, groundwater levels
have risen by about 12meters, thus saving pumpingcosts. To date, however, this has hadno
discernible effect on seawater intrusion into the aquifer beneath Liepaja.' A Bank-financed
subcomponent inthe project that aimed at removal o f iron from pumpedgroundwater and
chlorination was transferred in 1998 to EU-Phare grant-financing.

11.      Significant pollution hazards remain inthe former militaryarea. Although the industrial
area and decommissioned submarine basenorth o fthe City Channel only account for 3.5
percent o f sewage volume, this has considerably higher concentrations o fpollutantsbecause o f
industrial discharges. Sewage from this area is untreated becauseit i s not connected to Liepaja
WWTP. Cleanup o findustrial andtoxic wastes dumpedinto the former militaryharbor and
navy harbor channel (the Kara Ostas Kanals) were excluded from the project becauseo f a
delayed handover bythe Russianmilitary (completed 1997) andbecausethe likely costs o f
remediationwere expectedto be very high." In 1999, the State Bureau for Environmental
Impact Assessment approved a municipal proposalto builda wall around the site to ensure safe
storage o f dredged pollutants -apermanent solution has yet to be agreed and funded.

Objective3: The Quality,ReliabilityAnd Cost EfficiencyOfWater SupplyAnd
SanitationServices Was Improved.

12.      Water supply systems were upgraded to reduce leakage and new pumpingplant was
installed. Due to cost savings, renewal o f water mains exceeded appraisal targets: 6.6
kilometers o fmain were installed inaddition to 37 borehole and 8 distribution pumps and
together this reducedunaccounted for water by over a million cubic meters a year. Over


7. OED.2003. Project Performance AssessmentReport Klaipeda EnvironmentalProject.
8. The Bank's Liepaja Solid Waste Management Project (approved FYO1) includes provisions to improve
sludgemanagement.
9. Latvian Environmental Agency. 2002. Environmental Indicators inLatvia 2002. Chapter 12: Use Of Water
Resources.
10.About 29 ships containing industrial andtoxic wastes were scuttled inthe Kara Osta Kanals bythe Soviets.

                                                   6


1,400 residential units were fittedwith water meters that inducedhouseholders to repair leaks
to save money. The WWTP andpartly new terminal main and 15 new sewage pumps and a
centralizedoperating system were completed for less than the cost estimated at appraisal.
While these improvements increased efficiency - saving about $0.34 million or 11percent o f
1998 net revenues - subsequent escalation o f electricity prices, supplies and wages and
runningcosts o fthe extendedWWTP, raisedoperating overall costs more thanplanned. A
new and fully equipped water andwastewater quality laboratory, coupled with subsurface
survey equipment andregularmonitoring andmaintenance, enables EUstandards to be
maintained.

13.       Evenwith these improvements, pipedwater supply andsanitationstill onlyreaches
three-quarters o f Liepaja's population. At appraisal only 10 percent o f the population was
unserved but, due to inclusion o f the former military area after 1997, the unserved population
increased to 25 percent and i s locatedprimarily inpoor quality housing stock slated for
redevelopment. Inthe ICR (page 67) the L W C state that, following a 1995 survey o f 190
unserved households, "implementation o f this component i s not purposeful and the allocated
amount can be usedfor reconstruction o fwater mains which was approved by the
Financiers." The view o f the City Council duringthe assessmentwas that redevelopment
would be undertakenby either the residents or private contractors. Inthe meantime,
householders take water from standpipes and solid waste baskets are collected by the
municipality.l1

Objective4: OperationalEfficiencyandManagementof LiepajaWater CompanyWas
Improved.

14.       LiepajaWater Company, a limitedliability enterprise, was registered inJuly 1998. All
shares are owned bythe City Council, which selects the boardmembers. Aided by a twinning
arrangement with Norrkoping Water Company (financed by Sida) andvarious grant-supported
technical specialists, L W C i s now a modem andwell-run utilityoperated on commercial
principles with a long-term strategic plan-a markedimprovement since the early 1990s.
Management i s proactive and duringproject implementationused its initiativeto achieve cost
savings ina numbero f components and, as a result, didmore upgradingthanplanned(para
4.6). While billing andcollection rates are high, other financial indicators are not wholly
satisfactory, Table 3.

15.       Liepaja Water Company's total water demand declined by 35 percent between 1995
and 1999becauserehabilitation o fthe water mains reduced losses, and savings inducedby
higherwater prices. Unaccounted-for water losses fell from 34 percent to 17percent -
better than projected S A R levels o f 27 percent. Per capitawater consumption fell from 200
l/day in 1995 to 114 Vday in2002 -L W C expects per capita demandto bottomout at about

11.Duringappraisal, the Bank's regional water and sanitation advisor noted, "Icannot see the justification o f a
$16 million investment program inLiepaja with people left without water. After all, a safe and reliable water
supplytends to bepeople's first choice and wouldhelp the image o fLWWEandthe ability to raise and collect
tariffs." Bank Memorandum. June 6, 1994. Inthe SAR, it i s reported that approximately 90 percent o f
Liepaja's population was served by water supply and sanitation services (SAR paras 1.31-1.32) and that water
and wastewater services inthe former "military zone", an area formerly occupied by the Soviet military, were to
be handed over to LWWE (SAR para 1.27).

                                                         7


 105Vday in2008. Eventhough there were substantial tariffincreases, this didnot
compensate for the large decline inwater sales. L W C continues to purchase water from the
Lauma enterprise even though it now has excess capacity.'*

Table 3: Liepaja Water Utility Performance Indicators
                                   Indicator                        Target        Ex1993
                                                                                     Ante          Ex Post
                                                                                                     2000
Operational     Populationconnected to utilitywater supply           100%           90%              75%
                Populationconnected to sewerage                                     75%              75%
                Numberof Staff                                                      320              242
                Numberof Staff per 1000 Households                    <5#           12.9             -
                                                                                                     9.8
               Connected
               Water Sales (liters/capita/day)                        140           187              -
                                                                                                     114
               Non-RevenueWater (Production-                         27%            34%              17%
               Billings)/Production)
               Collection Ratio (Billings/Collections)               100%           50%              99%
Financial      Average Annual CombinedTariff $/m3                      ##          $0.12            $0.78
               Working Ratio a/                                      <50%           67%              78%
               Operating Ratio b'                                    ~ 8 5 %        72%             122%
Source: SAR and ICR, reports on file and interviewswith LWC managementand the City Council.
# This ratiowas not an appraisaltarget but the value shown (5) is typical best practice in developedcountries.
##A target tariff was not set at appraisal. Insteadthe tariff would be fixed following a study to determine the tariff
adjustmentneededto repay the World Bank and NEFCO loans.
a/ Working Ratio = (total O&M + non-corecosts)lTotalrevenues
b/ Operating Ratio = (total O&M + depreciation+ interestcosts)/Total revenues



 16.       The domestic tariff increased by almost 550 percent between 1994 and 2002, the
industrial and institutional tariffby even more, increases facilitatedby a public outreach
campaign financed by The Netherlands. Even so, L W C would like to raise water tariffs to
enableit to improve income andundertake further renovation and service extension. After
May 2002, when the government established a central regulator insteado f the city council to
fix tariffs, it was made clear to LWC that billing collection efficiency must beimproved.I3
Additionally, the city council arguedthat it was uncomfortable with further increases for
political reasons, and advocated a freeze on current tariffs for three years.

17.       Billingand collection improvedduringthe project and is about 99 percent. Butbilling
actual consumptiono f residents inapartment blocks is a major issue. The city council has
said that households without meters can only bebilled 10 m3per capitaper month even if
they consume more, or there are leakages betweenthe master meter andthe household. In
meteredapartments, however, the billing is on the basis o f the meter reading even when it is


12. Iti s probably loss-making as payment was made onhypothetical consumption norms (145 l/c/d) that were
higher than actual consumption.
13. LWC stated that it had differences with the regulator about the methodology usedto establish tariffs: issues
include treatment of loans and interest andprovisionof a sinkingfund.

                                                8


clear that the meter i s significantly under-recording consumption. Inboth cases, L W C has to
absorb the difference. Individual houses with meters, however, normally pay the full bill. In
consequence o fthese and other issues described, L W C has been unable to meet most o fthe
SAR's financial targets, but as all the financial ratios are improving inthe right direction, it i s
only a matter o ftime before L W C becomes a fully commercial operation. Rationalizationo f
staffing would help.

Objective5: EnvironmentalManagementandEco-TourismWere Promoted

18.     The environmental management activities proved, as expected, to be catalysts for
local communities taking responsibility for the sustainable development o ftheir areas.
Duringthe Second World War a largenumbero fpeoplewere deported to Germany, and
afterwards others were moved to Soviet gulag camps as the coastal zone became heavily
militarized. The Soviet deportations targeted local leaders and the educated, suppressing
local initiative and the capacity for innovation, and those who remained either served the
military occupation, collective farming, or fishing. Followingre-establishment o f
independence, much o f the state-owned lands were subject to privatizationandrepossession
bytheir pre-WWII owners. It was thus the government's intention to encourage community
buildingand self-reliance through the development of eco-tourismactivities within the
framework o f coastal zone protection laws (Annex B). Inparticular, two parishes -Jurkalne
inthe north andRucava, which includedLakePapeinthe south-were                chosen to pilot
sustainable environmental management activities.

19.     Jurkalne.A steering group assistedbythe WWF developed amanagement planfor
Jurkalne Parishin 1996. Following the principles o f integrated coastal zone management
(Annex B) the planintegrated the socio-economic interests o fthe community with its
environmentalassets, which includedcoastlines o f outstanding naturalbeauty. Activities
includedrepair o fthe mainbeach access, establishment o fparkingareas, camp-sites, bed-and-
breakfast accommodation, wildlife andwalking guides, tourist information center, andmulti-
lingual signposts on main trails andpoints o finterest. Community memberswere trained in
small business management, book-keeping, andlanguages, anda small grant schemewas
available to support other local initiatives. At the time o f OED's evaluation, the community
had successfblly sustained and expandedthe activities o fthe plan(even though foreign
assistancehad ceased four years earlier) andwas working with other communities inthe region
to replicate their success. The local socio-economic impact o fthe initiative has been substantial
(Figure 2). Although the S A R expectedthere to be a formal study that would evaluate the
direct andindirect revenues from local and internationaltourism, andassess the benefits to the
local community, this was not done.l4

20.     RucavaParishandLake Pape.As at Jurkalne, amanagement planwas developed
that focused primarily on the development o f the Lake Pape project area and its environs for
eco-tourism. A major result o fthis was that Lake Pape was added to the Ramsar
Convention's list o fprotected areas and a bird-watching tower was constructed. Unlike



14. SAR paras 5.6 -5.9

                                                          9


Jurkalne, however, the planhas been only
partially implemented because o fthe                                  Figure 2: Tourism at Julkarne
                                                                                                  1
complex nature o fthe area and                                 10.000
conflicting institutions.l5                                            1
                                                                         OTourists -days stayed
                                                                8,000
21.      Physicalimprovements were                                        Visitors to Information

implemented. A number o fcivil works to
redirect the LiegupeandPaurupe rivers
around Lake Pape andreconstruct the
outlet sluice gate o f Lake Pape were
completed. A municipal reed-cutting and
reed-binding business was established                                                                  L,   1

usingproject-purchased equipment that                                   1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001

employedabout 11people and soldmore                      Source: JurkalneParish Council. 2002
than60,000 bundlesofreedsworth about
$42,000 in2001. Poor design o fthe sluice exacerbatedby floods, causedthe sluice gate
structure regulatingthe level o f LakePape to subside in2002, thus becominginoperable.'6 As a
result, uncontrolled lake levels seriously hamperedreed-cutting in2002 andonly 10,000
bundleso freeds were harvested.

22.      The solution is not easy because o fthe largenumber o f stakeholders who hold
differing views onthe management o fthe lake and wetlands. The Department o f
Environment andthe Ministry o f Financeboth say they do not have the money for repair, the
several municipalities that own portions o f the lake andwetlands are unwilling to contribute,
and there appears to be a stand-off between the roads andhighways department, whose road
runsover the sluice, andRucavaparishcouncil, The inability o fmultiple stakeholders to
reach a consensus on what i s relatively a simple issue i s a microcosm o f the problems
slowing implementation o fthe integrated coastal zone management plan for the area.

23,      Despite these differing stakeholder perspectives, the Lake Pape area appears to be
successfully managed as a nature reserve -indications beingits active ornithological center,
the re-population o fthe adjacent pastures with indigenous horses andbisonto re-graze
overgrown ecosystems, andthe creation o f the Vitolnieki fishing-farm museum.

5.       Ratings

Outcome

24.      The outcome is rated satisfactory as the project achieved its relevant objectives
with minor shortcomings. The overall rating i s basedon the relative importance o f the five

15. There i s large territorial fragmentation of administration and governance inLatvia. There are 552 local
governments grouped into 26 district governments, which have voluntarily formed five planning regions.
Superimposed o n this are the various ministries and line agencies responsible for land use, environment, and
hydrology. Thus, any land-use planning has multiple stakeholders and conflicts are commonplace.
16. This was primarily the result of poor foundation design. Following Soviet practice, design was undertaken
bythe State Hydraulic Bureaulocated inRiga.

                                                      10


objectives. For the first major objective, reducingpollution from wastewater discharged to
the Baltic Sea, the most important activity was wastewater capture and establishing
financially viable wastewater treatment. Because the emphasis o fthe second major objective
was onpromoting environmentally sustainable management o fthe coastal zone, tourism, and
protectedzones, the criteria usedto judge achievement was the effectiveness o f the
promotion effort. These ratings o f objectives are elaborated inthe following sections and
summarized inTable 4.

Table 4: Ratings for Achievement of Major Objectives

                  Obiectives                       Relevance    Efficacy    Efficiency  OUTCOME

   1.   Reduce discharge o f partially treated and
        untreated wastewater to the Baltic Sea       High       Substantial Substantial Satisfactory

   2.   Restore and enhance the surface and
        groundwater quality in Liepaja, the
        northemportion of Lake Liepaja, the City   Substantial   Modest      Not rated  Moderately
        Channel, and adjacent beaches on the                                            Satisfactory
        Baltic Sea
   3.   Improvethe quality, reliability, and cost                                       Moderately
        efficiency o f water supply and sanitation Substantial  Substantial  Modest
        services in Liepaja                                                             Satisfactory

   4.   management systems o f the Liepaja
        Improve operational efficiency and         Substantial    High      Substantial Satisfactory
        Water and Wastewater Enterprise
   5.   managementanddevelopment ofthe
        Promote environmentally sustainable
                                                   Substantial   Modest      Not Rated  Satisfactory
        coastal zone, tourism, and protected areas
        inand around Liepaja and Ventspils

                                  Overall Rating   Substantial Substantial   Modest     Satisfactory



Relevance

25.      Overall relevanceof the objectives is substantial. The project was highlyrelevant
to the concerns o fthe Baltic Sea littoral states as it was designed to assist Latvia to
implement the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Program (JCP, para 1.2). It
was relevant to national political priorities that sought accession to the EU, reintegration o f
the Liepaja region into the Latvianmainstream (para 2.1), and the Bank's regional sectoral
strategy as indicatedby the Bank's position in 1993 at the Riga Workshop on Water and
Wastewater Utilities and the GdanskResource Mobilization Conference for the Baltic Sea
Environment Program.

26.      The Bank's 1994Country Economic Memorandum and Latvia Public Expenditure
Review recognized the need to support preventive measures (policies, assessment,
regulatory, planning, and economic) to avoid adverse environmental effects, and remedial
measures to address, inter alia, water pollution ina cost-effective manner. They also
encouraged projects that mobilized cofinancing resources from other international financial
institutions, bilateral donors, andNGOs. The continued relevance o f the project i s
emphasized by the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) the secondary objective o f

                                                       11


which was to build sub-national govemment capacity and help Latviadesign andimplement
human development reform programs and institution-building. Approval o f the bank-
financed Liepaja Solid Waste Management Project in2001 reaffirmedthe importance o f
pollution prevention and cleanup. Latvia's current priorities indicatedinthe 2002 CAS
include Bank assistanceto help achieve more balanced and sustainable development outside
Riga, thus promoting poverty reduction inthose areas.

Efficacy

27.      Efficacyis ratedas substantial.Highgovernment andregional stakeholder
ownership, and their coordination through the project, ensured that actions to achieve
reduction o fpollution discharged to the Baltic Sea, the City Channel and Lake Liepaja were
successfully implemented. The operational efficiency and management systems o f the L W C
were significantly improved and L W C is moving toward financial sustainability, thus
demonstrating substantial institutional development and strengthening. Integrated coastal
zone management, tourism, and protected areas were successfully promoted, albeit with
mixed results.

Efficiency

28.      Projectefficiencyis ratedas modest.The ICR estimated the financial rate o freturn
(FRR) for LWC to be minus 2.5 percent, the economic rate ofreturn(ERR)was estimated at
6.5 percent. Actual ERR, ifnon-monetizedbenefits could be included, would behigher but
byhow muchi s not certain. There were significant environmental, human, andpolitical
benefits resulting from reducedpollution plus tourism benefits at Jurkalne and Rucava and
biodiversity and ecosystem benefits around lakes Liepaja andPape. Politically, the cleanup
efforts were a clear signal that the environmental andhuman degradation associatedwith
Soviet occupationwere over. Attempts to capture the total economic value o f environmental
services -usingcontingent valuation methods -have been applied to the Baltic Sea in
Sweden, Poland, andLithuania to estimate the perceivedvalue o f reduced eutrophication.                 l7
The results from Sweden indicate that individuals were willing to pay about 0.5 percent o f
net income even though, unlike Liepaja, pollution was not a healthhazard and water quality
didnot impose limitations on swimmingandrecreation. Inaddition, it is possible that the
willingness to pay inthe Liepaja area was significantly larger than inSweden because
improvements were more dramatic (e.g., visible elimination of sewage from the City Channel
andbeaches, reduction o f smell, cancellation o f swimming bans, increased tourism).
Therefore, this evaluationbelieves that ifall these benefits could be quantified the ERR
would be higherthan 6.5 percent but it may not reach the 12percent fully satisfactory level.
Therefore efficiency i s rated as modest.


17. Gren, I.M,T Sondequist, F.Wulff, S.Langass, MSandstrom and C. Folke. 1996.Reduced Nutrient Loan to
the Baltic Sea: Ecological Consequences,Costs and Benejts. Beijer International Institute for Ecological
Economics. Royal Swedish Academy. Makowska, A. and T. Zylicz. 1996. Coasting an International Public
Good: The Case of the Baltic Sea. Warsaw Ecological Ecomics Centre, Warsaw University. Sonderqvist, T and
H.Scharin. 2000. TheRegional Willingness ToPay For ReducedEutrophication In TheSwedish Archipelago.
Beijer International Institute for Ecological Economics. Royal Swedish Academy.

                                                12


29.      The largest shortcoming o fthe project was not extendingapipedwater supply and
sewerage to all households inthe enlarged service area-this should have been a priority.
Next, unrealistic Latvian demandprojections ledto an oversized WWT facility and over-
optimistic projections o frevenue from sales o fwater and sewage services. Inconsequence,
the lower cash flows were unable to generate acceptable FRR.However, an oversized W W T
facility i s not so serious giventhat the spare capacity will be filly utilized when the military-
industrial area north o fthe city i s connected to the sewer systeminthe near term.

InstitutionalDevelopment

30.      The overallinstitutionaldevelopmentimpactis ratedas high.Most importantly,
achievements under the project facilitated the EUaccession process. There was a highlevel
o f development o f L W C as evidenced by successful reorganization, computerization,
information systems, skills upgrading, and strategic planning-greatly enhancedby
technical assistance from Nordic utilities under the twining arrangement and donors' support
for environmental management. The project fimctioned as a catalyst for the development of
local environmental legislation inline with EUstandards for water and sewer system
management. The success o f institutional development i s illustratedby the selection o fthe
L W C project implementationunit to manage the follow-on solid waste management project
financedby the EU, Sida, andthe Bank.Indeed, Sida considers the Liepaja PlUto be the
best-performing project unit inthe Baltic States." The process to establish realistic tariffs i s a
notable achievement by the City Council and its successor, the national regulator, but some
problemsremain.

31.      Support for coastal zone and conservation management, andtourism development
provided a forum for the DOE,Regional Councils, Regional Environmental Committees,
Parish Councils, NGOs, and external stakeholders to interact, thus bringingthe region into
mainstreampolitical life for the first time. Within the parishes, local citizens worked together
to develop local conservation and tourism management plans and facilities that are providing
important socio-economic benefits.

Sustainability

32.      Sustainabilityis ratedlikely. Government, municipal, andutility ownership is high,
and continued grant support from the central government, Nordic development partners,
NGOs, andthe EUto meet HELCOM and EUaccession targets i s highly likely. The water
supply andpollution managementtechnology carries few risks andthe capacity is large
enough to cover any foreseeable increase indemand for treatment capacity. It is likely that
LWC's medium-term cash flow problems will be solved by a combination o f tariff increases,
central government grants, and improved governance inmetering andbilling. Sustainability
o f the entrepreneurial skills o f local government and communities stimulated by the project
at Jurkalne and Rucava i s highlylikely.While a viable system o f integrated coastal zone



18. Sida 2000. Three Water And Environment Projects InEstonia, Latvia And Lithuania, Sida Evaluation
Report 00141.

                                                         13


    management i s not yet established, the debate i s highlylikely to be sustained given the high
    level o f local and intemational stakeholder interest.

    Bank Performance

    33.     Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.The Bankplayed a pivotal role in
   bringingtogether and coordinatingmultiplestakeholders to achieve the project's objectives
    and, inso doing, added considerable synergy to the process. The Bank loan, allied with
    grants enabled a diverse range o f activities linkingthe priority Latvia gives to pollution
   reduction with lower-priority environmental management -both o fwhich elevated Latvia's
    standing inthe Baltic and European community. The Bank's focus on, and continued
   pressure to achieve, sound utilitymanagement was centralto the success o f LWC. Without
   the Bank, it was likely that the government's attention would only have been given to
  pollution management and that the transition toward a commercially oriented City Council
   andwater utilitywould have taken longer. Central and local government andthebilateral
   donors were unanimous intheir praise for the knowledge, skills, anddedication o fBank staff
   andit is clear that a strong andtrustingpartnership was established. The only negative
   comments were about to the Bank's difficult procurement procedures and the delays these
   caused.

   34.      Despite the above, the Bank didnot give adequate attention to addressing policy
  issues surrounding extension o fpipedwater supply and sanitationto the whole population o f
  Liepaja. It i s not clear that the $140,000 allocated for this task to cover 10percent o f the
  municipal population (3,300 households or $42/household) was adequate. The rationale for
  the "financiers" agreement to delete this in 1995 andreallocate the finance i s unsatisfactory
  (para 13). Neither economic nor financialjustification was given, or an assurancethat the
  alternative service delivery arrangements were satisfactory to residents. The circumstances
  indicate that this was and i s a politically sensitive issue involving assimilation o f former
 Russiannationals into Latvia and, so soon after independence and appraisal, it may have
 been almost impossible to achieve an equitable solution. The ethnic issue was exacerbated by
  the delayed hand-over o f the Soviet military area and this also compounded the problem by
  expanding the potential service area o f LWC. However, it i s clear that there was no practical
  solution possible inlast two years o f the project with all hnds earmarked and/or contracted.
 Inmore recent years, the ethnicity issue hasbeenincreasinglyredressedand, onat anational
 level, there does not seem to be a systematic discrepancy inpoverty levels and service
provision betweenthe major ethnic groups living inL a t ~ i a .Currently, service extension is
                                                                             ' ~
beingconsidered for financing bythe EU.

Borrower Performance

35.        Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Ownership was highand proactive.
Government, Liepaja City Council, LWC, and the parishes inthe Liepaja region


~~~~            ~~                 ~~



 19. Aasland, Aadne. 1999. E t h c i t y and Poverty inLatvia. Fafo Institute for Applied Social Science. This
paper i s part of a larger project, sponsored by UNDP and the World Bank, the mainobjective o f which i s to
provide policy recommendations for development o f a National Poverty Eradication Strategy for Latvia.

                                               14


demonstrated a highlevel o f commitment to sound and sustainable utility and environmental
management andthis enabled achievement o fmost o fthe project's objectives.


6.       Findingsand Lessons

Findings

36.      ManagingPollution.While the upgradedwastewater treatment facility reduced
pollution levels to the Baltic Sea inaccord with HELCOM targets, this was accelerated by
reducedeconomic and industrial activity, andthe constraining effect o fincreasedwater
tariffs on demand. Nationally, once the most egregious and obvious sources o fpollution are
cleaned up, it will be necessary to move from an emission control regime to one that
considers the effects o fpollution within an environmental impact assessment framework;
only thus can clean-up and control priorities be objectively prioritized.

37.      Continued attentionto cutting LWC's costs and raising tariffs i s required to ensure
the longer-term viability o f the utility. The methodology for tariffsetting appears to need
furtherrefinement.Financial lossesto LWC causedbythe City Council's rules onmaximum
billing amounts for apartments and precedence o fhouseholdmeters over bulkmetersmustbe
quickly resolved. While usehl andpragmatic inmanaging and cleaning up pollution, the
willingness of the Nordic andEUagencies to use grants to achieve HELCOM objectives, and
government's willingness to give grant support to fillthe gap created by inadequate tariffs,
risks undermining the resolve o fthe municipality to ensure L W C becomes an independent
commercial entity.

38.      IntegratedCoastalZone Management.Each stakeholder appears to bepursuingits
own interests and not working for the ICZM. As illustration, the former and current mayors
o f Rucava were very successhl inpublicizing the development opportunities o fthe area and
attracted grant funding: examples include marketplace kiosks for traders, repairing houses,
and installing water closets so that bed-and-breakfast accommodationcould be established.
Onthe conservation side, single-species experts, some o fwhom see "nature" and
"environment" as separate entities, do not advocate a holistic ecological view; this conditions
M o E views.*OConversely, WWF believes, for example, that most o fthe money should be
usedfor activities relatedto promoting integratedecosystem development o f the area and
nature conservation.

39.      The problem is that the purposes o fthe management planfor the area are unresolved
because each stakeholder group has different goals. Local stakeholders want to attract
fundingto buildlocal infrastructure andprovide employment; foreign environmental
interests want to preserve Lake Pape and the coastal wetlands for nature and conservation
activities withinthe framework o f integrated ecosystems management; andthe government
o f Latvia's primary focus was on meetingthe EU's specific environmental directives to
ensure smooth accession. Thus, for example, the foreign environmentalists argued for a


20. Personal communication, Ugis Rotberg, WWF Riga.

                                                             15


bridge insteado f a sluice at the outlet o f Lake Pape as this would allow the re-establishment
o fthe natural wetlands and spawning links to the Baltic Sea that were lost when the first
sluice was installed in 1820. While this would be good for wildlife, it would obviously not be
so for employment, so the sluice was reconstructed usingproject finds. Even so, WWF still
propose that the wetlands betweenLake Pape andLake Liepaja (which were reclaimed for
collective farming after 1945) should berecreated by ceasing to drain the area. This action
would create a nutrient trap for runoff, thus protecting the Baltic Sea, and yield considerable
energy savings when pumpingceases.

40.        Insummary, the lack ofconsensusover the longer-termobjectives ofintegrated
coastal zone management around Lake Pape i s a reflection o f emerging Latvian priorities.
The former dominance o frelativelymoney-rich foreign interests came at a time whenpost-
Soviet Latvian institutions were still emerging. Subsequently, some o f the early Latvian
environmental idealism (which was the "Trojan Horse" leading to the collapse o f Soviet
occupation) has been cooledby the hardrealism o f overcoming highlevels of rural
unemploymentandpoverty which, in2000, stood at 28.5 percent.21Even so, the Latvian
Environmental ProtectionFundi s well-endowed with about $20 million a year from
environmental taxes and supports a large array o f activities. But, as with the activities under
the Liepajaproject, a recent evaluationnoted: "many specialists are not aware o fbroader
environmental issues and continue to work intraditional boxes -science, nature, environment
-withclearbarriersdividingtheirwork.'y22Thusgreatereffortsareneededtofoster
communication and coordination.

41.       Strongpartnershipswere key to the success of the project.They added synergy to
the individual efforts. Without the Bank's loanbeing tied to Nordic partners' grant finding
o fmost infrastructure improvements, twinning arrangements, andreciprocal visits for L W C
staffwithin the region, the Bank's efforts would have been much less effective. Similarly,
WWF finding and staff were the maindrivingforce behind the achievements in
environmental and conservationmanagement.

42.       Butbalancingpartnershipsis difficult.There is no commonly agreedbusiness
model for sustainable development among Baltic State govemments, donors, IFIs, and
NGOs. The use o f grants and tied aid, while welcome inLatvia, did little to address
sustainability issues. A particularly thorny issue raisedwas that the Nordic bilateral agencies
made several decisions on project issues without too much consultation with Latvian
counterparts who felt that this undermined local capacity-building anddemonstrated a lack o f
confidence andtrust inLatvian capabilities.

43.       Managementof the BalticSea PollutionRemainsa Problem.Despite these
achievements, several studies indicate there i s little apparent impact to date on the water



21, There i s no official poverty line inLatvia but the World Bank 2000 poverty assessment used a poverty line
o f 28 lats per month, which i s equal to half o f the official "minimum crisis basket" -a social minimumline
defined by the government.
22. Golder, Bronwen. 1998. TheState of the Environment and Environmental NGOs in Latvia -Perceptions
and Observations. WWF International.

                                                   16


quality o fthe Baltic Sea.23This i s not unexpected giventhe that only a decade has elapsed
since rampant pollution was endemic from the former Soviet Union, and that pollution
abatement and mitigation efforts only date from the mid-1990s. Apart from direct pollution
from coastal towns, more than three-quarters o fwater-borne pollution derives from difficult-
to-control non-point sources associated with landuse changes, agriculture, and forestry.
Accumulated stocks o fmunicipal and industrial wastes, some o f them hazardous, are a
problem. Transboundary pollution, while being reduced, is still a major issue with Lithuania
and Belarus.24Latvia i s only one o f six eastern Baltic countries that discharge water bourne
pollutants to the Baltic. Additionally, a substantial volume o fpollution is deriving from
rained-out aerosols from industryand power stations within and outside the Baltic Sea
watershed. And within the Baltic Sea, the minimal rate of exchange to the Atlantic Ocean
favors trapping and stocking o fnutrients and hazardous chemicals. It i s expected, however,
that regional efforts will reduce the effects o fmore readily controlled biochemical oxygen
demand and thus the extent o f toxic algal blooms. There i s a well-developed regulatory
structure anduse of economic instruments to control pollution inLatvia and other former
Soviet states, but the charges are not yet high enough to be effective -a task made less
palatable by the precarious state o f industry and the need for the employment it sustains.

44.      A New Initiatives To Help RegionalCoordination. InFebruary2003, the Global
Environment Facility (GEF) granted $5.5 million to assist HELCOM to implementthe Baltic
Sea Regional Project, which includes Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and the Russian
Federation. Adopting a large marine ecosystems approach to managing the Baltic, the project
targets cooperative management o f land, coastal, and marine trans-boundary issues with the
objective o f restoration o f ecologicalbalances. Through its support for environmental
management at the regional, national, and local level and strengthened assessment and
monitoring, it will enable support for the initiatives started under the Liepaja environmental
project.

Lessons

45.      There are three:

     k Regionally-sponsored environmental initiativesinresponseto inter-governmental
         action plansprovide good opportunities for the Bankto exercise its comparative
         advantage inleveraginginstitutional reformthrough targetedlending. When linked
         with grant fimding from bilateral development partners itprovides apowerful and
         influential lobby for reform.
    >    When designing and implementing regional environmental initiatives andtheir
         specific projects, significant benefits can be achievedby addressing infrastructure
         investments, environmental management activities and capacity buildinginan

23. HELCOM. 2001. Baltic Sea Environment Proceedings Nos 82A and 84; Baltic EnvironmentalForum 2000.
2ndBaltic State ofthe Environment Report.
24. Latvian Environmental Agency. 2002. Environmental Indicators in Latvia. Transboundary pollution
comprises 73 percent of the River Daugava's nitrogen discharge to the sea; 56 percent o f the River Lielupe's,
and 90 percent o f the River Venta's.

                                         17


 integrated manner. Mutlipliereffects will be achieved by careful attention and support
  for development of local institutions and their humanresources.

& It is importantto fully understand the interests and institutional capabilities of the
  various local stakeholders, specifically for community based activities, and to factor
  insufficient time andresources to builda consensusfor reform andagreement on
 issues and longer-term objectives. Care should taken to avoid project activities being
  drivenby external partners as this can undermine local ownership.


                                                  19                                      Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

LIEPAJA        ENVIRONMENTPROJECT(LOAN 3814 -LT)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                Appraisal          Actual or       Actual as % of
                                                Estimate        currentestimate   appraisalestimate
Total projectcosts                               21.17                23.38             108%
Loan amount                                      4.00                 4.00              100%
Cofinancing                                      11.22                12.22             109%
Cancellation



Project Dates
                                                       Original                    Actual
PCD                                                    07/09/93
Appraisal                                              06/24/94
Board approval                                         12/06/94
Effectiveness                                          05/09/95                   05/09/95
Mid-Term Review                                        09/25/97                   09/25/97
Closins date                                           03/31/00                   03/31/00


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                              Actual Staff Weeks          Actual US$('OOO)
Identification/preparation           55.3                      168.2
Appraisallnegotiation                50.6                      82.9
Supervision                         164.3                      321.4
ICR                                  10.5                      34.51
Total                               180.4                      607.01

                                                    20                                Annex A


Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle          No. of Persons and Speciality         Performance Rating
Monthffear                Number              Speciality         Implementation
                                                                   Progress      Development
                                                                                  Objective


Identification1Preparation  4   EnvironmentalSpecialist
                            2    EnvironmentalEngineer
                            2    EnvironmentalEconomist
                            1    ProcurementSpecialist
                            1    LegalAdvisor
                            1    EnvironmentalSpecialist
                            1    EnvironmentalSpecialist
                                 (FinlandlMOE)
                            I EnvironmentalEngineer
                                 (Sweden/Sida)
                            -1   EnvironmentalFinance
                            14   (SpecialisVNEFCO)
Appraisal                   4    EnvironmentalSpecialist
                            2    EnvironmentalEngineer
                            1    EnvironmentalEconomist
                            1    ProcurementSpecialist
                            1    EnvironmentalSpecilaist
                                 (FinlandlMOE)
                            1    EnvironmentalEngineer
                                 (SwedenlSida)
                            1    EnvironmentalEconomist
                                 (SwedenISida)
                            -1   EnvironmentalFinance
                            12   (Specialist(NEFCO)
Supervision
 06107195-06108195               EnvironmentalEconomist                                5
                                 EnvironmentalEngineer
                                 EnvironmentalSpecialist
                                 ProcurementSpecialist

 02113196-02116196               EnvironmentalEconomist                                5
                                 EnvironmentalEngineer
                                  FinancialSpecialist
                                  Organizationand Management
                                  Specialist
                                  ProcurementAnalyst

 06118196-06120196                EnvironmentalEconomist               5                5
                                  EnvironmentalEngineer
                                  FinancialSpecialist
                                  Organizationand Management
                                  Specialist
 01126l97-01128197                EnvironmentalEngineer                HS              HS
                                  FinancialSpecialist
                                  Organizationand Management
                                  Specialist
                                  EnvironmentalSpecialist
                                  ProcurementAnalyst
                                  OperationsAnalyst
 09124197-09126197                EnvironmentalEngineer                HS              HS
                                  Financial Specialist
                                  FinancialSpecialist
                                  Organizationand Management
                                  Specialist
 04125198-04127198                EnvironmentalEconomist                5               5
                                  EnvironmentalEngineers
                                  EnvironmentalSpecialist
                                  FinancialSpecialist
                                  Organizationand Management
                                  Specialist
                                  OperationsAssistant

                                                     21                                      Annex A



Stage of Project Cycle         No. of Persons and Speciality             Performance Rating
MonthNear                Number              Speciality            Implementation   Development
                                                                      Progress       Objective

I1/05/9a-i1/07/98          1    EnvironmentalSpecialist                  S                S
                           2    Environmental Engineers
                           1    FinancialSpecialist
                           1    Organizationand Management
                                Specialist
                           1    Operations Analyst
                           1    ResearchAssistant
06115199-06/17/99          1    EnvironmentalSpecialist                  S                S
                           1    FinancialSpecialist
                           1    Organization and Management
                                Specialist
                           1    Environmental Engineer
                           1    Operations Assistant
Completion                 1    EnvironmentalSpecialist                  S                S
                           1    Senior Technical Adviser
                           1    Environmental Economist
                           1    Environmental Engineer




Other Project Data
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
Operation                                         Loadcredit no.    Amount            Board date
                                                                  (US$ million)

LiepajaSolidWaste ManagementProject                 Loan 7033      2.22          September2000


                                                 23                                        Annex B1


Annex B1. Guidelinesto the Processof IntegratingEnvironment
and Economy


Noordwiijk Guidelines on     Ramsar Convention               IUCN-Parks for Life.
Integrated Coastal Zone      Guidelines for Management       On Protected Areas and Local
Management (ICZM)            Plans                           Sustainable Development
I C Z M focuses on three     1) Ingeneral, a                 0  Policies are needed so that
operational objectives:         Management                      the existence o f the
0   Strengthening sectoral      Plan i s a four part unit:      protectedarea encourages
    management, for          -- description                     the growth o f the local
    instance through            recognitiono f the past         economy insustainable
    training, legislation,      modification o f the area       ways. Local people will
    staffing                    and o f the possible threats.   then see the value o f the

0   Preserving and           -  evaluation and                  protected area as a source
    protecting the           objectives                         o f income and employment.
    productivity and         -  action plan                     Approaches mightinclude:
    biological diversity o f 2) A management authority       0  Marketing local products
    coastal ecosystems,         responsible for the             with the name o f the
    mainly through              implementationo f the           protectedarea on the label.
    prevention o f habitat      management process           0  Developing the marketing
    destruction, pollution      shouldbe appointed.             slulls o flocal communities
    and overexploitation     3)  When appropriate,              so that they are able to meet
0   Promotingrational           management plans                the needs o f tourists visiting
     development and             should incorporate both        protectedareas, especially
     sustainable utilization    traditional and modern          accommodationand meals.
     o f coastal resources.     tec~ologies.The Plan         0  Creating handicraft
                                mustreflect the overall         workshops, training
                                carrying capacity o fthe        facilities and shops inor
                                           Implementation       around the protected area,
                                 should optimize the             so as to encourage local
                                 sustainable use o f            crafts.
                                 existing resources.         0  Usingthe quality o f scenery
                                                                 and the peaceful
                                                                 surroundings to establish
                                                                health establishments and
                                                                rest homes.
                                                             0   Encouragingrural
                                                                 communities to develop
                                                                 local museums o f rural life,
                                                                 or other ways o f celebrating
                                                                 their relationship with
                                                                 nature.
                                                             0   Developing farm-based
                                                                 tourism linked to visiting
                                                                 protectedareas.


                                                25                              Annex B2


Annex B2: Law on CoastalProtectionwith Specificationof
Activities Prohibitedwithin three Zones
fi
Within 3-5km                                             Within 300m Offshore
e  Clearing o f forests            Cutting o f wood and     Quarrying o f sand, gravel
e  Parking o f cars and trailers   solitary trees           and other minerals
e  Tenting outside designated      Ground excavation and    Constructionworks
   areas                           boulder replacements
e  Fires outside designated        works
   areas                         e Material storing
e  Gardening                       Melioration works
e  Visitor facilities outside      Visitor facilities
   existing urban areas
e  Quarrying and mineral
   excavation
e  Littering
e  Use o f pesticides
e  Expansion o f existing
   construction works
e  Destruction o f landscape
e  Water level changes
e  Military activities


