Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20967
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(38140; P2530)
ON LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.00 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF LATVIA
FOR LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
September 28, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit (ECSSD)
Europe and Central Asia Region (ECA)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 01/01/2000)
Currency Unit = Latvian Lats (LVL)
LVL 1.00 = US$ 1.70
US$ 1.00 = LVL 0.59
FISCAL YEAR
Jan I  Dec 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM - Country Economic Memorandum
ECA - Europe and Central Asia
ERR - Economic Rate of Return
FRR - Financial Rate of Return
GEF - Global Environment Facility
EU - European Union
EU (Phare) - EU support program to countries in economic transition
JCP - Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program
LVL - Latvian Lats
NEFCO - Nordic Environment Finance Cdrporation
PER - Public Expenditure Review
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
QAG - Quality Assurance Group
SAR - Staff Appraisal Report
TA - Technical Assistance
USD - US dollar
WWF - Worldwide Fund for Nature
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Inesis Kiskis



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   18
6. Sustainability                                                                       19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      32
9. Partner Comments                                                                     38
10. Additional Information                                                              47
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    48
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    49
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    51
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    52
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    54
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       55
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   56
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008533                                        Project Name: LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT
Team Leader: Inesis Kiskis                                 TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: October 2. 2000
1. Project Data
Name: LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT                             L/C/TFNuimber: 38140; P2530
CountnylDepartment: LATVIA                                                 Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/09/93                                 Eflective: 05/09/95            05/09/95
Appraisal:  06/24/94                                   MTR: 09/25/97               09/25/97
Approval:  12/06/94                                 Closing: 03/31/2000           03/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  Government of Latvia/Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
Other Partners:  Liepaja Municipality, Liepaja Water Company, Rucava and Jurkalne parishes; EU
(Phare), Govemment of Denmark, Government of Finland, Government of
Sweden, Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO) and Worldwide Fund
for Nature (WWF). Supplemental assistance provided by Government of the
Netherlands.
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                            Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Basil G. Kavalsky                          Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      John A. Hayward                             Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:   Inesis Kiskis                              Stephen F. Lintner
ICR Primamy Author:  Inesis Kiskis; assisted by Paavo
Eliste; Kari Johansson; Stephen
F. Lintner
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inmpact: H
Bank Performnance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualitv at Entmy:                         HS
Project at Risk at A nv Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Oh ective:
The original objectives of the Project were to:
Component A - Water and Wastewater Improvement
*     Reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea.
*     Restore and enhance water quality in Liepaja, the northern portion of Lake Liepaja and
adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea.
*     Improve water supply and wastewater services in Liepaja.
*     Improve operational efficiency and management systems of the Liepaja Water and
Wastewater Enterprise.
Component B - Environmental Management
*     Promote preparation of a coastal zone management plan for the Baltic Sea coast of Latvia,
including the Liepaja, Ventspils, and Talsi regions;
*     Promote preparation and implementation of community based management plans for
protected areas at Lake Pape and Jurkalne; and
*     Support regional and local efforts for environmentally based tourism development.
The project objectives were clear and realistic. They were consistent with regional priorities
established by the Helsinki Commission with Latvian participation; national priorities as identified
in various environmental strategies; and the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) that was
based on extensive field visits jointly conducted by Latvian and Bank specialists. The project had
broad development impacts at the regional and municipal level. Component A resulted in
significant environmental improvements at the municipal level through better water and sewerage
services, improved water company management, and development of utility staff skills.
Component B developed over the course of implementation into a rural community development
project in the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes. In this instance, Bank supported activities served as a
catalyst for development of local initiatives.
The project was co-financed by the Government of Latvia, Liepaja Municipality, Governments of
Denmark, Finland and Sweden, the Nordic Environmental Finance Corporation (NEFCO), and
the World Bank. The Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) also served as a partner in the design
and implementation process. Although the number of financiers was relatively high, the
beneficiary proved its ability to manage multiple sources of financing and to follow the respective
procurement guidelines. As a result of highly efficient procurement, substantial savings were
achieved and carefully applied to expand the impact of the project.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Comlponents:
The project consisted of two complementary components:
Component A - Water and Wastewater Improvement
Water Supply and Distribution.
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment.
Contract Coordination/Supervision.
Technical Assistance and Training.
Support to Project Implementation Unit.
Component B - Environmental Management
Development of Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan.
Development of Management Plan for Lake Pape and Jurkalne Areas.
Development of Eco-Tourism Development Plan.
This was the Bank's first stand-alone environmental operation since Latvia joined the Bank after
regaining independence in 1991. Both components contained specific actions to build the
Borrower's administrative and financial management capacity at the national, municipal and local
level. Under Component A, this included a grant financed twinning arrangement with a Swedish
water and wastewater utility, technical assistance support to the Project Implementation Unit, and
courses on procurement and disbursement conducted by Bank staff at the beginning of project
implementation. Under Component B, the capacity of local governments, especially the Rucava
and Jurkalne parishes, to promote local community development was built through
implementation of management plans for the Lake Pape and Jurkalne areas, as well as through
development of the integrated coastal zone management plan and eco-tourism development plan.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions of the Project Components. However, there were limited working
level changes and modifications to the scope of contracts to be awarded. These changes reflected
the changing political and economic situation in Liepaja, and maximized benefits from the
advantages offered by various sources of financing and technical support that were available for
-3 -



the project.
Component                                              Cost         Rating
Water Supply                                            $1,700,000       HS
Sewerage                                                $9,300,000       HS
Wastewater Treatment                                    $3,100,000       HS
Technical Assistance for Liepaja Water and               $500,000         S
Wastewater Enterprise
Technical Assistance for Project Implementation Unit     $500,000        HS
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan                  $500,000        HS
Management Plan for Lake Pape                            $400,000        HS
Management Plan for Jurkalne                             $100,000        HS
Eco-tourism Development Plan                             $500,000         S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory; however, the QAG did not review this project. The project
was prepared by an interdisciplinary team that included the participation of representatives of the
Governments of Latvia, Finland and Sweden; NEFCO, World Bank and WWF. The Public
Expenditure Review (PER), supported by the World Bank chaired donor conference held in Paris,
endorsed implementation of a limited number of priority environmental investments, provided that
such investments were complemented by institutional strengthening activities. The project was
consistent with the objectives and recommendations of the Environmental Action Plan for Central
and Eastern Europe (Environment for Europe), and with the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive
Environmental Action Program (JCP) of the Helsinki Commission.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievementof objective:
4.1.1 The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. It achieved all its objectives, except for
that of attaining full cost recovery by Liepaja Water Company by the closing date. The Water and
Wastewater Improvement Component accomplished even more in physical and management
improvements than originally planned, and the activities under the Environmental Management
Component provided a major opportunity for the empowerment of local communities. Significant
skills were developed by the Liepaja Water Company in project planning and management,
- 4 -



including procurement and disbursement. Parish governments developed an ability to undertake
planning and development activities in a decentralized manner.
4.1.2 The project established a durable framework for:
Long-term sustainable operation of the Liepaja Water Company, which is providing the
inhabitants of Liepaja with quality services at affordable prices.
Gradual improvement of the quality of Lake Liepaja and the adjacent beaches on the
Latvian Baltic Sea Coast.
Improved environmental management practices at municipal and local levels within the
project area.
Uninterrupted community driven development that is oriented towards creation of local
employment and income generation opportunities for the rural population.
4.1.3 Throughout the project, the Bank maintained its strategic positions to support:
Preventive measures to avoid environmental impacts through the use of policy and
regulatory measures and environmental assessments.
Application of enviromnental planning methods and economic instruments to utility
management and coastal zone management.
Cost effective curative measures to alleviate existing water pollution, land use and
protected area management issues.
4.1.4 It should be noted that the assumptions used for calculations of the Financial Rate of Return
(FRR) from the project turned out to be overly optimistic. At the time of project preparation, the
water consumption volumes were expected to remain at 1993 levels up until 2010, whereas actual
consumption dramatically decreased, from 187 to 130 liters per capita/day, and stabilized at this
level only in 1999. This is a trend that has been demonstrated in related projects supporting
improvement of water and wastewater services in Haapsalu in Estonia, Daugavapils in Latvia and
Klaipeda and Siauliai in Lithuania. Given this widespread pattern, the ECA Region should
undertake an evaluation of the factors that result in these responses to changes in water prices,
their impacts on water utilities and on various water users.
4.1.5 The project was placed in Environmental Screening Category B, since it focused on
improving the environmental conditions on Latvia's Baltic Sea coast through both preventive and
curative measures. Activities proposed under the project were recognized by the cooperating
parties to potentially have limited adverse environmental impacts. Potential impacts of specific
activities were reviewed for each civil works contract, and adequate mitigation measures were
- 5-



subsequently implemented. The project was subject to regular field based review by well qualified
Bank and donor environmental staff. The implementation of the project proceeded in compliance
with the provisions of OD 4.01 (as of March 1999 - OP4.0 1). It should be noted that any
involuntary resettlement or land acquisition was not required.
4.2 Outputts by components:
The outputs are the following:
Component A - Water and Wastewater Management Improvements
The feasibility study for the water and wastewater improvements was prepared with funding from
EU (Phare) by Halcrow of the United Kingdom. Construction of improved facilities was
undertaken by Finnish, Latvian and Swedish contractors.
4.2.1 To reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea:
The rehabilitated wastewater treatment plant, which includes major new elements, has
been commissioned and its treatment efficiency is highly satisfactory, meeting HELCOM
Recommendations and national requirements.
lThe main pumping station was successfully rehabilitated, which allowed energy savings of
550,000 kWh/a.
Fifteen small pumping stations were rehabilitated using the cost savings obtained through
efficient procurement.
3560 m of sewers were rehabilitated, instead of just 2000 m, as was originally planned,
due to effective construction supervision.
3300 meters of sewers were fully reconstructed.
The City Channel siphon was installed.
The sewer cleaning vehicle was procured and is extensively used both in Liepaja and on
a contractual basis in other municipalities.
4.2.2 To restore and enhance water quality in Liepaja, the northern portion of Lake Liepaja and
adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea:
Discharges of untreated wastewater to the Channel and Lake Liepaja have been
significantly reduced by connecting the direct discharges to the sewerage collection
network and by rehabilitation of the network.
Improved performance of the upgraded wastewater treatment plant has had a positive
- 6 -



impact on reducing pollution levels at adjacent beaches and in nearshore coastal waters.
At the time of the ICR mission, Liepaja was granted a "Blue Flag," a certificate of clean
beaches, which is very important due to the role of beach-based recreational tourism in the
regional economy.
4.2.3 To improve water supply and sanitation services in Liepaja:
A total of 3600 m of new piping was constructed, and 8000 m were cleaned and tested.
The activities completed under the component eliminated leakages of approximately
800,000 m3/year, which corresponds to 17% of 1999 sales.
A number of equipment items, including a television inspection vehicle for sewers,
network operations software, repair clamps, pressure transducers, surveying equipment,
flow measurement, telemetry etc., were procured and are being successfully operated by
the utility.
In total, 1500 water meters were procured and installed.
As a result of cost savings, new water pumps were procured and installed, which resulted
in significant energy savings of 1.6 million kWh/year, corresponding to savings of
US$90,000/year.
With special support from the Netherlands, a public awareness and outreach program was
locally developed and implemented to make municipal decision makers, community groups
and citizens aware of the need for improvement of water and wastewater services, their
environmental and health benefits, and the need for a sustained commitment to these
efforts beyond the life of the project.
4.2.4 To improve the operational efficiency and management systems of the Liepaja Water
Company:
As a result of the project, Liepaja Water Company became a shareholding company with a
modem management structure that operates under commercial law.
The Company has prepared a strategic plan and is implementing system improvements on
an incremental basis using funds from local sources. In addition, it is seeking supplemental
grant support for improvements under various programs for European Union accession.
The financial situation of the company is improving under close oversight from owners
and staff, who fully recognize the need to provide cost effective services and to recover
costs from customers in a timely manner.
The company has adopted modem financial management models, including internationally
recognized accounting software.
- 7 -



The annual audits conducted in accordance with international auditing standards are
unqualified.
The water quality monitoring laboratory of the Company has been upgraded and is
collecting samples and making tests on a daily basis.
The owners and staff are committed to further development of their skills in order to fully
benefit from the recently introduced management approaches and tools.
The project also encouraged the Municipality of Liepaja to consider and undertake
changes in the management and ownership structure of other municipal companies,
including those for district heating, solid waste and transport.
Component B - Environmental Management
4.2.5 To promote environmentally sustainable management of the coastal zone and protected
areas in and around Liepaja, Ventspils, and Talsi regions, including management of tourism
development:
It should be noted that during the Soviet period, the City of Liepaja and the adjacent coastal
region covered in the project were a high security zone with restricted access due to the diverse
military installations in the area. An important objective of the Government of Latvia, acting
through the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, was to use the project to
support reintegration of this area into the again independent Latvia. In this context, the
Component introduced use of decentralized approaches in preparation of the coastal zone
management plan, protected area management plans and tourism development plans. These
activities provided an opportunity for national, county, municipal, parish and nongovernmental
organizations to cooperatively identify key development issues and propose practical actions that
could be implemented in a phased manner. They also provided a basis for medium and long-term
development of this region in an environmentally sound manner.
It is important to underline that the Environmental Management Component, over the course of
implementation, evolved into a community driven development project at the county and parish
levels. This process was most effective in the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes where elected
representatives participated in a range of activities. At the parish level, the Component
represented a very successful "marriage" with the advisory teams provided by the Danish, Latvian
and Swedish branches of the WWF. The WWF should receive credit for its effective introduction
of participatory approaches into planning techniques and the parishes should be noted for their
high level of receptivity to new ideas. The experience from these community based activities will
be expanded to other locations in Estonia, Latvia,. Lithuania, Poland and the Russian Federation
under the GEF supported Baltic Sea Regional Project.
4.2.6 To prepare an integrated coastal zone management plan for the Baltic Coast of Latvia as a
model activity for environmnental planning in the country:
- 8 -



The integrated coastal zone management plan was prepared by DEVCO of Ireland and
Tebodin of the Netherlands with support from EU (Phare).
The Plan for the Baltic Sea Coast of Latvia was prepared in close cooperation with
national and local authorities.
The Plan was successfully prepared under the coordination of the Ministry of Environment
and Regional Development in cooperation with county, municipal and local governments.
community based groups, and local nongovernmental organizations.
This included development of a national management plan that is supplemented by local
studies for Slitere, Ventspils, Pavilosta, Liepaja and Nica/Rucava.
The plan also included a priority action and demonstration program that provides a basis
for phased implementation of the plan.
Development of the Plan benefited from a consultation process that involved participation
of a wide range of stakeholders and provided many citizens with an opportunity to express
their vision of future coastal development in the region.
The Plan contains a detailed inventory of the physical, biological and socio-economic
features of the region, examines potential development conflicts and presents a list of
practical actions to be undertaken at a number of levels to provide both environmental and
economic benefits.
National and local representatives participated in well-planned study tours to review the
experience in coastal management in Ireland and the Netherlands.
The regional office of the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development was
provided with computers and a basic geographic information system.
A number of the proposed activities are being considered for implementation with
financing from national, local and external sources, including the GEF supported Baltic
Sea Regional Project.
4.2. 7 To formally establish Lake Pape and Jurkalne as protected areas and prepare community
based management plans:
*     The management plans for the Lake Pape and Jurkalne areas were prepared and
implementation was launched by the Danish, Latvian and Swedish branches of the WWF
in close cooperation with the local authorities, with funding from Denmark.
In Lake Pape area (Rucava parish, 1600 inhabitants) the following activities were
undertaken:
-9-



-     Lake Pape protected area was formally established and surveyed and listed as a site
of international significance to migratory birds under the Ramsar Convention.
-     Multilingual information signs have been posted.
-     Sluice gates were built.
-     A bird watching tower was built.
-     A local credit union was established and is functional.
-     Wild horses and cows were introduced into the ecosystem of Lake Pape.
-     Multilingual leaflets advertising Rucava and its amenities are being regularly
published & distributed both internationally, in Lithuania and locally.
-     A tree nursery has been created.
-     Camping sites and information signs have been built or refurbished.
-     Farm based eco-tourism has been developed for foreign and local visitors.
-     A reed harvester was purchased, and is operated by a newly established company,
providing employment for 13 people.
-     Planning methodology introduced during the project is now fully adopted for
use in everyday work of the Parish management.
In Jurkalne (Jurkalne parish, 400 inhabitants) the following activities were undertaken:
-     Jurkalne protected area was formally established and surveyed.
-     Multilingual information signs have been posted.
-     Multilingual leaflets advertising Jurkalne and its amenities are being regularly
published and distributed both internationally and locally.
-      'Camping sites were built.
-     Farm based eco-tourism has been developed for foreign and local visitors.
-     Planning methodology introduced during the project is now fully adopted for use
in everyday work of the Parish management.
4.2.8. An eco-tourism development plan was prepared and approved by Latvian authorities:
An Eco-Tourism Development Plan for the Western Coast of Kurzeme was prepared with
funding from Finland by Metsahallitus -Forest and Park Service and Turku University
Center for Extension Studies.
The plan was set up through an extensive participatory process with national, municipal
and parish governments. community based groups. local nongovernmental organizations
and individual cititzens.
The eco-tourism development plan contains analytical data and maps prepared on a
regional and site specific basis and features a detailed list of priority actions to be taken by
national and local authorities, communities and the private sector.
The process also included a Management Plan for Ziemelkurzeme National Park, which
was prepared with funding from Finland by Metsahallitus - Forest and Park Service. This
- 1 0 -



would cover activities in the area occupied by the Liivi people who are an ethnic minority
speaking a language related to Estonian and Finnish.
The proposed Ziemelkurzeme National Park has not been formally founded yet, as the
Government is continuing discussions with the Liivi people on the Park's operational
modalities.
A number of the proposed activities are being considered for implementation with
financing from national, local and external sources, including the various European Union
supported programs and the GEF supported Baltic Sea Regional Project.
4.3 Net Present V'alue/Economic rate of retuirn:
The methodology used to calculate the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) may not provide an
accurate picture about the true financial performance of the company since it is based on total
operating revenues and costs. To account for this deficiency, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
for the project was estimated; incremental revenues and operating costs resulting from Liepaja
Water Company's overall investment were used to calculate the project rate of return.
The project ERR was 6.5 percent, which is in line with other water and wastewater projects in the
ECA region. For example, project rate of return for Istanbul Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(completed in 1998) was 6.4 percent, which was half of the ex ante forecast of 13.6 percent.
Table 1. Average Actual vs. Appraisal Estimates of the Operational Indicators in the
Liepaja Water Company
Actual       Appraisal
(1995-99)    (1995-99)
Volume of water sold (Mill. m3)                 30.9          38.0
Per Capita Water Consumption (Ipcd)              150          160
Unaccounted for Water, %*                        17           27
Gross operating revenues, (Mill. LVL)           9.9           12.6
Gross operating costs, (Mill. LVL)              8.0           7.5
Operating Margin, (Mill. LVL)                   0.3           5.2
Depreciation, (Mill. LVL)                        1.3          1.6
At the end of the project
- 11 -



Figure 1 shows the dynamics of the actual vs. appraisal estimates of operating costs and revenues
during project implementation.
Figure 1: Actual vs. Appraisal Estimates of Operating Revenues and Costs ('000 LVL)
3,500.0
-A
3,000.0
2,500.0
*"'
,0-  Gross operating revenues (Actual)
x /~- ~ - X  _ Gross operatin costs (Actual)
A'                         -  -             - - Gross operating revenues (Appraisal)
1,500.0                                                   - -r - Gross operatin costs (Appraisal)
1,000.0 -. 
500.0
0.0
1995      1996      1997       1998      1999
The project ERR should be interpreted as a conservative lower bound estimate of true rate of
return since it fails to take into account significant economic benefits generated by the project.
First, by relying on actual tariffs it fails to capture consumer surplus, a widely used measure of
economic benefits that is computed as difference between the price/tariff a person is willing to pay
and what he/she actually pays. Secondly, the methodology used in the SAR ignores economic
benefits resulting from increased property values and improvements of environmental quality.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 The ex post FRR of the project is negative 2.2 percent, which is in deep contrast with the
appraisal estimate of 13.7 percent. The FRR was calculated using the same methodology as the
SAR and it includes the Liepaja Water Company's other investments during the project period
plus new investments in an iron removal plant in 2000 and 2001. Key issues include:
The main reason for the lower than expected rate of return was significant reduction in
water sales and a resulting decrease in operating revenues during the project period. Water
sales in Liepaja were 19% lower than SAR projections during 1995-99 (30.8 million m3
vs. 38 million m3 in SAR). Daily domestic water consumption declined from 171 I/pcd to
133 I/pcd during the same period, a 22% decrease. Liepaja Water Company's total water
production declined 35% during the period from 1995 to 1999, which reflects not only
declining demand but also reduced water losses (accounted for water); unaccounted for
water was reduced from 34% to 17% during the project period compared to 27% in SAR
- 12 -



projections.
Better than planned tariff adjustment (in real terms) was not able to compensate for the
large decline in water sales. Total operating revenues were only 79 percent of the appraisal
estimate over the life of the project (LVL 9.9 million versus LVL 12.6 million estimated at
appraisal).
Total operating costs were somewhat higher than SAR estimates (LVL 8.0 million versus
LVL 7.5 million of appraisal estimate). The main reasons for higher operating costs were
rapid escalation of input prices (in real terms), such as electricity, water purchases from"
Lauma Water," materials and supplies, etc, and increased recurrent current costs during
the initial years of the project due to new capital investments.
As a result of the above, the operating margin for the project period was only 5 percent of
SAR projections during the project (LVL 0.3 million compared to an appraisal estimate of
LVL 5.2 million). This is largely due to negative operating margins from 1995 to 1998.
4.4.2 The financial performance of the Liepaja Water Company improved steadily during the
project. These changes include:
The operating margin, a major indicator for capital cost recovery, improved over the life
of the project, from negative 49 percent in 1995 to 25 percent in 1999 (Figure 2). Similar
trends were present for other financial indicators such as operating ratio and working
ratio, both which improved significantly over the life of the project (from 165 to 118 and
from 149 to 75 respectively).
- 13 -



Figure 2: Actual vs. Appraisal Financial Indicators
200
150 -<
100                           .5-
Per             X        - -- '''-  Operabng margin (Actual)
ce                                        ---- -- Operatin raio (Actual)
e 50 -                                                          *---- Working rato (Actual)
eX  - -  -   - - - -  X  -  -  - - - - - - - . . .  - Operating margin (Appraisal)
- - -    x -   - '                                | - -)tE - Operatin ratio (Appraisal)
{      1- --- Working rato (Appraisal)
1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
-50   
-100
In spite of strong improvement in financial performance the company was not able to
comply with the financial covenant as defined in the Project Agreement, Section 4.02:
"Total revenues to be not less than total operating expenses plus the amount by which
debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation plus provisions for
maintenance and bad and doubtful debts plus proper asset depreciation reflecting
replacement cost." The operating margin was below the target level of 40 percent, which
is required for full cost recovery. This applies also to operating ratio and working ratio
which were both below the SAR estimates.
lThe bill collection plan was finished before December 1997 - well before the target. Bill
collection for the Liepaja Water Company has improved substantially since then. With old
debt payments, the overall collection rate as well as the one for domestic customers was
nearly 100 percent in 1998.
The budgetary and account system was completed by introducing a new computerized
accounting system (SCALA), although with a deferred time schedule.
The tariff study was completed as agreed in the SAR, although with a deferred time
schedule.
The company has fulfilled the expectations of the SAR regarding tariff escalation in real
terms. However, tariff adjustment was not sufficient to compensate for declining water
sales.
- 14 -



Generation of internal cash improved significantly over the project period from negative
0.34 million LVL in 1995 to 0.23 million in 1999.
Table 2. Average Actual vs. Appraisal Financial Indicators
Actual         Appraisal
(1995-99)      (1995-99)
Gross revenues per m3 water sold           0.33           0.33
Gross operating costs per m3 of water sold  0.26          0.20
Operating margin, %                        -5             40
Operating ratio, %                         105            73
Working ratio, %                            130           60
4.5 Institutionial deivelopnment impact:
The project had a significant institutional development impact at a number of complementary
levels that will carry beyond the objectives of the completed project. The most important impacts
were having the cooperating organizations: (a) move from a "reactive" to a "proactive" approach
in undertaking their work; (b) recognize the need for a diversity of parties to undertake, plan and
manage tasks; and (c) open themselves to new ways of doing things. The most pervasive
comment from project participants was that "it changed the way we think."
4.5.1. Ministry of Environment and Regional Development.
The Ministry developed skills in planning and management of large internationally funded
projects that include both investment and institutional development activities. This
experience has already been successfully applied to a number of additional projects
supported by the Bank, European Union and bilateral donors.
The Ministry gained operational experience in the use of decentralized approaches to
project planning and management of projects that allow the regional offices of the
Ministry, municipal governments, water and wastewater utilities and local communities to
take an active role in these activities.
The Ministry significantly improved its skills in preparation of Terms of Reference and
Technical Specifications, in evaluation and selection of consultants and in negotiation o.f
contracts for goods and services. It also gained experience in the management of financial
resources from multiple sources and the application of a diversity of procurement
procedures.
- 15-



The Ministry, at the national and regional office level, gained experience in development
of integrated coastal zone management plans and eco-tourism development plans. The
studies involved cooperation between physical planning and environmental management
groups within the Ministry and those of local authorities.
*     The project, especially the coastal zone and eco-tourism studies, provided the Ministry an
important opportunity to become experienced in the use of participatory based approaches
to planning and management that involve a wide range of stakeholder groups.
4.5.2. Municipality of Liepaja
*     The Municipality of Liepaja, during the course of the project, developed skills in planning,
management, negotiation and implementation of internationally funded investment and
institutional development projects. This has provided the basis for a number of additional
projects, including the Bank supported Regional Solid Waste Project, which will upgrade
the solid waste disposal facility for Liepaja.
The Municipal Government learned about complex issues related to sound utility
management, including the process of tariff adjustment, loan repayments and properly
funding operation and maintenance of investments under market economy conditions. It
also became familiar with the processes of consultation and outreach to the public
concerning the sensitive issue of tariff adjustments. It learned about measures that can be
used to protect parties on low and/or fixed incomes from adverse impacts associated with
changes in the rates for services, including water and wastewater.
The Liepaja Municipality gained experience in transforming various government owned
services into companies that can improve their management and increase the cost
effectiveness of operations. It also carefully observed the activities undertaken under the
project and has advised the Bank that it would like to have a nurnber of its utilities prepare
strategic plans given the positive experience from the Liepaja Water Company.
4.5.3. Liepaja Water Company
As a result of the project, the Liepaja Water Company became an independent enterprise
under Latvian law and now operates on commercial principles. It is independent of the
Municipality of Liepaja, has its own Board of Directors and is able to obtain funding on its
own. Although tariffs are still set with approval of the City Council, it is moving toward
financial autonomy.
The Liepaja Water Company has become a utility with a modern management structure
and capacity to plan and conduct its operations in a sustainable way over the long term.
Although the management structure is modern, the owners, management and staff are still
in the process of learning how to obtain the maximum benefits from these arrangements.
In order to continue the process of change, the Company has made arrangements for
- 16 -



NEFCO to participate as an observer on its Board of Directors and to continue its
twinning arrangement with Norrk6ping Water Company.
The Liepaja Water Company has developed significant skills in the planning and
implementation of investment and institutional development activities. Its PIU, now
operating as an independent company, has developed significant skills in project
management, including all phases of the procurement and disbursement processes. It is
able to prepare Bidding Documents, Technical Specifications and Terms of Reference;
evaluate bids and proposals; and conduct negotiations. It also has skill in the supervision
of contractors and consultants, application of warranties, and in use of specialist
consultants.
The Liepaja Water Company has prepared and is in the process of implementing a
strategic plan that provides a framework for improvement of the legal basis of the
Company, management of operations, upgrading of physical facilities and development of
human resources. The Company found that the strategic planning process was very
important in assisting it to identify priorities and approach its vision for the future in a
structured manner. The strategic plan has also made it easier for the management of the
Company to deal with the Municipal Government and its Board of Directors.
The Liepaja Water Company has also become skilled in its presentation of requests for
management changes, tariff adjustments and technical improvements to its Board of
Directors, City Council, and to the public at large. It has developed an ability to obtain
direct funding from the municipal investment budget for incremental improvements to its
system, strengthened its ability to collect and apply user fees and charges; and to seek and
obtain funding for international sources for improvements beyond the scope of the project.
4.5.4. Parish Governments
The project had a tremendous impact in changing the mindset of the people living in
remote rural areas. It created an awareness at the comrnmunity level of the need to move
away from being passive recipients of central government subsidies towards becoming
proactive promoters of various employment generating projects and programs. This has
been fully apprehended both in Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes, and also is increasingly
appreciated by the neighboring parishes.
The preparation of the integrated coastal zone management plan and eco-tourism
development plan, through the use of participatory approaches and consultations with
approximately 20 parishes, introduced the local governments and participating residents to
the linkages between physical planning and environmental management, and the use of
participatory approaches in the identification and review of development approaches and
environmental goals.
Cooperative preparation of the management plans for Lake Pape and Jurkalne provided
Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes the opportunity to become directly involved in the
- 17-



development process. Participants advised the Bank that these were highly educational
activities and that the development, presentation and defense of business plans for
small-scale grants was extremely useful. Overall they noted that the project had
empowered them to identify and address issues using their own skills and resources.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgoi'ernment or implenmenting agency:
Changes in world market conditions and regional political events did not have an adverse impact
on achieving project objectives. The inclusion of Latvia in the European Union accession process
during the later stages of project implementation served to reinforce Latvian commitments to
implementation of the Helsinki Convention as well as the national environmental program.
5.2 Factors generallv suibject to go] ernment control:
The Government, through its Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, contributed to
the success of the project with a sustained commitment to the project as a national priority. This
included expedient review and a constructive approach in resolving emerging problems, such as
applicability of effluent water standards for design of a wastewater treatment plant. Counterpart
funds were allocated and disbursed on time. An important factor in project success was the
stability of senior management in the Ministry throughout the preparation and implementation
period.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implenmenting agency control:
Component A. Water and Wastewater Improvement. Effective and efficient performance of
the Liepaja City Council, management of the Liepaja Water Company and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) were critical to success of the Component. At all these levels senior
officials, management and staff were open to new ideas and responsive to suggestions made by
the Bank and co-financiers during supervision missions. The positive outcome can be largely
attributed to efficient procurement work done by the PIU, which was able to maximize the
benefits through skilled application of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Especially important was the willingness of the cooperating parties to make significant changes to
modernize the Liepaja Water Company's management structure. During the project, the Liepeja
Water Company was incorporated as a shareholding company, and currently it operates under
commercial law. Also, a Board of Directors with functions and composition reflecting modem
trends in corporate management was created. Although due to legal obstacles it proved
impossible for NEFCO to become a minority shareholder in the Liepaja Water Company, it was
invited to become a non-voting member of the Board of Directors. All co-financiers see this as a
move that will strengthen sustainability of the Liepaja Water Company and provide access to the
expertise and experience of NEFCO after the project is formally closed.
Component B. Environmental Management. The component benefited from the sustained
commitment of the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development to undertake this activity
in a decentralized manner and to effectively engage a wide range of stakeholders. The willingness
- 18-



of Latvian counterparts, at all levels, to combine physical and environment planning concepts and
to use new participatory based approaches in coastal zone management made a major difference
in the quality of this activity. The pro-active position adopted by the management of Rucava and
Jurkalne parishes was most critical for success of the Environmental Management Component and
fostered development of community based activities that empowered the parishes. In addition, the
ability of Latvian counterparts to adopt alternatives to traditional mass-based tourism brought
about short-term results through small-scale development of farm based eco-tourism and targeted
tourism promotion activities.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The project experienced neither cost overruns nor any major delays in disbursement. On the
contrary, it was completed ahead of the original schedule. However, some reallocation of funds
took place between sub-components, as described in paragraph 3.4. This allowed adjustment of
project implementation to match the changing real-time situation, and to maximize utilization of
the available funding - both loan and grants. NEFCO and the cooperating donors provided their
funds in a timely manner and closely coordinated with the Bank and Latvian authorities on
financial matters through regular contacts with the Task Manager and Resident Mission staff and
their participation in supervision missions.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale ]r suistainabilitv rating:
Sustainability of the project, under both components, is "likely" due to the following
considerations:
Component A - Water and Wastewater Improvement
The Liepaja Water Company has a stable management structure and is committed to
improving services to its clients with due respect for existing affordability limits.
The Liepaja Water Company is open to implementing innovative managerial and
operational techniques and has developed a strategic plan to guide future actions.
As a result of the project, particularly the twinning agreement, the staff of the Liepaja
Water Company has considerably improved its skills and is open to adopt new
management approaches and technologies. In addition, a decision has been made by
Latvian and Swedish authorities to continue the twinning arrangement beyond the
completion of the Project.
The Board of Directors of the Leipaja Water Company underwent training in Sweden, is
open to furthering its skills and is taking a proactive role in oversight of the Company.
The Liepaja Water Company is committed to constantly increasing environmental
- 19 -



standards and has a good knowledge of the requirements of the European Union, Helsinki
Commission and Government of Latvia.
The financial situation of the Liepaja Water Company is improving and the members of the
Board are providing strong support to the management to improve financial performance
over the short and medium-term.
The Liepaja Municipality, as an owner, consistently supports the Liepaja Water Company
through timely tariff adjustments, and avoids passing decisions that would damage the
operations and financial conditions of the Company.
The Liepaja Municipality has declared its financial commitmnents to the Liepaja Water
Company for the next 5 years to support incremental improvements in the system as part
of its strategic plan. This has included an allocation of LVL 200,000 for 2001. In addition,
the Company has recently made investments of LVL 250,000 using its own resources.
The Government of Latvia is committed to change, and the legal environment for
operations of water companies has been consistently improving.
Component B - Environmental Management
The Ministry of Environment and Regional Development has adopted a decentralized
approach to environmental planning and management that has been reinforced by the
experience gained under the Environmental Management Component of the Project.
A large number of parties at the national, county, municipal and parish level now have
experience with the use of participatory based planning and management approaches that
were demonstrated under the Component and these have already been applied in other
activities.
The coastal zone management plan for the Baltic Sea Coast of Latvia is being used as a
tool for decision making and planning and further efforts are being extended to the Gulf of
Riga Coast of Latvia.
Lake Pape has been for mally established as a protected area under the Ramsar
Convention, Jurkalne has also been given proper protection and both have completed
management plans prepared with input from the local communities.
The Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes are proactive in implementing the management plans
and ideas they developed during the life of the project.
Actions are being taken to implement eco-tourism development plans, and small-scale
tourism, attracting national and international tourists, is developing.
The Baltic Sea Regional Project will support expansion of community based approaches to
- 20 -



implementation of coastal zone management on the basis of the successful experience
under the Liepaja Environment Project, with additional interventions in Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland and the Russian Federation.
6. 2 Tiransition arrangement to regular operations:
Component A - Water and Wastewater Improvement. The Liepaja Water Company has
already moved into regular operation, as project implementation overall was oriented to this goal.
A number of formal agreements have been reached, and indicators for monitoring future
operations of the Liepaja Water Company are in place:
The formal transition agreements include:
NEFCO is a non-voting member of the Board of Directors of the Liepaja Water
Company.
Liepaja Municipality will support LVL 200,000 investment each year by the
Liepaja Water Company over the next five year period for renovation/extension of
water and sewerage networks.
Liepaja Water Company will continue its cooperation with the Norrk6ping Water
Company in Sweden, which was its formal twinning partner during project
implementation.
Performance indicators include, but are not limited to:
Financial and operational:
(i)    Operating margin.
(ii)  Improved collection rate.
(iii)  Percentage of unaccounted water.
(iv)   Number of Employees per 1 km of network.
Environmental:
(i)    BOD7.
(ii)   Suspended solids.
(iii)   Nt.
- 21 -



(iv)   P
For more details see Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators.
The Project team is confident that the Liepaja Water Company has matured during the years of
project implementation, and is fully capable of continuing its independent operations. NEFCO's
presence on the Board of Directors of the Liepaja Water Company can be viewed as a safeguard
for continuity of current operational practices. The PIU of Liepaja Water Company will remain in
close contact with the Bank, as it will take an active part in extending its services to the second
generation Bank project in Liepaja, namely, the Regional Solid Waste Management Project. In
addition, the Liepaja Water Company has participated in a program supported by NEFCO and the
World Bank to have its performance indicators benchmarked with those of a series of cooperating
water and wastewater utilities in Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Sweden so that
it can compare its performnance with the other companies.
Component B - Environmental Management. This component focused on the introduction of a
series of environmental management approaches into Latvia at a variety of levels. As noted above
in Section 6. 1, these approaches have been more broadly adopted by the national government,
which has continued to apply a decentralized approach, increased linkages between physical and
environmental planning and is using participatory approaches, involving a range of stakeholders,
in a number of its activities. The Government at the national and regional level is supporting
phased implementation of the integrated coastal zone management plan and the eco-tourism
development plan. At the local level, the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes are involved in
implementation of their management plans, which include the Lake Pape and Jurkalne protected
areas. It is anticipated that the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes, in conjunction with the WWF and
World Bank, will have a role in the integrated coastal zone management element of the Baltic Sea
Regional Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending.
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory.
Identification:
-     The project was prepared as a response to a request of the Government of Latvia,
which under its obligation as a Contracting Party to the Helsinki Convention and
as a national environmental priority, had committed itself to clean up of the Baltic
Sea. The project was identified, prepared and appraised in close cooperation with
the Government, as well as with the Helsinki Commission, potential donors and
the WWF.
-     The Bank's team represented a good mix of environmental, technical, economic
and procurement specialists with extensive knowledge of the sector and Bank
- 22 -



operations. The team was comprised of Headquarters and Field office based staff
who all possessed good knowledge of local conditions.
The Bank was very helpful to the Government of Latvia in designing the
two-component project concept, which introduced market based approaches in the
water and wastewater management sector, placed particular emphasis on
institutional strengthening of the water utility and also provided for demonstration
of new environmental management approaches in the adjacent area.
The feasibility studies, which were part of the Helsinki Commission coordinated
effort to clean up the Baltic Sea, were prepared under close supervision by
specialists from Finland, Sweden, NEFCO and the Bank.
Appraisal:
During appraisal, the Government of Latvia and the ultimate beneficiaries of the
project remained highly committed to the project.
As this was one of the first Bank operations in Latvia, the capacity of the
Borrower and the beneficiary to implement the project was limited. Therefore, a
substantial effort was made to provide the Borrower and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with adequate training. The project also provided for
loan and grant financed technical assistance. The former was targeted to
preparation of bidding documents, while the latter dealt primarily with institutional
and technical capacity building. It should be noted that PIU staff attended a four
day procurement training, and a three day disbursement training, which were
conducted by senior procurement and disbursement specialists from the Bank.
In terms of components, the project design was straightforward. It was, however,
quite complex in terms of procurement and financing arrangements, as the PIU had
to follow multiple procurement and disbursement guidelines imposed by various
co-financiers.
A number of risks were identified during appraisal. These included:
o     Slippage from the original schedule due to limited experience of the
Government of Latvia, Liepaja Water Company and PIU in management
and implementation of a project of this scale and complexity. This was a
legitimate risk, but adequate measures were taken to train the respective
staff, and the project was completed ahead of schedule.
o     A risk that the Government of Latvia and Municipality of Liepaja would
face difficulties in providing the counterpart funding in a timely manner. At
certain points the Government of Latvia and Municipality of Liepaja had
difficulties in meeting their commitments, however eventually all the funds
- 23 -



were provided, thus avoiding any negative impact on project
implementation.
o     Lack of political commitment at the national and/or local level to transform
the Leipaja Water Company into an independently managed water and
wastewater utility. During project implementation the Liepaja Water
Company was reorganized into a shareholding company. There was no lack
of political will, however, a major effort was needed to find proper legal
avenues to accomplish this goal. With very few exceptions (as mentioned in
Section 4), the Latvian legal framework is rather loose in this respect, and
the owners, in this case Municipalities, are left with substantial freedom in
choosing the governance model.
o     Political and macro-economic factors could interfere with commitment to
adjust the tariffs in a timely manner. During implementation a great deal of
effort was required to make sure that tariffs were adjusted to the extent
needed to cover the operations of the Liepaja Water Company. However,
by the end of the project, the importance of timely tariff adjustments was
well understood by the Municipality of Liepaja. The tariff adjustment has
been formalized through introduction of a strategic planning process. A
public outreach campaign was also developed and conducted that provided
information to users about the water and wastewater utility, the need for
phased tariff adjustments and improvements in environmental quality
associated with these actions in Liepaja and the adjoining region.
o     Continued problems with collection of bills. This was a real problem that
threatened project sustainability. During implementation particular effort
was made to streamline the billing collection from multi-apartment blocks,
and eventually it paid off. In 1998 the bill collection rate reached 98%.
Although it worsened again in 1999 due to reorganization of housing
management companies, in 2000 again there has been an upward trend.
There are practically no problems collecting bills from single family houses.
O     There were no risks anticipated in introducing the technology, and this
proved correct during project implementation as Latvian personnel were
fully capable of operating and maintaining the equipment provided under
the project.
o     The major risk anticipated for the environmental management component
was the great number of actors involved in its implementation, and the
inability of local governments to coordinate their activities effectively.
However, these concerns did not materialize, as the Government of Latvia
and the consultants involved in implementation worked very closely, and
problems if any were reported to respective authorities: the parish
leadership, Liepaja Municipality, the Project Steering Committee
- 24 -



established by the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, or
the Bank.
At appraisal the project cost was estimated at USD 21.17 million, of which USD 4
million came from the World Bank loan. It is the project team's opinion that the
amount of financing was adequate, as all the original project components were
fully implemented with only minor modifications to reflect the actual situation. Due
to efficient procurement practices the PIU achieved savings and was able to
rehabilitate a further 1500 m of pipes and install additional energy efficient pumps
(see Section 4.2., Output by Components).
During appraisal the Bank maintained very close relationships with prospective
co-financiers from NEFCO; European Union (Phare) Program; the Governments
of Denmark, Finland and Sweden; and the WWF. The donor representatives were
invited to participate in the appraisal mission and to comment on project design
and implementation arrangements.
The Project Implementation Plan was adequate and provided an effective
framework for project implementation. In some cases, changes or flexibility were
required to address the changing realities in the field. These included reallocation
of funds between the sub-components, or modification of the scope of contracts.
All these changes were processed smoothly.
The performance indicators, especially the financial and economic ones, were too
complex and stringent for a water utility in general and for one in a transitional
economy country in particular. Therefore during supervision these indicators were
revised. (see Sections 4.3 and 4.4)
The lending instrument - currency pool loan with standard variable interest rate -
was a suitable one, though at the time of negotiations the Borrower had no other
choice as a part of the Bank's lending policy.
The project was fully consistent with the Bank safeguard policies valid at the time
of project appraisal. It was placed in environmental screening category "B" and did
not involve any involuntary resettlement or land acquisition.
Since this was the first project of the kind in Latvia, the lessons learned while
preparing and implementing the successful Environmental Management Project in
Poland were used, as in the recent past both Poland and Latvia had comparable
political, economic and administrative systems, and it was very likely that problems
in Latvia would be similar to those in Poland. Project implementation proved this
was a correct approach.
The Bank's appraisal team represented an adequate mix of the skills of its staff. It
included senior environmental specialists, environrmental engineers, economists,
- 25 -



procurement specialists, and lawyers. The Headquarters and Field office staff had
equally important duties and responsibilities in the appraisal team, which was
complemented by donor representatives. As seen from today's perspective, the
composition of the appraisal team assured continuity in project implementation:
following Board approval, task management was assumed by the deputy task
manager and the original task manager continued to actively serve as the project
advisor.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank's performance during supervision was highly satisfactory.
Supervision missions visited Latvia regularly at 6-month intervals. In between missions,
continuous implementation support to the Borrower was extended from the Bank's Riga
and Vilnius Offices. This helped to identify problems as soon as they emerged and to
propose corrective actions without additional delays. In order to maximize the efficiency
of supervision, the missions included representatives of both the Bank and co-financiers.
The project also adopted a unified reporting process for all cooperating parties, including
the Bank, which allowed for greater efficiency in the preparation, distribution and review
of the reports by Latvian and external parties.
PSR/Form 590 consistently rated project implementation as either Satisfactory or Highly
Satisfactory. These were realistic evaluations, and the outcome of the project, as viewed
by all cooperating parties, substantiates this view.
The Liepaja Water Company adhered to all loan covenants, except the financial covenant,
as it was set at an unrealistically high level. For more details see Sections 4.3 and 4.4.
However it should be noted that the Liepaja Water Company is consistently improving its
financial situation and there are good chances that it will shortly achieve the revised
financial target of 40% operating margin.
During supervision the Bank and the donors exercised flexibility in adjusting the
procurement packages and their sources of financing to serve the project goals in an
effective way. It should be noted that the project benefited from using cost savings for an
expansion of project activities.
There was continuity in supervising the project. The core of the supervision team
remained constant. While task managers changed twice, the new one was selected from
the project team. Two years before project completion, task management responsibility
was transferred to the field office staff that had been part of the team since inception of the
project. Both of the previous task managers remained involved in the implementation of
the Project on an advisory basis which provided additional continuity in the Bank team.
Supervision was substantially supported by the short-term Finnish consultants paid
- 26 -



through the Consultant Trust Fund; they were instrumental in advising the Liepaja Water
Company on financial and institutional development issues.
Since this project was supervised simultaneously with four other similar projects in the
three Baltic countries, the Bank, co-financiers and cooperating countries were able to
identify common issues and transfer experience between projects. They were also able to
provide assistance to each other, for example the PIU for the Liepaja project provided
advisory support to Bank supported projects in Daugvapils in Latvia and Klaipeda in
Lithiuania.
Implementation of Component A was enhanced by a special NEFCO and Bank facilitated
activity for benchmarking of utility performance using standardized indicators between a
large group of utilities in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and their twinning partners in
Finland, Norway and Sweden. A special activity funded by the Netherlands trained and
supported utilities in undertaking public outreach programs concerning utility
management, water conservation and environmental benefits.
Implementation of Component B included a series of regional meetings coordinated by the
World Wide Fund for Nature, which allowed parties developing and implementing coastal
zone and protected area management activities in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and
the Russian Federation to meet and compare their approaches and experience. A limited
number of meetings were also supported by EU (Phare) between personnel involved in the
preparation of coastal zone management plans in Latvia and Lithuania.
Supervision missions were very intensive and sometimes Bank staff asked the Borrower to
work on weekends, which eventually was not appreciated. This practice was discontinued
as soon as the Borrower expressed its dissatisfaction with this practice.
The project team always felt supported from Bank management, although the project did
not require any management intervention to resolve problems. Division Chiefs, and Sector
and Country Department Directors paid several visits to Liepaja to follow-up on the
progress of project implementation.
During Project implementation there were no deviations from Bank policies and
procedures.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. Both the project team and management were
flexible in responding to the Borrower's requests for modifications in project design, while
remaining strictly within the framework of the Bank's Operational Guidelines, Policies and
Procedures. Supervision was very closely coordinated with the co-financiers, which increased the
quality and impact of the project and allowed for sharing of knowledge gained from the project by
all parties. The willingness of Finland to fund a resident regional environmental engineer in the
Field Office in Riga and part-time specialist consultants to support implementation contributed to
the success of the project.
- 27 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's overall performance at all levels was satisfactory during the preparation phase of
the Project:
In 1993, the Govemment of newly independent Latvia had only very limited experience in
preparing large-scale investment and development projects and no experience with
intemationally funded projects. However, there was recognition of the problems the
country was facing, and a strong determination to resolve them in a sustainable way.
Latvian counterparts were open to new ideas, and constructive in discussing them with the
Bank and other co-financiers.
The Ministry of Environment and Regional Development appointed a highly qualified
professional to serve as the counterpart for the project preparation process, who was
supported by a team of local experts from Riga and the field area. The Latvian staff
actively participated in all meetings and field visits. They also raised issues that required
clarification conceming project planning and management, technical issues, procurement
and disbursement and financial management. Personnel from the regional office of the
Ministry in Liepaja also took an active role in these activities. The Ministry provided
regular information on project preparation to the Helsinki Commission to allow for
coordination of regional efforts.
The Municipality of Liepaja, acting through the mayor and city council, took an active role
in the project preparation process and assigned senior personnel from the Liepaja Water
Company to work with the Bank and the international consultants retained by EU (Phare)
to prepare the feasibility study for water and wastewater improvements. These parties also
worked closely with the Bank and consultants to review proposed changes in the utility's
management structure, prepare affordability studies and participate in extensive
discussions concerning proposed adjustments to tariffs for water and wastewater services.
Municipal representatives also participated in meetings concerning development of the
Environmental Management Component.
The Liepaja Water Company provided extensive support for project preparation and
worked closely with Bank, co-financiers and international and local consultants in the
development of detailed studies that were used to define the scope of activities included
under the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. This support included the
active participation of Company staff in a wide range of studies, extensive site visits and
field surveys, and a large number of meetings in Riga and in Liepaja.
Representatives of the Ministry, planning bodies and local governments and
nongovemmental organizations participated in preparation of the Environmental
Management Component. The approach to be used for development of the coastal zone
- 28 -



management plan was discussed with planning and environmental bodies at the national and
local level. Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes took an active role in discussions concerning the
development of management plans for the Lake Pape and Jurkalne protected areas and the
associated community based development activities. National and local parties participated
in identification of actions to be included to support tourism development.
7.5 Government inmplementation7 peri brmance:
The Borrower's overall performance at all levels continued to be highly satisfactory throughout
the implementation phase of the Project:
The Ministry of Environment and Regional Development closely monitored project
implementation on behalf of the Government of Latvia. While avoiding
micro-management, the Ministry staff, particularly the Project and Investment
Department, stayed on top of developments in Liepaja, and was extremely helpful in those
few cases when interventions from Government were needed. The Project and Investment
Department kept the Minister well advised of overall project progress, including
institutional issues, technical matters, and financial status. It also coordinated its work well
with the Liepaja Water Company and local organizations involved in the Environmental
Management Component.
The counterpart funding from the national budget was provided on a regular basis with
very few short-term delays that were resolved in a timely manner by the Ministry and did
not adversely impact project implementation.
The Project Steering Committee (PSC) was established in 1995 under the chairmanship of
the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, and consisted of key persons
representing the authorities having a stake and/or interest in the project. The PSC was
very helpful during the start-up phase of the project when different parties were learning
how to work together. Toward the end of the project the PSC became redundant, and
regular meetings were discontinued with the agreement of the Bank and co-financiers.
Liepaja Municipality, as an owner of the Liepaja Water Company, had a decisive role in
implementing the project. As one of the project's co-financiers, the Municipality provided
its contributions on time. Its major responsibility, timely tariff adjustments, was associated
with certain political sensitivities. By the end of the project, however, tariff adjustment
largely ceased to be a political issue, and became only an economic one. Throughout the
implementation phase, the Mayor and City Council provided support for the project and
were available for consultations on administrative, technical, financial and coordination
issues.
The Municipality realized the need to corporatize the Liepaja Water Company, and
actively participated in finding the legally correct manner in which to accomplish this
objective within the changing structure of Latvian law. When the Liepaja Water Company
was corporatized, NEFCO was invited to become a non-voting member of its Board of
Directors in order to provide external expertise to the management and operation of the
- 29 -



utility.
7.6 Implementing Agency
Component A - Water and Wastewater Improvement
As the primary implementing agency, the Liepaja Water Company, together with its PIU had
exceptional achievements during Project implementation that include:
The Liepaja Water Company took an active role in all phases of project implementation
and its commitment resulted in exceptionally effective use of resources, technical advisory
services and training provided under the project. The PIU was able to manage all key
functions in an exemplary manner and also provided informal advisory support to other
PIUs associated with related Bank projects.
The Liepaja Water Company, including its Board of Directors, management and staff all
actively participated in the twinning arrangement with the Norrk6ping Water Company
from Sweden with funding from Sida. This relationship provided the Company with
advisory support, formal training and informal access to Swedish counterparts for ideas
and advice on a range of issues. This cooperation also included activities for improvement
of wastewater treatment plants and water quality laboratories. Cooperation was mutually
beneficial in developing managerial and technical skills, and will continue even after the
Project is formally completed.
The Liepaja Water Company also took an active role in working on strategic planning and
financial management issues with the assistance of Finnish consultants. This process
resulted in preparation of a strategic plan that is being used to support further growth and
development of the Company.
The Liepaja Water Company provided high quality construction supervision, especially for
the installation of new pipes, which will reduce operation and maintenance costs over the
long term.
The PIU benefited initially from the procurement and disbursement training offered by the
Bank. A technical consultant to the PIU was hired to provide assistance in preparing the
bidding documents and evaluating the proposals, and to provide "hands-on" training to
PIU. These arrangements were very successful and resulted in significant cost savings.
The PIU maintained all the records of financial transactions in good order, which was
regularly reconfirmed by supervision missions. Annual audits were performed by auditors
acceptable to Bank in accordance with International Auditing Standards. The Project,
Special Account and the Entity audits were consistently rated as "unqualified."
Through the effective work of the Liepaja Water Company the project was completed
ahead of schedule and savings from well managed procurement were applied to expand
- 30 -



the scope of work undertaken by the project. The Company was also successful in
obtaining additional funding from the European Union and NEFCO to undertake water
supply improvements for iron removal as second phase activities that built upon the
project.
The PIU has recently been privatized and is operating as an independent service company.
It has been successful in obtaining contracts for the provision of advisory services
including for implementation of the Regional Solid Waste Project that is being funded by
the Bank.
Component B - Environmental Management
The Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, working through its regional
offices in the greater project area, actively supported preparation of the integrated coastal
zone management plan and regional tourism development plan. They worked closely with
consultants in introduction and application of activities that were based on decentralized
approaches to environmental management and development. A key issue was getting
parties involved in physical and spatial planning, economic development and tourism, and
environment to work together.
Preparation of the integrated coastal zone management plan for the entire Baltic Sea Coast
of Latvia and the regional eco-tourism management plan involved the participation of
approximately 20 parishes. After the initial start-up process, the parishes gained
experience in working with international consultants using participatory-based approaches
and the preparation of these studies proceeded in a generally smooth manner. Participants
remain interested in the activities and the parishes are implementing small scale activities
with their resources while the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development is
seeking external and national funding to undertake larger activities.
Preparation and implementation of the Management Plans for Lake Pape and Jurkalne, as
well as the associated community development activities, benefited from the active
participation of the local governments of the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes. The Heads of
Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes from the very beginning were the driving force behind this
element of the Environmental Management Component. Their strong motivation to
improve the living standard in their respective parishes led to involvement of a relatively
high number of local people in preparing and implementing the management plans for
Lake Pape and Jurkalne areas. This is the main reason why the Environmental
Management Component in Rucava and Jurkalne parishes turned into an ongoing
self-sustained community driven development project.
The Ministry and local authorities are working with the Liivi people, an ethnic minority
inhabiting a small section of the northern Baltic Sea Coast of Latvia, to determine their
views concerning design and implementation of the proposed Management Plan for
Ziemelkurzeme National Park. The proposed management plan would not involve
involuntary resettlement, acquisition of land and/or restrictions of the Liivi people to
- 31 -



natural resources.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory in all phases of project
preparation and implementation. The Government of Latvia and Latvian counterparts showed a
consistent commitment to achievement of the objectives of the Project and a willingness to adopt
new approaches to undertaking their work.
8. Lessons Learned
General: This section considers the most significant lessons learned from the project which have
general applicability to the identification, preparation and implementation of other development
projects.
Key Lessons Learned:
"Changing the Way We Think." The most important lesson is that cooperatively
planned and implemented projects that are based on mutual trust between the Bank
and Borrower can "change the way" the cooperating parties "think" about
environment and development issues. This change in thinking, as repeatedly
identified by all the participants, allowed the project to transfer new ideas and
approaches to planning and management as well as provide support for physical
investments.
Importance of Sustained Commitment. The project was a success because all the
involved parties-the Borrower at various levels, the Bank and
donors/co-financiers-remained equally committed to achieving the goals of the
project throughout all the stages of project preparation and implementation. The
fact that the project represented an action to address regional goals under the
Helsinki Convention; national priorities defined by the Latvian Environment
Strategy; and local needs as identified by the Municipality of Liepaja and the
cooperating Parish governments also fostered sustained cooperation among a
range of partners.
Shifting from a "Reactive" to a "Proactive" Approach. Through the use of
cooperative approaches to planning, especially in the development of the Strategic
Plan for the Liepaja Water Company and the Management Plans for Lake Pape and
Jurkalne, the project allowed the cooperating parties to shift from a "reactive" to a
"proactive" approach. This shift, which occurred to a more limited extent in the
case of the integrated coastal zone management plan and regional eco-tourism
development plan processes, empowered the cooperating parties and provided
them with an ability to define their priorities and encouraged them to assume
responsibility for taking future actions.
- 32 -



Benefits of Decentralization. Decentralization of environmental planning and
management, investment activities, and institutional strengthening can be effective
when the activities are an integral part of a national strategy and the cooperating
parties at all levels are prepared to work together and apply their comparative
advantage to fulfilling the objectives of the project. Adoption of a decentralized
approach resulted in far greater interest and commitment on the part of the
beneficiaries who viewed the project as reflecting their priorities and meeting their
local needs.
Linking Urban and Adjacent Coastal Areas. The project illustrates how activities
that focus on supporting infrastructure improvements in urban areas can effectively
support complementary actions in adjacent coastal areas. While the primary focus
of the project was on improvement of water and wastewater services in Liepaja, it
included carefully selected environmental management activities in adjacent coastal
areas. This approach allowed the investment in improved wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal to be linked with improved management of the coastal
zone, establishment of protected areas and development of eco-tourism.
Use of Participatory Approaches. The use of participatory approaches in the
development and initial implementation of activities supported by the
Environmental Management Component provided the cooperating parties with
direct experience in working with a broad range of stakeholders. This approach
was especially suitable for the preparation of an integrated coastal zone
management plan, community based management plans for protected areas, and a
regional eco-tourism development plan. The skills gained through participation in
these activities can be applied to a wide range of environmental management and
planning programs and to municipal and community development measures.
Use of Project to Address New International Environmental Agreements. The
project demonstrated the benefits of being able to adjust objectives to meet those
of new international environmental agreements approved during project
implementation. In the case of this project, the Government of Latvia became a
Contracting Party to the Ramsar Convention and proceeded to have Lake Pape
formally listed as a site of international significance to migratory birds. In addition,
the Government of Latvia used the project to further its compliance with the
environmental and water resources directives of the European Union as part of the
accession process that was initiated after the project was approved.
Bank's Performance:
Continuity in Team Leaders and Team Membership. Project success was aided by
continuity in task management: each Task Manager/Task Team Leader was a part
of the Project team before assuming these responsibilities and the previous Task
Managers/Task Team Leaders continued as active advisors to the project. In
addition, throughout preparation and implementation, the team remained
- 33 -



composed of an interdisciplinary range of specialists from both Headquarters and
the Riga and Vilnius Field Offices who worked together on a sustained basis.
Benefits from Use of Field Based Bank Staff. The strong involvement of field
based staff from the Bank Offices in Riga and Vilnius in project preparation and
implementation allowed the Borrower to have continuous implementation
support. This facilitated the early identification of issues and their rapid
resolution, It also provided an opportunity for continuous fine tuning of the
project as implementation proceeded. It proved to be very cost effective to have a
mix of more generalist field staff work with specialized headquarters staff in all
phases of the project.
Borrower Performance:
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
Benefit of a Steering Committee. The efficient work of a Steering Committee, in
which all the stakeholders were duly represented, allowed the project to be viewed
in a comprehensive manner and paved the way for subsequent smooth
implementation. The presence of the Committee allowed issues to be identified at
an early stage and provided a mechanism for their resolution. It also provided a
mechanism to link parties from Liepaja Municipality with parties from the adjacent
coastal areas and an opportunity to look at regional environmental issues.
Continuity in Key Counterpart Staff. The project benefited significantly from
having continuity in the key Latvian counterpart staff at the national and local
level. This allowed issues to be viewed in a longer-term context and skills to be
developed and applied throughout the life of the project. It also greatly facilitated
the ability of Latvia to develop a series of additional internationally supported
environmental investment projects at the national and local level.
Regional Environmental Offices. The project illustrates how regional
environmental offices can provide a bridge between a national ministry and local
governments in the planning and implementation of projects. The regional offices
served on local advisory committees concerned with the water and wastewater
improvements and coordinated local preparation of the integrated coastal zone
management plan and the regional eco-tourism development plan. These activities
were much more efficiently undertaken at the regional level and also allowed for a
range of informal activities between parties that would not have been possible had
the project been run from the capital city of Riga.
Municipality of Liepaja
An Active Local Government Makes a Difference. The active role played by the
mayor and city council of the Municipality of Liepaja was central to the success of
- 34 -



the project. This support was critical during the project preparation process when
major decisions had to be made concerning international cooperation, making
investments and borrowing money. During the implementation phase, the major
actions were decisions to change the legal structure of the Liepaja Water
Company, approve tariff adjustments and allocate resources for implementation of
the strategic plan.
Unanticipated Changes in Water Demand. As in the case with other Bank
supported water and wastewater projects in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania the
project was subject to unanticipated changes in water demand that adversely
affected the finances of the Liepaja Water Company. This demonstrated that even
with careful planning and analysis unanticipated outcomes can occur, and
reinforces the need to approach projects in a conservative manner and evaluate the
experience of others when making future municipal investments.
Public Information Programs. The project demonstrated the importance of public
information programs in supporting the complex process of improving a water and
wastewater utility. The outreach program provided municipal decision makers and
the public with an understanding of the reasons why the utility needed major
improvements, explained why tariffs required significant adjustments over time and
provided information on the types of environmental and health benefits associated
with these actions.
Component A - Water and Wastewater Improvement
Liepaja Water Company
Management Change is an Incremental Process. Transformation of an existing
water and wastewater utility developed in a centrally planned economy into an
efficiently managed self sustaining entity, and introduction of modem corporate
management ideas are much more challenging tasks than the physical
implementation of the project. In similar projects special emphasis should be
placed on institutional capacity building.
Strategic Plans are Highly Useful. Development of a strategic plan, in the later
stages of a project, can provide the utility with a framework for improvement of its
legal basis and management of operations, upgrading of physical facilities and
development of human resources. The Company found that the strategic planning
process was very important in assisting it to identify its priorities and formulate its
ideas for the future in a structured manner. The strategic plan has also made it
easier for the management of the Company to deal with the Municipal Government
and their Board of Directors.
Knowledge of Procurement and Disbursement Procedures is Critical. Good
knowledge of the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures by
- 35 -



counterpart staff was critical for success of the project. In Liepaja this was
achieved through timely training which was provided by Bank staff, and through
the work together with a consultant who was hired using the loan proceeds. It
should be noted that on the basis of experience with previous projects in the ECA
region, the development of these skills by counterparts was given a high priority
and procurement specialists played a central role in Bank project preparation and
implementation efforts.
Benefits of Close Supervision by Implementing Agency. Consultants, contractors
and suppliers should be closely supervised by PIU staff, and any deviations from
the terms of contracts and or specifications should not be allowed unless they are
beneficial to the project. Such an approach enabled the Liepaja Water Company to
implement the project with extremely high quality and substantial cost savings. It
also showed the staff the benefits of "building in" quality and how these efforts
would lower operation and maintenance costs in the future.
Effective Use of Twinning Agreements with Other Utilities. When private sector
participation in a water and wastewater utility is not possible, a well planned and
closely supervised "twinning arrangement" with another utility can be an effective
means for transferring experience and providing access to informal advisory
support. This arrangement should have a contract format that specifies key actions
and participants should include the Board of Directors, management and technical
staff. The project demonstrated that the most effective results of the twinning
agreement were technical aspects of cooperation because of similarities between
the two utilities. Success with management issues was more limited due to
significant differences in the political and economic aspects of the two countries.
Component B - Environmental Management
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
Environmental and Physical Planning. The project provided an opportunity for the
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development to have its environment and
physical planning staff develop new linkages between themselves and counterparts
at the regional and local level. The integrated coastal zone management plan
provided a demonstration of how environmental and physical planning approaches
could be combined in an operational manner. The project also introduced many
planners to the various ways in which participatory approaches could be used to
inform the planning process and to disseminate its results.
Rucava and Jurkcalne Parishes
Potential for Community Driven Development. The experience from activities in
the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes indicated the high potential for community
driven development activities in the coastal areas of Latvia and other countries in
- 36 -



the Baltic Sea Region. These communities felt that they became "empowered" by
the project to take a proactive role in the identification and management of
environment and development issues. This work extended itself into a variety of
small-scale actions that made the communities more cohesive and provided
opportunities for realization of practical improvements and expanded activities for
income generation.
Management Plans Provide a Mechanism for a Shared Vision. With the support of
Latvian authorities and the WWF, the preparation of the Management Plans for
Lake Pape and Jurkalne by the Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes demonstrated the
success of a local participatory based planning process. These plans allowed local
communities an opportunity to define the areas to be placed under conservation as
protected areas, and to identify complementary measures that should be taken at
the Parish level for local parties to benefit from conservation through eco-tourism,
local employment generation and self-help measures.
Nongovernmental Organizations Can Provide Catalytic Support. The experience
from the project shows how operational nongovernmental organizations can
provide catalytic support to local communities in environmental management. The
advisory support, planning measures and training activities undertaken by the
WWF of Denmark, Latvia and Sweden resulted in the activities undertaken in the
Rucava and Jurkalne Parishes becoming community based development activities
that are owned and implemented by local beneficaries.
Donor Community
Implementation of Conventions. The project demonstrated how the Ramsar
Convention, an international convention, and the Helsinki Convention, a regional
convention, could be implemented through incremental actions undertaken at the
national level. It also showed how projects could be designed to provide local
benefits, as well as meet the larger environmental objectives of the conventions. In
addition, placing the project in the context of implementation of the Helsinki
Convention and its Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Program gave it both regional and national significance, which helped mobilize
donor commitment and resources.
Active Donor Participation. Active involvement of donor representatives
throughout preparation and supervision of the project allowed them to remain
abreast of developments in Liepaja, and to react to changing situations in due
course. The close cooperation between the Government, the Bank and the donor
community allowed development of a project that would have a meaningful
positive impact on environment, without imposing an excessive loan burden on
Liepaja's inhabitants.
Well Targeted Grant Funds Can Accelerate Environmental Improvements. The use
- 37 -



of well targeted grant funds from the cooperating bilateral donors accelerated the
rate at which the physical improvements could be made by the Liepaja Water
Company and allowed for achievement of regional, national and local
environrmental benefits. This support was equally important in acceleration of the
development of counterpart institutions, especially in planning and management,
which has provided the basis for both management actions and new investments.
Use of Consultant Trust Funds to Support Supervision. The willingness of Finland
to allow the use of Consultant Trust Funds to support advisory services during
project implementation made a qualitative difference in the performance of the
Liepaja Water Company. This support facilitated the development of the strategic
plan which now guides the utility and assisted in strengthening its financial
planning and management skills.
Sustainability
A Shared Vision Supports Sustainability. The long-term sustainability of the
institutions, planning systems and investments supported by the project are
underpinned by a shared vision of environmental management objectives at the
national and local level. This vision is reinforced by the obligations of Latvia under
the Helsinki Convention and, in the future, its obligations as a member of the
European Union. This shared vision, when combined with the strong sense of
national and local ownership of the project, provides the basis for a sustainable
future.
Provisions for Supplemental Support. Sustainability can be strengthened if
co-financiers continue with small-scale follow-up activities with the same
beneficiary. In the case of the Liepaja Water Company, NEFCO became a
non-voting member of the Board of Directors and will continue to have an
association with the Company. The twinning arrangement with Norrkoping Water
Company will also be continued and will support specialized advisory assistance
and training for the Liepaja Water Company.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
The comments from the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development follow. The
comments from the Liepaja Water Company are provided in Annex 7, section III.
- 38 -



FILE No.973 30.0$.'00 13:52   ID:VIDES AIZSRDZ. MINISTR. FRX:+00 371 7820442            PAE  1
MINISTRY OF ENVlRUNN4LNTALPROTECi ION ANI) RLGI(ONAL DEVELOPMENT
OF TIIE REPUBLIC OF  lAIVIA
Mr Inesis Kilkis,
T'he Icitrnatioiali Bank for
Reconstruction and dievelopment
Liepdja Envirywttment 't-oject. Borrt)wer'.s Fvalsantiow
The Liepaja Environrnct pxoject was the first internationially funded cnvironmcntal investment
project in Latvia. It was undertaken by the World hank and other co-finanmicrs in respnse to the
request of lIatvian Government to help in meeting its iite rniational obligations in improving the
slute oif the Baltic Sea, and to provikk better watcr and wastowater services to inhahitttnts of
Ljep.sa city.
The main objectives of the project were a. follows:
I )To r educe discharges of partially treated and unireated wastewater into the Bultic Sea
2) 'IQo istore and enhance the surface and groundwuter quality in Liepaja, the noerticrn
portion or I ake Licp5ja, thL City Channel, and adjacent recreation btaches on the
Baltic Sea;
3) improvc q4ulily, reliability andl cost efficiency of water mipply and sanihation services
in Liep.ja;
4) improve thc operationial efficiency and rmanageinctt system in the Liep9ja Watcr and
wastewater enterprise;
5) prmitnoe environmnctally sustainuble development of the coastal zone, tourism  and
protected areas in and arouud Liepliju and Ventspils.
In order to achieve these objectives, thc following project conponents were idenitified:
I) Rehabilitation and expansion of ihe Liep6ju waler antd wateswater systenm including
clquipmcnt and works, along with cngIncering serv Ices;
2) Training to support inslitutional stretigtmieting to assist in esablishing and
autonomous and tintancially inidependent water undl wwstewater utility in Licpaja
3) Technical and financial support for the developmtent and implementation of an
environmental management plan for adjacent coastal Prcas ansi wctlands;
25 Peldu Str., LY- t494, rIga. La"tlat phone: 371 7026470, 371 7026590; fax 371 78z0442
- 39 -



'ILE No.973 30.08. '00 13:52   ID:VlDES A]ZSwDZ. MINISTR. F0yX:+0o 371 7820442             PAGE 2
4) Support for the developmcnt of a management plan rnr recreational and nature-based
tourism in Liepiju region
Improvcment of seWerDge networks in the former Sovict navy port, known as Katausta area,
was left oottside the svipe of' the project. This was due to lact that at the timne of project
preparation, the pxort had not been handed ovcr to Latvian authorities. Activitics in Katra)sta will
constittutc the second phase of the prolect.
To iinpiement the Project, the Government of Latvia signed several agreements with financiers
in respect to finance this project. The agreements with following instituuionts were signed:
  World 13ank - USD 4,0 million loan;
* Sida (Sweden) - USD 6.5 million grant:
*  Ministry of Environment of Pinland - USD 2.3 million grant;
*  Mlitistry of environment of Denmark - USD 0.5 million grant:
  EU Phare - USD t062 million grant;
  NEFCO - USD 2.0 million loan,
Water and waste watetr compongnt
The project tolal costs are 20.75 US $ million, the contribution of Ihe C;overnmenl n LaLtvia are
estimnated In the amount of 2 millions Lats (aprox. 3.4 US $ millimn), that was invested in the
period from ycar 1995-1999. It makes up t6 % from the total project corst (20,75 Us $ inillion).
This project supported thiC obectives of the G3overnmncrt of Latvia - to promote ihe
decentrulisation of responsibility for envryronmental services to municipal governments, as well
as to reduce the stute's role in the economy by strengtheninig luetI authorities and to restructure
and modernise thc water and wastewater sector.
Significant criteria in project realisation were backing of Liepaja municipality, as well as
larmation of local Project Tmplmentation Utnit, which was die first one for such projects in
Latvia.
Important precondition for unerring project consecution was opinion of IBRD specialists
tibout questions hounded with project lyout, components and moncy spend.
As a result of project impletentation the following main results are tchieved:
I. Direct sewerage emissions ure liquiduted in the Liepfija Cily Channel and Liepja LalkC by
installing collecting collectors.
2 Wastewater treatment plunt is renovartel to comply with   quality and environment
requircmcnts set by Buropean Union. Thc inaugurution cerenony of a new wastewater
treatment plant was held on 25th of MHy 1998.
3. Sewerage pressure pipcline is built with un aim to avoid pxttential possihilities of causing
accidents,
4. Sewerage wastewater pumping stations arc renovated,
5. Watcr supply network is imprtved and replaced by reducing driniking water leakage. Efficient
water supply regime is implemented.
6. The pumps for the first and the second raising pumping station were replticed.
7. The Niepaja Water was reorganlsod into autonomous company operating under commercial
law.
Implementing this project, a full conipliance with EU directivesl has been achieved in Liopeja
hut Karfsosta area. Successful project realisution causes scope to start a second phase of Liepuja
Enyviroaitunntal project in near future. The maini objectives of the sccond phase can be upgrading
- 40 -



FILE No.973 30.08.0'00 13:52   ID:VIIES PIZ3dDZ. rlINISIR. FAX:+0 -371 7820442          PAE  3
of water services system in Krtraosta region of Liepaja City and riaching the full compliance to
EU' requirements in wastawatcr discharges in this area.
The iblilowing treatmcnit parameters wCeI achieved in 2000;
Pollutant    effluent           treatment
Concentration      efficiency
BODi         6 mg/I-            97%
COI)        49mg/lI;            849
SN,L         II mgfl;           93%
Pi.*         I mg/I% ;2
Na,.        1O mg/i;           611%
The World Bank expericncec was instrumental not only for physical implementation of the project
itself. The Project olfered a possibility to transler of knowledge and experience to numerous
iocal experLs, In this context, Ministry acknowledges that the twining urrangemlient between the
Liepilja and Norrko3ping wuster companies was a succcss.
It is important to note, that the Licpfja water coinpany during Lhe project implentontation was
reorganised into a autonomous company which operates under commercial law,  The
Gyovernmnent of Latvia appreciates the World Bnnk el-hrts towards succecssful project
impleincntation and obtained experience that will be used in the future working with
internationally financied projects.
Environmental manaeement comnonent
The Environmeintal Management Component consisted of 3 major lenments;
> Development of the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan for the Western coast of
Latyja:
s Preparation of Managenuclt pluas for Lake Pape and JTirkalnc Areas; anid
>  Development tof the Eco-tourism development plan, including the ManKgement plan for the
would be Liivi national Park
The Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project (ICZM) very sticcessful in terms of
interest and activity fnrm rmunicipalities' side. This componcnt was financed by Phare, and
technically supported the World Bank.
The tnain objective was to produce ICZM plans thut represent a consensus on developtmcntal
priorities in the coastal zone. During the project impletnentation the municipalities for the first
time iheTnselves elaborated an integrated management plans.
Bcfore enbarking on ICZM, the municipalities in Latvia had liitle expetience of working
together. The ICZM pilot project 'Ifored" them to meet, to shure their problems und concerns
and to plun tugether, In doing so they discovcred mrany sharted problems and issues and also a
new stength in tackling these prioblem jointly.
The three-year exerm:ise to stahlish ICZM in Latvia has changed the outlook within the
municipalities quiLe significantly. Previously, draft plans in Latviu were relatively simple and
unsophisticated. During the establishment of ICZM, all of the participants learned a girat deal
abotit what was go ing on in their region and discovemrd ongoinig plans, projects 4nd idea4 that
they hud not known about. Ihe result is that dovelopcd plans arc most comprehensive and
holistic.
- 41 -



FILE No.973 30.08. '00 13:53   [D:VIDES PIZORDZ. MINISTR. Fo)X:+00 371 7820442             PPCE  4
There were several specialists from different sptheres involved in the elahlrution of plan -
geographers, archilects. biologisms, designers. planners, etc. The local populaition was invotlved in
this work as well.
ICZM  project is included in eU Demonstration Programme for Integrated Coastal Zone
Managemenlt.
Muna=rmvnt Plan anid Proarain for Lsd'e Pane aind Jurkalnie
Danish Government linanced this sub-component. lmplementation was led by staff oi the
Danish, Swedishi and LUtvian braitches or the World-wide Fund for nature (WWF) in close co-
operation with pairish governments and local population.
Main goial of the project was to demonstrate planning and promotion or sustainable devclnpment
in r ural tarea, to crsate public awvareness and improve capacity in local authorities.
All purticipants to the project startirig went throughi i very interesting and thallenging process. It
led to many significant outcoines tor the Project Areu;
Lu.ke Pyne Project Area was us follows:
  Procurement oil the reed-cutter and the prmvision olf the nuture restoration eqtliptneot
e  Construction works on the Sluice Gates
  Lake Pape Management Plan
*  Re-direction of the Liogupe and Paurupe Rivers
*  Ertetion of the Birdwatching Tower
* nfbrroration Board.s
* Visitor facilities at the heach
* Establishment of the Business Fond
* Language courses and other etucation initiatives
Jgrkalne Froiect Area wagg as follows:
*  Jurkalne Managetnent Plan
*  Repair of the Main Beach Access
*  Procturement of the Computer Fiur the School
*  tnfornation Boards and Parking Facilities
*  Visitor Facilities at the beach and tit the camp grounds
* Small Granis Scheme
*  Language courses and other education initiatives
Though th Project in its uriginal scope is over, it continues us a self-sustaining community
driven development process in the purishes. In Papep  a Consultative Board has been established
which negotiates all qucstions conni:ted with manugement of aren. It is developing a regulation
on rules for protection and management. The World-wide Fund for Latvia in co-operation with
of Dutch government hls started Big Hlerbivore Project in order to restorc and manintain
grasslands around the lake. Rucava parish is taking care on tourism facilitics in the area. It is
-42 -



FLL No.973 30.()S. oo 13: 3   ID;VlDES P1ZS%FDZ. MINISTR.  FiX:-00 371 7820442              PAG   5
foreseen to establish Pape Nature Park and nominale this tetritory for inclusioni in the List of
Internationally Important Wetlands.
Jurkaloe parish is successfully developing country tourism  and also taking care of tourism
facilities.
To concitide, the Ministry of tDnvironrneniul protection and regional development maintains that
the objectives set for the project in the beginning of prrject realisation in year 1995. have becn
achieved. However, even more importunt - the Project set a framework for itiplementatlion of
similar projects in the lutiture, and had a significant capacity building impact on Municipality of
Liep5ja, the Liepije water company, and numerous parishes on the western coast of Latvia The
Project lmplimenlatinor Unit of the Lieplja Watcr Company will provide its services to another
tke World Bank supported project in Liepajit area - the Regional S dlid Waste Management
Project In Rtocava und JMrkalne parish, the prtoect launched the coinmunity driven tlevelopmetnt
proces,. which will allow to improve the living standard rf l cai inhNiLants und ti) preserve
nature.
We look forward to successfal co-operation with the World Bank in the luutre.
Zigfitld  Brupers
t
Deputy Stale Secretary
Director of Investment Department
- 43 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO)
TELEFAX
Total number of pages: 1
DATE:        27 September 2000
TO:          Mr. Inesis Kiskis, The World Bank Vilnius Office
FAX:         +370 2 226829
FROM:NEFCO
Nordic Environment Finance Corporation, Helsinki, Finland
NAME:              Solveig Nordstr6m/Anne Irene Kvernmo Hissa
E-MAIL:    solveig.nordstrom@nefco.fi/anne.kvermmo.hissa@nefco.fi
TELEFAX:  Helsinki (+358 9) 630 976
If there are any problems please call Helsinki (+358 9) 18 00 341, 18001 or telex no 124704
nib fi
Re: LATVIA: LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Dear Mr. Kiskis,
With reference to your e-mail of 21 st August 2000, NEFCO would like to provide you with
the following comments and observations regarding the Liepaja Environment Project.
We are very satisfied with the way in which the project has been implemented and find it to
have been very efficient.
The co-operation between financing institutions and in particular with the World Bank has
been very satisfying.
As the first environmental hot spot project in the Baltic countries, this has functioned as a
model for other projects to follow.
For NEFCO it has been a very useful experience also to co-operate with the World Bank and
the Liepaja Water Company on how to turn their operation into a market related viable
economy. It must, however, be stated that the Water Company is still struggeling with their
financial situation, and the management structure and supervisory board will still need
improvement. The supervisory board does not sufficiently support the strategic thinking and
development of the company.
-44 -



It has also been noted that implementatiaon of a modem databased accounting system was a
slow and difficult process meeting opposition in the company and that more work needs to be
done in training people in using this system, not only in accounting but also as a management
tool.
Currently NEFCO is involved in implementing, on behalf of the European Union, the iron
removal plant which was proposed by the World Bank to the EU Phare LSIF programme.
The implementation of this part of the project has been even smoother than the first part, due
to the excellent training and support provided to the Project Implementing Unit during the
co-financed project.
The biggest challenge for the Liepaja Water Company presently will be to safeguard
generation of sufficient income for the operation and the maintenance, also of the iron
removal plant.
Yours sincerely,
Harro Pitkanen
Managing Director
(c) Other- partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from Worldwide Fund for Nature
Mr. Inesis Kiskis
World Bank Regional Office, Vilnius, Lithuania
September 4th, 2000
Re.: The Liepaja Environment Project
During 1995-1998, WWF Denmark through the WWF Latvia Project Office undertook the
management and implementation of the Jurkalne and Lake Pape Demonstration Activities under
the umbrella of the Liepaja Environment Project. The World Bank has requested WWF to provide
its input for a review of the Liepaja Environment Project. Please find this in the following:
Project Design: the project design was quite good, imaginative and with a large potential for
significant input to the local planning and management efforts. Particularly, the integrated aspect
of the project provided a number of opportunities for the Borrower and the local stakeholders.
However, a number of preconditions for making full use of these opportunities didn't appear to be
in place, neither between the 2 project components, as well as the activities within the
-45 -



ICZM-component.
Roughly, this can be shortened down to a conclusion, that the gap between the local prioritisation
of immediate investments on one hand and the long-term strategy and co-ordination focus implied
in the project design on the other hand was simply too big. In this respect, the buy-in from the
Borrowers didn't meet the opportunities.
At the same time, the set-up of the local demonstration activities in Jurkalne and Pape with 2
phases appeared to be very useful. Of particular use was the combination of the planning process
and small scale activities to visualise the contents of the planning exercise. This provided local
stakeholders with tangible examples of a planning exercise, which otherwise could become too
academic and fluffy in comparison with the local needs.
In terms of demonstration aspects, the inclusion of Jurkalne in the project didn't appear logic,
neither at a first glance, nor during the project. In this case, and with reference to the very small
project area, what could be achieved through local solutions and what needed to be solved at the
level of national decision-making and policies were simply too big to overcome.
In the case of the Lake Pape project, the geographic delimitation probably could have been more
ideal by including the areas between Lake Pape and Lake Liepaja, particularly the big fields
around Nica which actually belonged to the drainage area of Lake Pape. This would have allowed
a more holistic view in the field of biodiversity conservation.
Implementation Process: the integrated aspects of the project didn't really work out that well.
Further, this was to some extent hampered by a parallel initiation of other projects on coastal
issues, e.g. the Phare project on ICZM. Co-ordination of all these efforts could have been much
better. Further, co-ordination and synergy between the 2 local demonstration activities and the
larger exercises on ICZM for the entire Latvian West Coast and Eco-tourism planning never really
gained momentum, a.o. due to a different timing of their commencement.
The implementation of the local demonstration activities functioned quite well, to the satisfaction
of most participants. Only small delays were noted and most objectives were met. The project also
managed to attract supplementary funding for additional investments.
Co-operation with Bank and the Borrower: with the Bank the co-operation throughout the
project has been highly satisfactory. With the Borrower, the co-operation was a bit mixed. At the
forrnal level, everything was satisfactory, however, a sincere interest from the national or regional
authorities to the planning and management results and experiences was never really felt from our
side.
Outcome: Taking into account the starting conditions at local level, with highly inexperienced
partners having very little capacity, the results were quite good. Apparently, the sustainability of
the results seem to be quite satisfactory, although not perfect. Obviously, the gap between the
rather short-term priority setting of local authorities and the long-termn sustainable development
- 46 -



focus of ICZM planning do lead to conflicts and disappointments on both sides.
The project has un-doubtfully been of very big value to the local authorities. By the beginning of
the project, both the authorities of Pape and Jurkalne appeared pessimistic and resigning, feeling
forgotten by the central authorities. By the end of the project, they showed initiative, developed
new ideas and had a much greater belief in the future, basing their newly gained optimism on a
change perception of their local surroundings: the environment had become an asset!
After the project, WWF has continued its the Lake Pape involvement, focusing on among other
the establishment of a Nature Park and release of Konik Horses (a semi-wild race of Horses
previously roaming the wilderness of these latitudes).
Sincerely
Henrik Dissing
Head of WWF Denmark's Eastern Europe Program
10. Additional Information
N/A
-47 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicator/Matrix                    Projeed In last PSR                    ActulULatest Estimate
N/A'                                  N/A-                                    N/A-
* As the logframe matrix was not used for this project, dynamics of all monitored indicators are shown in
the Output table
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimnate
Component 1 - Water and Wastewater
Improvement
1. Increased amount of treated wastewater in In 1995 only 83% of all wastewater volume   In 1999, 99% of the all wastewater volume
Liepaja measured in m3 treated         were treated mechanically in the old WWTP  was treated mechanically and biologically in
wastewater/day                                                                the rehabilitated WWTP
2. Reduced pollution level at the treatment   For biological treatment: Ptot 1.5 mg/Il; Ntot  Ptot 0.8 mg/I; Ntot 13 mg/I; BOD7 8mg/l;
plant and selected locations measured in    12 mg/I; BOD7 10 mg/I; TSS 35 mg/  TSS 15 mg/l
nitrogen, phosphorus, BOD and suspended
solids content in the water
3. Improved bill collection ratio (base 76% in                                95%
1994
4. Operating margin of 40%             22%                                    22%
Component 2 - Environmental Management
1. Preparation and implementation of   Completed                              Completed; recommendations being used in
integrated coastal zone management plan for                                   decision making
Baltic Sea Coast of Latvia
2. Preparation and implementation of   Completed                              Completed - Being implemented in a phased
management plans for Lake Pape and                                            manner by parish governments; funding
Jurkalne                                                                      being sought for addifional actions
3. Eco-tourism Development Plan        Completed                              Completed - Being implemented in a phased
manner by national, county and parish
govemments.
End of project
- 48 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Proiect Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Component A. Water and Wastewater Improvement        14.95          20.55        141.72
Component B. Environmental Management                 1.50           1.83           110
Total Baseline Cost                                  16.45          22.38
Physical Contingencies                               1.49           0.00
Price Contingencies                                  3.23           0.00
Total Project Costs             21.17          22.38
Total Financing Required             21.17           22.38
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                    [      Cost
Expenditure Category      tCB          NCB          OtherN                  Tota
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         11.66        11.66
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     3.66          0.00         0.00          0.00        3.66
(3.66)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (3.66)
3. Services                  0.00          0.17         0.17          2.34        2.68
(0.00)       (0.17)       (0.17)        (0.00)       (0.34)
4. Twinning Arrangement      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.61        0.61
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          2.56        2.56
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      3.66         0.17          0.17         17.17       21.17
(3.66)       (0.17)       (0.17)        (0.00)       (4.00)
- 49 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Citegory           1C8             NCB           other           N.B.F.       Total Cost
NCB       ~Other       _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                          0.00             0.10           0.00            11.50          11.60
(0.00)          (0. 10)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0. 10)
2. Goods                           2.37            0.00           0.67            2.67           5.71
(2.37)          (0.00)         (0.67)          (0.00)         (3.04)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00           0.86            2.67           3.53
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.86)          (0.00)         (0.86)
4. Twinning Arrangement            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.64           0.64
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00           0.00            0.90           0.90
(0 . 00)        (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          2.37             0.10            1.53           18.38          22.38
(2.37)          (0.10)         (1.53)          (0.00)         (4.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2, Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equi alent)
:                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actua/Latest Estimate      ierentg:   f A     a l
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.       CoF.    Bank   Govt.  Ca.
Water and Wastewater       3.80       5.25      10.62       3.80       5.41      11.34    100.0  103.0  106.8
Improvement
Environmental              0.20       0.00       1.30       0.20       0.20       1.43     100.0   0.0    110.0
Management
0.0    0.0    0.0
- 50 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project appraisal did not contain an economic cost-benefit analysis, however, it contained a
section on internal rate of return (IRR). SAR underlined that the Project is not consequently
driven by a financial rate of return, though cash flow generation should have been sufficient
enough to generate a FRR that exceeds the average weighted cost of Capital to Liepaja Water
company. Details are explained in Sections 4.3 and 4.4.
Net present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                    Financial Analysis
Appraisal Estmates    Later Estimates    Appraisal Estimates    Later Estimates
Benefits                 N/A                                   N/A
Costs                    N/A                                   N/A
Net benefits (LVL)       N/A              7,247,403            N/A              -233,912
IRR                      N/A               6.50%              13.7%              -0.20%
Details are provided in Annex 7, Table 1.
- 51 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Yea      Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
4   Environmental Specialist
2   Environmental Engineer
2   Environmental Economist
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Legal Advisor
I   Environmental Specialist
I   (Finland/MOE)
Environmental Engineer
I   (Sweden/Sida)
Environmental Economist
1   (Sweden/Sida)
Environmental Finance
Specialist (NEFCO)
Appraisal/Negotiation
4   Environmental Specialist
2   Environmental Engineer
1   Environmental Economist
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Environmental Specialist
(Finland/MOE)
I   Environmental Engineer
(Sweden/Sida)
I   Environmental Economist
(Sweden/Sida)
I   Environmental Finance
Specialist (NEFCO)
Supervision
06/07/95-06/08/95             2   Environmental Economists              S                 S
I  Environmental Enginer
I  Environmental Specialist
I  Procurement Specialist
02/13/96-02/16/96              2  Environmental Economists              S                  S
1  Environmental Engineer
I  Financial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialist
I  Procurement Analyst
06/18/96-06/20/96              1  Environmental Economist               S                  S
I  Environmental Engineer
I  Financial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialist
- 52 -



01/26/97-01/28/97              1  Environmental Engineer               HS                 HS
I  Finacial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialist
I  Environemntal Specialist
I  Procurement Analyst
I  Operations Analyst
09/24/97-09/26/97              1  Environmental Engineers              HS                 HS
I  Environmental Specialist
I  Financial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialist
04/25/98-04/27/98              1  Environmental Economist               S                 S
2   Environmental Engineers
I  Environmental Specialist
I  Financial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialist
I  Operations Assistant
11/05/98-11/07/98              1  Environmental Specialist              S                 S
2  Environmental Engineers
I  Financial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialsit
I  Operations Analyst
I  Research Assistant
06/15/99-06/17/99              I  Environmental Specialist              S                  S
I  Financial Specialist
I  Organization and Management
Specialist
I  Environmental Engineer
I  Operations Assistant
ICR
03/06/00-03/10/00             I   Environmental Specialist              S                  S
I   Senior Technical Adviser
I   Environmetnal Economist
I   Environmental Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (,000)
Identification/Preparation               55.3                        168.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                    50.6                         82.9
Supervision                             164.3                        321.4
ICR                                       10.5                       34.51
Total                                    180.4                      607.01
Number of the staff weeks and the costs represent the total of the Bank and Trust Fund supported work.
- 53 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
 Physical                                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Financial                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
 Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                             * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
 Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
 Gender                            O H OSUOM ON A * NA
 Other (Please specify)            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Implementation of the provisions of the
Helsinki Convention and Baltic Sea Joint
Comprehensive Action Program by the Government
of Latvia
 Private sector development               O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
F Public sector management                 O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
13 Other (Please specify)                  OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
- 54 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
* Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
* Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 55 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoire of the ICR mission
2. Details for calculation of the ERR and FRR
3. Comments by Implementing Agency - full text
4. Map of the Project Area
LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION (MARCH 6-10, 2000)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
INTRODUCTION
I .    A World Bank mission visited Latvia on March 6-10, 2000, to conduct an implementation
completion mission of the Liepaja Environment Project (LV-PA-8533). The mission comprised
of Mr. I. Kiskis, Environmental Specialist, Mission Leader, Mr. Stephen Lintner, Sr. Technical
Adviser, Mr. K. Johansson, Sanitary Engineer, and Mr. Paavo Eliste, Environmental Economist.
The mission had discussions in Riga with the Mr. Vents Balodis, Minister of Environment and
Regional Protection, and his staff (Z. Bruvers, I. Saleniece ). In Liepaja mission net with the
Mayor Mr. Uldis Sesks, the Board of Directors of Liepaja Water, Regional Environmental
Protection Department, and staff of LW (Mr. Dejus, and staff of the Project Implementation
Unit). Also, visits were paid to Rucava and Jurkalne parishes where Mr. J. Veits and Mr. M.
Dadzis, and the Heads of parishes were met.
2.    At the meetings with Minister Balodis and Mayor Sesks it was proposed to conduct an
in-depth press conference, including a study tour for the journalists in May, 2000 to mark
completion of the project. Both Mr. Balodis and Mr. Sesks supported the idea very much.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS
3.    General. Physical implementation of project has been highly satisfactory: project
accomplished more than it was originally planned; all the loan proceeds have been disbursed and
Project is closing on time.
4.    As a result of the project:
*     Wastewater treatment plant largely works up to expectations, and has had a positive
impact on reducing pollution levels in the adjacent beaches: at the time of mission Liepaja was
granted a "Blue Flag", a certificate of clean beaches;
*     Amount of unaccounted water has come down from 34% to 17%;
Per capita water consumption in Liepaja has reduced from 171 I/d to 130 l/d, and
continues to decline;
- 56 -



Energy consumption due to project financed measures has decreased for more than 2
million kWh/a;
*     The staff of the Liepaja Water Company (LW) has become a champion of the project
implementation. The company has a modem management structure, with NEFCO having an obse
rver status in the Board of Directors;
Liepaja Water (LW) is making good progress towards compliance with financial
covenants of the Project Agreement, although it still has not been able to meet them fully. For
1999, the working ratio achieved 21%, (only 7% in 1998), while the target remains at the 40%
mark;
*     Tariff decisions are made by municipality on a timely basis;
*     The environmental management component which was originally implemented in Rucava
and Jurkalne parishes has triggered numerous self-sustaining community development projects.
Many neighboring parishes are being involved into activities launched in Rucava and Jurkalne;
5.    More detailed update on the status of various component is presented below;
Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC)
6.    The detailed notes on the various sub-components are elaborated below:
Water Supply and Distribution
Completion of the new Otanki transmission main. A total of 3600m of new piping were
constructed, and 8000 m were cleaned and tested. The completed component eliminated leakages
of approximately 800,000 m3/a, which corresponds to 17% of the year 1999 sales.
Service Extension. Reconstruction of Ganibu and Cenkones Street Transmission mains.
This was a new component to reconstruct the worst part of the distribution network. Leakages
totaling to 240.000 m3/a were eliminated by replacing 3.000 meters of pipeline.
Water Conservation. The component included a number of equipment including network
software, repair clamps, pressure transducers, surveying equipment, flow measurement, telemetry
etc., which were procured and taken into use successfully. Furthermore, some 1500 water meters
were procured and installed. As a result of these physical actions and increased tariff, the water
demand has reduced from 171 I/p/d to 130 lIp/d in the Liepaja service area.
Laboratory Equipment. The laboratory facilities and premises were upgraded, and on July
1998, the LW Water Laboratory was accredited to carry out EU standard microbiological, water,
sewage, sludge and physical/chemical soil analyses.
Chlorination Equipment. The funds were reallocated as the component was combined to
iron removal plants to be grant financed by EU Phare.
Water Pumps. A new component developed after realizing the significant energy saving
potential in the wom out and improperly designed pumping systems. With an investment of US$
0.51 million, power consumption was reduced by 1.6 million kWhla corresponding to a saving of
- 57 -



US$ 90,000/a.
SEWERAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT
Completion of the Wastewater Treatment Plant. The component was successfully
completed in 1998 with a saving of US$ 0.6 million out of the US$ 8.1 million budget. The plant
capacity was increased from 22,000 m3/d to 55,000 m3/d and process upgraded. The component
also included two new interceptors, which captured direct sewage discharges of 4,800 m3/d. The
plant has achieved good results in reducing phosphorus and biological oxygen demand, and the
nitrogen removal is very close to the recommended level. The treatment indicators are as follows:
Table 1. Treatment Levels at the Liepaja Wastewater Treatment Plant
Indicator      HELCOM    Design target,    Pre-investment       Post-investment
mg/I        Sweco            treatment level    treatment level, 1999
mg/l             1996, mg/l        average
_____________   ______________                  ~ ~~mg/I
Ptot           1.5          1.0              3.85               0.8
Ntot, recomm.   12          7.0              19                 13
BOD7           15           10               12.1               8
Susp. solids   35                            10.5               15
COD                                          46.5               49
The actual pollution loads to the Baltic Sea have reduced even more significantly.
Table 2. Discharges of pollutants from the Liepaja Wastewater Treatment Plant into the Baltic
Sea
Indicator                    Effluent load 1996            Effluent load 1999
t/a                           t/a
Ptot                         50                            9
Ntot                         279                           136
BOD7                         425                           84
Susp. solids                 266                           160
COD                          978                           518
However, there are a few issues which need continued attention before the wastewater
treatment would achieve fully satisfactory operational level:
i.    The plant experiences periodic overloading during the sugarbeet processing season, and
this negatively affects the nitrogen removal efficiency. LW has to make sure that the sugar factory
- 58 -



improves its pre-treatment facilities before the next season starts October 2000.
ii.    LW has to continue the dialogue with the consultant and supplier to resolve the problem
related to the blower installation supplying air to the biologic treatment process. The blower
installation is not well engineered and lacks capacity with the consequence that the blowers are
repeatedly breaking down.
The other two longer term problems also have to be addressed:
i.    The beach continues to erode in front of the WWTP posing future risks to the structures
of the plant itself. LW has installed simple beach reinforcement in the form of used tires, but these
do not appear effective enough. Heavier protection will be needed, and the mission recommends
to use clean building demolition rubble for the beach reinforcement.
ii.    Sludge treatment needs further upgrading from the present level of disposal to drying
beds. Proper dewatering and disposal together with municipal solid waste in energy cells has been
planned to be included in the Liepaja Region Solid Waste Management Project about to begin in
year 2000.
Main Pumping Station. Terminal Transmission Main and Rehabilitation of Small STPs.
Reallocation of financing allowed substantial savings in the procurement of transmission main
pipes (international competition instead of restricted to Finland). These savings together with an
additional US$300,000 bilateral grant from Finland made it possible to reconstruct the whole
transmission main instead of the planned partial one. The main pumping station was successfully
rehabilitated, and the funds allowed to rehabilitate 15 small pumping stations as well. The mission
visited the stations and observed that the works carried out were focused cost-efficiently on the
essential equipment only. The observed power savings are of the magnitude of 550,000 kWh/a.
The control and telemetry system has also allowed to dispense with the permanent operators from
a number of the stations, although it is obvious that LW could still continue reducing manning at
one or two stations.
Sewer Reconstruction/Rehabilitation. Again, careful cost husbandry by LW allowed to
increase the length of rehabilitated sewers from the planned 2000m to 3560m. 3300 meters of
sewers were fully reconstructed and the planned City Channel syphon installed as well as sewer
cleaning vehicle procured.
Leakage (Infiltration) Detection Program. A sewer TV inspection vehicle has been
procured and is in use to check new works and to select lines for rehabilitation. It is also leased to
other municipalities.
7.    Disbursement. As a result of excellent procurement management, practically all the
World Bank loan has been disbursed, with only USD 161.21 remaining on the accounts.
Statements of expenditure were reviewed during the mission. All documentation was available
and well organized.
8.    Financial Performance. Financial performance of the company has improved significantly
- 59 -



since the beginning of the project. The operating margin, a major indicator for capital cost
recovery, has improved significantly over the life of the project, reaching 22 percent in 1999, as
compared to negative values in 1995-1997, and only 7% in 1998. Similar trends are present to
other financial indicators: both working ratio and operating ratio improved significantly during
the project (37 and 26 percent respectively), which indicates improving financial management of
the company. However, the 40% target, in spite of the rapid tariff escalation and aggressive cost
cutting measures, has not been reached yet.
Table 3: Financial performance of LW in 1995-1999
Profit and Loss Items       Unit      1995      1996    1997      1998      1999
Net revenues                 MLVL         0.7      1.7       1.7      2.1       2.1
- O&M costs, taxes          MLVL          1.1      1.7      1.8       1.9       1.6
Operating margin             MLVL         -0.4       0      -0.1      0.2       0.5
- Depreciation              MLVL          0.1      0.2      0.4       0.7       0.9
Other costs/income          MLVL            0     -0.1        0      -0.2       0.5
Net profit                   MLVL         -0.5    -0.3      -0.5     -0.3         0
- Subtraction of deferred   MLVL           0        0       0.2       0.3       0.4
income
Corrected net profit         MLVL         -0.5    -0.3      -0.7     -0.6      -0.4
Operating margin               %          -48       -2       -4         7        22
Working ratio                  %          148      102       104       93        78
Operating ratio                %          165      117       134      130       122
Number of staff             number        313      321      293       276       262
Sale volume/Employee          m3       22,045   19,003   20,478   22,464   21,756
O&M Costs/m3 of water sold    LVL        0.16     0.28      0.30     0.31      0.28
Provisions for bad debts deducted
9.    Tariffs. Tariff escalation in Liepaja since 1994 has been relatively rapid, but not excessive
when remembering that the starting levels were low. In the beginning of 1994 domestic customers
were charged 7 santimes/m3 (0.12 USD) on a combined basis. Most recently, the City Council
increased service tariffs in July, 1999 setting combined tariffs to 37 santimes/m3 (0.63 USD) for
domestic users and 46 santimes/m3 (0.78 USD) for institutional users, an increase of 28 and 15
percent respectively. The City Council is considering to increase service tariffs again in July 2000.
The proposed tariff increase is 8.1 percent for domestic users and 2.2 percent for institutional/
commercial users. More aggressive tariff adjustment, however, may be needed as the amount of
water billed is still decreasing.
10.   Strategic Planning. Strategic planning procedure is largely in place. Based on the current
version of the Plan, the Municipality has decided to allocate LVL 200,000 in years 2001-2004
annually for investment in the network extension and maintenance.
- 60 -



11.   Loan Covenants. So far, LW has not complied with the financial covenant as defined in
the project Agreement, Section 4.02 "Total revenues to be not less than total operating expenses
plus the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation plus
provisions for maintenance and bad and doubtful debts plus proper asset depreciation reflecting
replacement cost". After asset revaluation, the problem of insufficient depreciation was solved,
but the revenue target in 1999 was not achieved, as yet: the total requirement (O&M plus
depreciation) was 2.3 million LVL but the actual revenues (without deferred income) were only
2.1 million LVL.
12.   Financial Management. Audit for year ending December 1999, is being performed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers and will be submitted to Bank in mid-April 2000.
13.   Billing Collection. Compared to 1998, the bill collection dipped 16 percent in 1999. The
increase in trade debtors is largely a result of the recent restructuring of the housing enterprise
system, which reduced their number to four from the previous 11 enterprises and should be
viewed as a temporary problem: monthly collection rate was on 95 percent level in December
1999 up from 70 percent during the months of July to August.
14.   Twinning. Twinning arrangement with the Norrk6ping was completed in June 1999, and
is perceived as a very successful undertaking, especially in terms of improving the technical skills
of the LW staff. It should be noted that the Board of Directors underwent a Board training course
which, inter alia, included a study tour to Sweden.
15.   Though there has not been drafted any formal follow-up plan for cooperation beyond the
twinning agreement, the twinning partners intend to continue communication after the end of the
official twinning period, focusing on follow-up training in wastewater treatment and laboratory
processes.
16.   Corporatization and Governance. NEFCO has become a non-voting member of the
Board of Directors. Mission sees this as a very positive development, as it would strengthen the
Board of Directors at the initial stage of its functioning, and would ensure sustainability and
continuity of the Project after the World Bank funds are fully disbursed.
17.   Public Awareness. Liepaja water continues very active public awareness campaign,
which beyond doubts has positive impact on company's image in the town.
Environmental Manag-ement Component (EMC)
18.   Project Implementation. Implementation of the EMC has been highly satisfactory. All
the proposed activities have been successfully completed. It should be noted that this component
over the years of implementation has evolved into community development project, both in
Rucava and Jurkalne parishes.
In Rucava, the Bank supported purchase of the reed harvester resulted in creation of the
-61 -



municipal company Spilas. Reed demand on the market exceeds the supply. Number of employees
in the company is constantly growing and has reached 13, thus contributing to improvement of
living standard in the rural area. The current plans include diversification from just reed harvesting
to providing of full range of services including the construction of traditional houses and topping
them with reed roofs.
The management plans of the Lake Pape (Rucava parish) and Jurkalne areas were prepared with
assistance of WWF-Denmark in cooperation with WWF-Latvia. In both parishes it was admitted
that originally the highest expectations were related to physical components of the proposed
projects. Today the management of Rucava and Jurkalne were happy to realize that the planning
procedures which were introduced during preparation of the ICZM plan, and the Eco-tourism
management plans have a long term value and will be used for many years to come. Number of
tourists visiting Liepaja and Ventspils regions is constantly growing.
Bank will investigate possibilities whether the recommendations on restoring the fish stocks in
lake Pape, as contained in the ICZM plan, could be implemented as a part of the GEF supported
Baltic Sea Regional Project.
In Rucava an ambitious plan for introducing of wild cows and horses in the vicinity of Lake Pape
has started, and so far has been successful. Animals are reproducing.
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
19.   During the mission the following agreements were reached and actions to be taken were
identified:
*     Municipality of Liepaja would continue to support the LW in medium term by allocating
LVL 200,000 annually for investment in network extension and rehabilitation;
The beach next to the wastewater treatment plant in order to slow down the coastal
erosion will be strengthened;
*     Municipality will continue timely tariff adjustments, and the next one is scheduled for July
1, 2000;
*     Bank will investigate whether part of recommendations of the ICZM could be
implemented through the GEF supported Baltic Sea Regional Project;
A press conference, with participation of representatives from Ministry of Environment
and Regional Development, Liepaja Municipality, Rucava and Jurkalne parishes and the World
Bank preliminary has been scheduled for May 2000.
- 62 -



II. Calculations of ERR and FRR
196   19J6   197    1!       M9    MD   200)1   201    2603   2OD4            2006   2OY7   D3) 8 20    3210
iteCft3IG0        1,769=  173=   4 453191 424X7    176639 1,738   274310  0     0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0
NVkdUIgC0              0 -196624  -2764)  199874  -143.M 5 489 3 76  -10.535    0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0
O&MCCi&ihP1j0    IJ,182 1578430 1825,471 1901.160 1,Q6154 16012861.577591 1542616 1.543257 1545XW 1,75314 152D8  1521,639 1522838 1523638 152438
-0&MCbsi     tPk  1.66182 12390  1359.152 1,423D32  1.457.185 1.457,185 1,457,185 1.457.185 1.457.185 1.457.185 1.457.185 1.457.185 1,457.185 1457.185 1.457.185 1.457,185
hD(Q8MC(95             0  324,0   466319 47MJ   168969  144,12 147   85,431  86072  8&018  63515  63,495  64455  65,453  66453  67,453
RPwihPnrt          71365 1.33.761 1.79317 206314 2174945 2.54662264964 2766147 2841226 2841232 2841232 2841,232 2432 2841232 2541232 2841232
-Re lwwi  NJ=t   713S55  839,152  909,41  92.34   975252  97522 975252  97522  975252  975252  975252  975252  975252  975252  97522  975252
ihR um5                0   6949   84976 1.11392D 1.1997i93 1571.74) 169.712 1,79595 1365974 1865981 1551  165981 165981 15981 15981 15981
khCibFts          -1L769J  -14363571 -317!334 -3NY.156  997"   S33  WA   719MM1791   1777963 1   5  MM  13M526 131152  1799528 1!ES8
ERmicR*dT"                                                           -23.5  -135/.  -73%   -3.'/o  O1%   2.3%   41%    54/.  65%
Pf*dERR              65%
CbhFbwfbrCua      -2112373 -1537370 4234,189 42424743  4E153 -105.3 7K52  1234P0  129983 128)  13077 13134) 13122%  1311265 1310265 1309265
Fn,ri4 R* cRctm1                                                     -353%  -2331/.  -167% -11.7%   -&1%   -54%   -32%   -I6/. 6% r.
GFRR                4/.
III. Project Evaluation by the Implementing Agency
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
IBRD LOAN No.3814 LV
PROJECT EVALUATION FROM PERSPECTIVE OF THE IMPLEMENTING
AGENCY- "LIEPAJA WATER" Ltd.
This is the Project Evaluation Report prepared by the implementing agency
Liepaja Water" LTD. The total value of the Project is USD 19.67 million. The
funding of the Project was approved by signing loan and grant agreements with
the Financiers during the period from the end '94 till the date of effectiveness of
the World Bank Loan Agreement on 9th May, 1995
INTRODUCTION
The Project was proposed and started in 1994 and has been developed as a regional
environmental management project consisting of two complimentary components for
improvement of the Baltic coast of Latvia. The Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component included funding for:
a) rehabilitation and expansion of the Liepaja water and wastewater system;
b) training and other institutional support, including twinning arrangements, to
assist in establishing an autonomous and financially independent water and
wastewater utility in Liepaja.
- 63 -



Before the Project was started, the coastal waters of Liepaja, as well as the Lake
Liepaja and the City Cannel were severely polluted and contaminated by insufficiently
treated or untreated wastewater discharges due to the poor condition and limited
capacity of the Wastewater Treatment Plant. The water network was facing leakages
and inefficient hydraulic performance, lack of metering and poor disinfection of drinking
water.
The municipal "Liepaja Water" LTD to be privatized (at that time it was the Municipal
Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise) was willing to examine new approaches to
management, develop an investment program and to place a priority on operation and
maintenance issues, as well as to improve tariff/bill collection.
The city of Liepaja was included in the list of "hot spots" on the Baltic Sea, and the
Government of Latvia acknowledged the city of Liepaja as their priority for national and
foreign investments in environmental protection with an overall objective to work
towards the requirements set by HELCOM. So, the Liepaja Environment Project
became the first intemationally financed environmental investment Project in Latvia.
OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the Project set for the utility were the following:
a) to reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic
Sea;
b) to restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality;
c)  to improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services;
d) to improve the operational efficiency and management systems of the utility.
PROCUREMENT AND PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION ACC TO PROJECT
COMPONENTS
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TION UNIT
The component Project Implementation Unit was combined with the component Contract
Co-ordination/Supervision in November, 1995 The reason for that was close relationship
between the two components - both were meant for contracting consultancy services for PIU
assistance and contract supervision with transfer of knowledge.
Thus, the total amount in the combined component according to SAR was USD 1.68
million: USD 840.000 allocated for Project Implementation Unit and USD 840.000
allocated for Contract Co-ordination/Supervision with the funds from the WB and the
GoL. The actual amount spent was USD 1.15 million.
As during the Project implementation the allocated amount was just partly used for
consultancy services, the remaining amount of USD 0.53 million was reallocated to other
components where the funds were implemented according to the up-dated procurement
-64 -



packages. The PIU regularly up-dated the procurement schedule elaborated by the WB and
presented in the SAR.
The funds of the component were used to cover the costs for the following:
1) Project Implementation Unit
The PIU was established in September, 1994 It was composed according to the WB
requirements for certain qualifications of the staff. From September, 1994 to March,
1995 the PIU had the following positions: Director, Deputy Director, Secretary,
Accountant, Lawyer (part-time), Interpreter, Interpreter, Driver.
In 1995 the PIU faced reorganization. the Director resigned; the remaining staff was
restructured taking into account their capabilities and qualifications:  the Deputy
Director was appointed the Director, the Secretary - the Deputy Director.
In May - July, 1995 the PIU contracted an Economist in order to develop and
implement the project financial monitoring.
As the language skills of the PIU staff were improving, in March, 1996 one of the
interpreters was reduced. The PIU reduced to six positions.
Since 1 November, 1996 the PIU consisted of four staff members: Director, Deputy
Director, Accountant, Driver.
The PIU receives quality support and assistance from the company specialists on
financial and technical issues.
The PIU activities are in accordance with the guideliAes and requirements set for the
PIU in the SAR and according to the rules set by the Financiers on procurement,
contract administration and reporting.
2) Assistance to the PIU and Supervision of Contracts
The PIU was assisted by a Consultant who transferred knowledge to the PIU on all
issues within the scope of work of the PIU.
The first Contract for the PIU Assistance and Contract Supervision was signed in
December, 1994 with the completion date in May, 1995 for the total amount of USD
76.681 from the WB Loan.
Further consultancy service to assist the PIU and supervise contracts was procured
from the company Parkman for the total amount of 197.967 from September, 1995 till
November, 1996 The original contract for one year was extended by another year from
November, 1996 till November, 1997 for the total amount of USD 202.000 from the
WB Loan.
The scope of service was in accordance with the TORs. Assistance was received for all
components under progress during the consultancy period. The Consultant's input in
the Project contributed a lot for better achievement of the Project goals and was highly
appreciated. Evidence for that is successful procurement and administration of
contracts within the planned time schedules.
- 65 -



3) Tariff Study
The tariff study was initiated by Mr. Summerfield in September, 1995 and carried out
in accordance with the TORs prepared by the World Bank. The study was completed in
March, 1996 The Contract for the total amount of USD 29.150 was financed by the
WB. The benefit of the study: 1 the recommendations can be used for tariff and
financial projections and analysis; 2) the interlinked tables are used by LW.
WA TER SUPPL Y
1. New Otanki Main
The total amount allocated to this component was USD 1,13 million by WB and GoL.
The actual amount spent was USD 1.117 million.
The scope of this component was implemented in two stages.
1) Otanki-95
The first stage was done in 1995 in accordance with the SAR, namely construction of
the Main was completed by laying the missing 1600m-long pipe section. The goods
were procured in June covered from the WB funds. The civil works for laying 600 mrn
pipe in length of 1600 m were completed in October and financed 27% by the WB and
73% from the local funds. The contract was extended for completion of the pipeline
which was built in 1992 but not commissioned. The contract included construction of
the connections, chambers, the 600 mm pipeline cleaning and testing in the length of
3000 m. The contract was finalized in November with local financing.
2) Otanki-96
The second stage was not planned in SAR. The second stage was implemented from
the remaining funds in this component. The contract for procurement of pipes was
signed in April, 1996 and financed from by the WB. The civil works of 200 mm pipe
in the length of 2000 m were finished in October, 1996 with financing of 20% from the
WB and 80% from the GoL. The contract extension was signed for construction of the
connections, chambers, the 600/500/400/300/200 mm pipeline cleaning and testing in
the length of 5000 m. The contract was finalized in November with local financing.
After completion of the two stages, leakage's of 800.000 m/year were eliminated; the
cost saving was estimated 96.000 Ls/year.
2. Service Extension
- 66 -



The total amount allocated to this component was USD 0.14 million from WB and GoL.
A Questionnaire for people with no water and sewer connection was prepared in November
1995. One hundred and ninety households were surveyed in December 1995. The answers
were summarized and a conclusion was made that implementation of the component is not
purposeful and the allocated amount can be used for reconstruction of water mains which was
approved by the Financiers.
Rehabilitation of Transmission Main - a new component
The new component was included in order to use the remaining amount for
rehabilitation of the water network which did not comply with the technical
requirements for operation and was facing leakage's. The situation caused problems to
customers and losses to the utility.
The total amount of the implemented funds is USD 0.90 million from WB and GoL. The
amount was compiled from reallocations of the remaining funds in various components.
1) Reconstruction of the pipeline in Ganibu Street
The contract for procurement of goods was signed in March, 1998 and was financed by
the WB. The civil works for laying the 400 in the length of 1600 m were completed in
October, 1998 and was financed from the local funds.
Reconstruction of the pipeline in Ganibu Street resulted in elimination of leakage's
which totaled in loss of 160.000 m of water in 1997.
2) Reconstruction of the pipeline in Cenkones Street
The contract for procurement of goods was signed in April, 1999 and was financed by
the WB. The civil works for laying the 400 in the length of 1400 m were completed in
November, 1999 and financed from the local funds.
Reconstruction of the pipeline in Cenkones Street resulted in elimination of leakage's
which totaled in loss of 80.000 m of water in 1998.
3. Water Conservation
The allocated funds were USD 0.4 million from WB and GoL. The actual amount used
was USD 0.395 million.
In order to reach the project objectives - to identify and reduce water leakage's, improve
record keeping and control of water production and distribution in the network, the following
was completed:
1) 10 contracts were signed for procurement of various specialized equipment and
software.
- 67 -



The first contract was signed in October, 1996 The following equipment was procured:
network software, repair clamps, pressure transducers, surveying equipment, flow
measurement, leak detection. For Aistere wellfield, telemetry and control equipment
and software were installed in 1997.
All the above-listed procurements were financed from the WB funds.
2) 865 water meters were procured and installed in residential houses and in the
network in 1997. In 1998 - 535 water meters were procured with installation in 1999.
The WB and local funds were used for the water meter project.
4. Laboratory Equipment
Acc to the SAR the allocated amount was USD 0.18 million from WB and GoL. The
actual implementation costs were USD 0.27 million.
The component included:
1) Up-grading of the laboratory equipment.
The first supply contract was signed in August, 1995 Totally there were 5 contracts
with the final completion time in June, 1996 The procurement of the laboratory
equipment was financed from the WB.
2) Reconstruction of the building which was additional scope.
Operation of the new equipment required reconstruction of the building and facilities -
heating system, ventilation, security, appropriate furnishing. The reconstruction was
financed from the GoL.
On 8 July, 1998 the laboratory passed the accreditation test confirming its aptitude to do
testing according to the European standards for drinking water, sewerage, surface water,
activated sludge, physical and chemical testing of soil, microbiological testing.
5. Chlorination Equipment /Iron Removal
The funds USD 0.12 million were reallocated to and used in another component as
EU-Phare expressed its interest in financing construction of iron removal plants including
chlorinating equipment. The WB's agreement with such arrangement was obtained during the
WB Mission in April, 1998
6. Implementation Surveys
The allocated funds were USD 0.24 million from WB and GoL. The actual amount of the
whole component was USD 0.301 million.
1) Audit
- 68 -



Auditing of the "Liepaja Water" LTD and the LEP was done for years 1995,1996,1997,
with funding from the WB, 1998 and 1999 with funding from the GoL.
2) Fixed Asset Revaluation
In January, 1997 a contract was signed for asset evaluation, with the Final Report and
the value of the fixed assets in February. The contract was financed from the WB
funds.
3) Iron Removal - a new sub-component
Further improvement of the service quality required studies for iron removal in water.
Therefore, the TORs were developed for identification of the best suitable method and
pilot studies. The pilot tests and studies started in September, 1997 with the Final
Report in 1998. The scope of the studies included preparation of the Tender
Documents for a Turn-key contract. The Document package was later used by EU
Phare Consultants while preparing the Tender Documents for construction of two iron
removal and chlorinating plants.
7. Water Pumps - a new component
The component was developed due to necessity of reconstruction of water pump stations
which did not meet the technical requirements.
The totally implemented amount was USD 0.509 million from NEFCO and GoL; with
NEFCO reallocation of USD 0.335 million.
The component was started with NEFCO's no-objection on 25 February, 1998 for reallocation
of funds from the components WTP and NSI to the new component - Water Pumps.
1) Reconstruction of Booster Pump Station at Ventas Str.
The supply contract was signed in August, 1998 and the reconstruction was completed
in March, 1999 Four booster pumps were installed, electrical and mechanical
equipment was up-dated, internal pipework was changed. Consumption of power was
reduced by 300.000 kW/h per year
2) Reconstruction of borehole pumps in the welifields at Aistere and Otanki.
The supply contract was signed in August, 1998 and the reconstruction will be
completed in October, 1999 The reconstruction will result in change of 37 borehole
pumps, electrical and mechanical equipment and pipework. Consumption of power was
reduced by 1.000.000 kW/h per year
3) Reconstruction of Booster Pump Station at Alsungas Str.
The supply contract was signed in October, 1998 and the reconstruction will be
completed in June, 1999 Four booster pumps were installed, electrical and mechanical
equipment was up-dated, internal pipework was changed. Consumption of power was
reduced by 300.000 kW/h per year.
- 69 -



Installation of the pumps is being financed from the GoL funds. The installation of the
pumps started in December, 1998 and the booster pumps were in place in May, 1999
The installation of the borehole pumps was financed by "Liepajas udens" own funds
and was completed in September, 1999
Consumption of power in the whole water supply system has reduced by 1.6 million
kW/h or Ls 54.000 per year.
SEWERAGE
1.-4. Completion of new WWTP (Wastewater Treatment Plant) / North and South
Interceptors / Spare Parts
According to the SAR, there were four separate components. As in January, 1997 a turn-key
contract was signed with one company for the scope of work of the four components, a
combined component was established to achieve better implementation and supervision.
The total allocated amount of the combined component was USD 8.1 million from Sida,
NEFCO and Government of Latvia. The actual cost of works was USD 7.5 million with
USD 6.5 million from Sida and USD 1.0 million from GoL as earmarked investments.
Implementation of the component started with signing a contract with a consultancy company
for design, contract supervision during construction and maintenance period. The consultancy
contract was signed in June, 1995 and completed in February, 1999
The Tum-key contract was started in January, 1997 with the scope of reconstruction of the
WTP and Interceptors. The contract was completed on 25 May, 1998 - after a three-month
commissioning period of the WTP.
The designed capacity of the WTP is 105.000 m/day (4.375 m/hour) taking into account max.
amounts of precipitation and based on assumption that the population will increase up to
100.300 people till 2010.
Reconstruction of the WTP resulted in increase of the capacity: from max. capacity of 22.000
m/day to average capacity of 55.000 rnday with mechanical and biological treatment. The
capacity is sufficient in order to achieve HELCOM standards in wastewater treatment.
Treatment quality is as follows:
- 70 -



Helcom            SWECO               1996          1999 2nd
quarter
mg/i              mg1             mg/i            M/
P,ot            1,5               1,0               3,85            0,93
N               12                7,0               19              16.06
tot
BOD7            15                10                12,1            3,74
Susp.s.         35                10,5              13,6
COD                                                 46,5            47,18
Increase in effectiveness of treatment in %:
N - from 40% in 1996 to 70% in 1999
to,
P - from 41% in 1996 to 80% in 1999
tot
BOD7 - from 87% in 1996 to 93% in 1999
Construction of the interceptors resulted in elimination of 14 discharges in the City Canal and 8
- in the Liepaja Lake. The total volume of the new connections to the WTP is 4.807 m/day.
After reconstruction, 96.5% (in comparison to 83.3% before reconstruction) of wastewater is
treated according to HELCOM requirements.
5. Partly New Terminal Main & Rehabilitation of Main Pump Station
The total amount allocated to this component was USD 4.86 million by Government of
Finland, NEFCO and GoL; the actual cost was USD 4.76 million covered by WB,
Government of Finland, NEFCO and GoL. The remaining amount from the Finnish
funds was reallocated to Sewer Rehabilitation/Reconstruction.
1) New Terminal Main (according to SAR: Partly New)
The Financiers for procurement of goods changed: funds from WB and NEFCO were
used instead of funds from Finland and NEFCO. The reallocation was done in order to
broaden the market and get a more competitive price.
The design for reconstruction of the Main was carried out by a Finnish consulting
company financed from the Finnish grant. The consultancy period was June, 1995 -
February, 1996
The contract for supply of goods was signed in October, 1996 with financing from WB
and NEFCO.
The civil works contract for laying 1000 mm pipe in 7000m length started in December,
1996 and finished in November, 1997 financed from GoL.
The Terminal Main was constructed in the full length from the Main Pump Station to
the WTP. The Main was commissioned in February, 1998 commissioning was
- 71 -



co-ordinated with the time schedule for reconstruction of the WTP.
2) Main Pump Station
All contracts were financed from the allocations by Governments of Finland and Latvia.
Design for reconstruction of the Main Pump Station was started in June, 1995 the
actual reconstruction lasted from February, 1996 till September, 1998 The
reconstruction comprised: installation of 4 new pumps, electrical and mechanical
equipment, pump automatic control including all small pump stations, reconstruction of
the building,
3) Small Pump Stations - a new component
After completion of the two above-described components, all the remaining funds were
used for reconstruction of the small pump stations. The contract was started in
September, 1997 and will be completed in August, 1999 The scope of the contract
includes: new electrical and mechanical equipment and pipe connections in 11 pump
stations; centralized control system for all 15 pump stations; security system in all pump
stations.
Reconstruction of the small pump stations resulted in economy of electrical power of
550.000 kW/h per year.
6.-7.Sewer Reconstruction/Rehabilitation
The total amount allocated was USD 2.08 million by WB and GoL. The actual cost of the
component was USD 1.91 million by WB, NEFCO, Governments of Finland and Latvia.
The SAR included reconstruction/rehabilitation of 2000m of sewer pipes; actually, 3560m
were reconstructed/rehabilitated
Contracts for procurement of the following were signed:
1) Sewer Cleaning Vehicle
The contract was signed in March, 1996 completed in April; financed by the WB.
2) Syphon
Two parallel pipes forming a sewer syphon 400 mm of the total length 250m under the
City Canal were reconstructed in October-December, 1995 with financing from the
Finnish grant.
3) Sewer in 0. Kalpaka Str.
The sewer pipes 600/500/400 mm of the total length 1300m and 200 mm of the total
length 200m were reconstructed in June-December, 1997 The contract was financed by
NEFCO and GoL.
- 72 -



4) Pipes and Chambers for Sewer in Uliha Str.
The goods were supplied in March-May, 1999 with financing from the Finnish grant.
The civil works for laying 500/400 mm pipe of the total length 1 300m and 200/160 mm
pipe of the total length 360m was performed in May-August, 1999 The cost of works
was covered from LW budget.
8. Leakage Detection Program
EU Phare allocated USD 0.110 million; the actual amount of the contract was USD
0.105 million.
The component was implemented in accordance with the SAR: a video inspection
vehicle with equipment was supplied in January, 1996 Specialized training was
included.
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN AUTONOMOUS UTILITY
One of the main objectives of the Project was institutional strengthening, change of legal
status and staff training of the Liepaja water and Wastewater Enterprise.
The municipal limited liability company was established on 21 May, 1998 and registered
in the Enterprise Registry on 28 July, 1998
Transformation of the legal status required a number of activities to be performed. The new
legal status has contributed to successful implementation of the LEP and to finding new
investments for further improvement of water and sewer services and the company
development.
The Action Plan of the SAR included efficient, consistent and reliable cooperation between the
LWWE and the City Council. The cooperation was achieved; and it was orientated on
establishment of a stable autonomous company.
The Liepaja City Council:
passed a decision on 1) agreement with the basic principles of the LEP and the conditions
of the loan and grant agreements; 2) municipal contribution to the LEP; 3) tariff increase 4)
transformation of the LWWE into an independent company.
signed a guarantee (10 January, 1995 for loan and interest payment.
According to the Action Plan, the LWWE was to be transformed into an independent company
before 31 December, 1997 Transformation activities started in August, 1995 by studying and
identifying the laws regulating privatization. The LWWE was agreed to be transformed into a
limited liability company.
The transformation period allowed was exceeded by 8 months due to the following:
1) development of the Statutes, repeated corrections and amendments, approvals by the
Financiers and the City Council, opinions by independent lawyers;
- 73 -



2) changes in legislation which entailed changes in the Statutes;
3) the LWWE asset valuation procured on competitive basis in July-October, 1996 The Final
Report was completed in February, 1997
The full name of the new company is "Liepaja Municipal Liepaja Water Limited Liability
Company to be Privatized". All the obligations and rights of the LWWE were passed on to the
new company. The company share capital is Ls 6.444.836. All shares are owned by the City
Council. The company structure includes a Proxy and the Board. The Board consists of 4
members. The professional qualifications of the Board members are as follows: lawyer,
businessman, economist and financial specialist. The City Council has the right to select the
Board members.
During the transformation period the utility developed new water supply and sewerage service
regulations which were approved by the City Council:
1) "Binding Regulations for Industrial Connections" - on 10 August, 1995 with further
amendments;
2)  "Regulations for Use of Water supply and Sewerage Systems in Liepaja" - on 7 May,
1997
The above-listed regulations are compulsory and binding for the whole municipal terntory.
The Loan Agreement signed between the LWWE and NEFCO included the condition that part
of the loan (USD 500.000) is converted into the share capital of the new company. The present
legislation (Regulations No. 216 dated 15.11.94 by cabinet of Ministers) deny the possibility
for conversion. The Regulations state that in case of privatization of a municipal company, the
private capital (NEFCO portion) shall be no less than 25% of the company share capital. In our
case the private capital constitute approximately 3.36% of the total share capital.
FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
No obvious factors affecting the Project were noted during the implementation period.
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROJECT
Performance of the WB.
The WB should review the time periods allowed for no-objections in procurement.
Occasionally no-objections were too slow which resulted in requests to bidders to extend the
bid validity.
FOLLOW-UP TO THE PROJECT
The LW will continue to work in the same areas as indicated in the Project:
1. Water and Wastewater Improvement
Water supply:
- 74 -



1) improvement of water quality by a) iron removal and b) network jetting;
2) reduction of leakage's by a) further reconstruction of network, b) up-dating of water
record an decontrol system, c) increasing efficiency of work by the emergency team;
3) service extension - new customers.
Sewerage:
1) elimination of contamination of surface and underground water; a) elimination of
discharges into the Tosmare Canal and the Baltic Sea; b) implementation of the program for
sewer reconstruction; c) treatment of wastewater at the WTP according to HELCOM
recommendations; development of the WTP sludge treatment and deposit; d) extension of
sewer network and closure of septics; e) increasing efficiency of work by the emergency team;
2)  secure operation of the system - further reconstruction of the pump stations.
2. Reduction of production and maintenance costs, increase of efficiency
1) up-dating of equipment, effective operation of the equipment;
2)  reduction of transport
3)  improvement of management and performance quality
4)  increase of staff qualifications
5)  staff reduction
3.  Improvement of management
1)  further restructuring
2) strengthening of governance
Report prepared by PIU on May 20,2000
- 75 -



- 76 -



MAP SECTION






21-                           22                            22    Rr  
LAT VIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT
PROJECT
o  Seledced Tovns                                                                     Gtjlf of
Disid Hetdqwoders                                                                     RfgJ
o   Cfiels-efwina hvokueVntspils/                W                             ''        '     ''
Urbnhes A
151- 250
Maioi R*oads
:.   maklnSl - wW- a5                                                         Tuk M }t   eu  ePv<_ <
--M~~~~~Jrain                                   LATV fI <   
Wemotiestl unduries  1    /    'S             
P ~ems ore         t R.
~~~~~~~~~
Sea
~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~t go                        unge                                 Siau
),#  \Y . . X ,4,M4w,. 1R
Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                         il ;i '>k 
argJLSi})-Sm
Zot~~~~~~t
hingil  ;   Ad tf;D X   X   C   V    :          0   :, ~~~~~~~~Ras'in f   .
55g  ,,,,?-',                                 )   WS3S    S                                              0M
u  9  )         -          t          - 5 ureR    <           _  S~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~akiai 
a              '-- )    ~~RUSSIAN.,- ~ ~ '                            >         
3 eFEDERATION
itInngradC)
-JOME0  ' 10 20   30    - 40  50U,
%                            4                                               X'                               0



