Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13429-LV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1994
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of August 1, 1994
Currency Unit   =  Latvian Lats (Ls.)
I Lats   =  US $1.75
US $1   =  Ls. 0.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton           =          1,000 kilograms = 2,205 pounds (Ibs)
I kilometer (km)       =          1,000 meters (m) = 3,281 feet (ft)
1 meter (m)            =          3,281 feet (ft)
1 centimeter (cm)      =          10 millimeters (mm)
I millimeter (mm)      =          0.1 centimeter (cm)
I cubic meter (m3)     =          35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BITS   =   Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support
BOD   =   Biological Oxygen Demand
CEM    =   Country Economic Memorandum, published in an expanded form
as: "Latvia: The Transition to a Market Economy"
EMC   =   Environmental Management Component
EU PHARE   =   European Union assistance program for Eastern Europe
FRR   =   Financial Rate of Return
FSU   =   Former Soviet Union
GDP   =   Gross Domestic Product
GOL   =   Government of Latvia
HELCOM    =   Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (Helsinki
Commission)
IBRD   =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)
ICB   =   International Competitive Bidding
ICZM    =   Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA   =   International Development Association
IS   =   International Shopping
JCP   =   Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme
LS   =   Local Shopping
LWWE   =   Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise
MIS   =   Management Information System
MOE   =   Ministry of Environment and Regional Development
MOL   =   Municipality of Liepaja
NEFCO   =   Nordic Environment Finance Corporation
PIP   =   Project Implementation Plan
PIU   =   Project Implementation Unit
PPF   =   Project Preparation Facility
WWF   =   World Wide Fund for Nature
WWIC   =   Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
LATVIAN FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ....................................... i
I.   BACKGROUND
A.     Country Context ........................................... 1
B.     Sectoral Context ........................................... 1
C.     The Project Area .......................................... 5
D.     Bank Environment Strategy in Latvia, Past Experience and Rationale  ....         ..... 8
II.    THE PROJECT
A.     Project Origin and Formulation  .............. ....                                  11
B.     Project Objectives ...........................  12
C.     Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities ................ 13
D.     Project Components and Description  ............................. 14
E.     Cost Estimates . ..........................................  15
F.     Project Financing Arrangements ................................ 16
G.   Procurement ............................................. 17
H.     Disbursements . ..........................................  19
l.     Environmental Aspects  .         .................................... 20
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management ............................. 21
B.     Project Implementation Agencies  ............................    21
C.     Project Supervision ............................  23
D.     Accounts and Audits ............................  24
IV.  MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF LIEPAJA WATER AND WASTEWATER
ENTERPRISE
A.     Past Performance and Present Position . ............................ 25
B.     Tariff Levels and Revenues .................................   26
C.   Billing and Collection .................................. 26
D.     Accounting Policies and Audits  ................................  27
E.     Future Financial Performance  ................................. 28
F.  Tariff Affordability . ................................. 29
G.     Financial Rate of Return .............................. ... 29
V.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits ............... 31
B.  Project Risks ............... 32



VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.     Agreements Reached During Negotiations .......            ................... 34
B.     Conditions of Effectiveness . ................................... 34
D.     Recommendation  ........................................  35
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.       Project Cost Summary by Project Comnponent
Table 2.       Disbursements by Year
Table 2.1      Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table 2.2      Summarized Financing Plan
Table 2.3      Procurement Arrangements
Table 2.4      Disbursement by Year
Table 4.1      Tariff Increases
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1        Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2        Action Plan
Annex 3        Terms of Reference
3A Twinning Arrangements
3B Tariff Study
Annex 4        Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -
Environmental Aspects
Annex 5        Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6        Review of Affordability
MAP            IBRD Map of Latvia no. 26165
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission in June 1994. Members of the Appraisal team
included: Mr. Stephen F. Lintner (Task Manager), Ms. Sari Soderstrom (Deputy Task Manager/Economist),
Mr. Hans Bergman (Economist, Swedish Ministry of Environment), Ms. Camilla Brown (Operations Analyst),
Mr. Lars Eklund (Environmental Engineer, Swedish Environmental Protection Agency), Mr. Anders Halldin (Senior
Environmental Specialist), Mr. Frederick Hasselback (Financial Economist), Mr. Jaakko Henttonen (Program
Director, Finnish Ministry of Environment), Mr. Kari Homanen (Regional Environmental Specialist),
Mr. Peter lanachkov (Legal Advisor), Mr. Inesis Kiskis (Regional Environmental Specialist), Ms. Solveig
Nordstrom (Investment Officer, Nordic Environment Finance Corporation - NEFCO), Mr. Arturo Roa (Procurement
Consultant), and Mr. Peteris Zilgalvis (Regional Environmental Specialist). Ms. Katherin Golitzen (ENVLW)
served as the editor for the document. Technical assistance for preparation was provided by the World Bank,
European Union PHARE Program  and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).  Peer reviewers were
Bernardo Gomez (ECIIN) and Carl Gustaf Lundin (ENVLW). The economic and financial analysis was reviewed
by Brian Berman (EC4NR). The Division Chief is Geoffrey Fox (EC4NR) and the Deparment Director is
Basil Kavalsky (EC4DR).



REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Latvia
Beneficiaries:      The Ministry of the Environment and Regional Development and the Liepaja
Water and Wastewater Enterprise.
IBRD Loan Amount: US $4.0 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                           Local    Foreign      Total
-------- US $ million --------
IBRD, (loan)                          0.72       3.28       4.00
NEFCO, (loan)                         0.86       1.14       2.00
BITS, Sweden (grant)                  0.12       6.38       6.50
Min. of Environment, Finland (grant)             2.00       2.00
Min. of Environment, Denmark (grant)             0.50       0.50
EU PHARE Program (grant)                         0.12       0.12
Other Donors (grants)                            0.80       0.80
Govermnent of Latvia                  3.50                  3.50
Municipality of Liepaja                1.75                 1.75
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   6.95      14.22      21.17
Terms:              Seventeen years, including five years grace, at standard IBRD variable interest
rate.
Onlending Tenrs:   The Ministry of Finance would provide the funds directly to the Liepaja Water
and Wastewater Enterprises (LWWE).
Project
Objectives:         The Project would: (a) reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated
wastewater to the Baltic Sea; (b) restore and enhance the water quality in Liepaja,
the northern portion of Lake Liepaja and adjacent recreational beaches on the
Baltic Sea; (c) improve water supply and sanitation services in Liepaja; (d)
improve the operational efficiency and management systems of the Liepaja Water
and Wastewater Enterprise; and (e) promote environmentally sustainable
management and development of the coastal zone and protected areas in and
around the Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi regions, including management of
tourism development.



ii
Project
Description:         The proposed Project would be developed as an environmental management
project for the Baltic coast of Latvia and would include funding for: (a)
rehabilitation and expansion of the Liepaja water and wastewater system; (b)
training and other institutional support, including twinning arrangements, to assist
in establishing an autonomous and financially independent water and wastewater
utility in Liepaja; (c) technical and financial support for the development and
implementation of a comprehensive management plan for adjacent coastal areas
and wetlands; and (d) support in the development of recreational and nature-
based tourism in the Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi regions.
Project Benefits:    The benefits of the WWIC would be derived from: (a) improved water quality
through reduction of leakage of wastewater into the groundwater and reductions
in discharges of untreated and partially treated wastewater, tiereby improving the
status of the City Channel, Lake Liepaja and the Baltic Sea; (b) reductions in
operating costs and maintenance requirements in the water and wastewater
systems; and (c) improvement in the quality and reliability of the services
through establishment of an autonomous water and wastewater utility. The
benefits of the Environmental Management Component (EMC) would be derived
from: (a) environmentally sound development of coastal and recreational areas
in the Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi regions; (b) enhanced management and
improved public access for protected areas; and (c) demonstration of planning
and implementation methods for regional coastal zone and tourism development
programs.
Environmental
Aspects:             An environmental review has been prepared, consistent with the provisions of the
World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment" and the
applicable environmental procedures of the Government of Latvia. The proposed
Project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" since most of
the potential impacts are expected to be beneficial and negative impacts limited.
It should be noted that support for improved municipal water and wastewater
infrastructure would focus on the completion or rehabilitation of existing
facilities. In the case of activities for improved management of the coastal zone
and protected areas, these activities would largely occur in areas which are
presently designated as recreational or natural areas and they would not involve
resettlement of any current residents.
Project Risks:       The main risks are: (a) the sustained political commitment of the Liepaja City
Council to support an independently managed water and wastewater utility;
(b) political or macroeconomic factors which may interfere with the commitment
of the Liepaja City Council to raise tariffs sufficiently to adequately fund the
costs of the utility, including repayment of the Bank loan; (c) a longer
implementation period due to limited implementation capacity; (d) continued
difficulties in the effective collection of water bills; and (e) possible resistance
from local governments and private land owners to land use controls
recommended under coastal zone, tourism and protected areas management plans.



iii
These risks would be reduced by: (a) implementation of a time-bound schedule
for corporatization of the LWWE; (b) carefully monitoring the requirements for
tariff increases and providing significant institutional development support to the
utility to improve its financial management, billing and collection practices; (c)
ensuring appropriate project management arrangements are in place in a timely
manner; (d) providing procurement assistance; and (e) incorporating an active
local participation process into the development and implementation of the
proposed land use management systems.



iv
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT*
------- US $ Million -----------
Local       Foreign       Total
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Project Implementation Unit                                        0.23         0.37         0.60
Water Supply and Distribution                                      0.42         1.37          1.79
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment                                  2.81         8.67        11.48
Contract Coordination and Supervision                              0.27         0.30         0.57
Technical Assistance and Training                                  0.07         0.44         0.51
Base Cost for Water and Wastewater Component               3.80        11.15         14.95
B. Environmental Management Component                              0.20 **      1.30          1.50
Physical Contingencies                                             0.38         1.11          1.49
Price Contingencies                                                2.57         0.66         3.23
Total for Water and Wastewater Component                           6.75        12.92        19.67
Total for Environmental Management Component                       0.20         1.30          1.50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                                       6.95        14.22        21.17
* Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.
** ILocal contributions for this compnoent would include land and services in kind.
The total amount would be established after completion and review by
GOL of management plans to be prepared under this component.
Table 2: DISBURSEMENT BY YEAR
(US$ Million)
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
Bank Fiscal Year
Annual 1.86                               7.09     6.12      4.46      1.30     0.34
Cumulative                                1.86      8.95    15.07    19.53    20.83    21.17
Cumulative % Total                        8.79    42.28    71.19    92.25    98.39   100.00
Estimated Closing Date:   March 31, 2000
Poverty Category:       Not applicable
Maps:                   IBRD No. 26165



I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1           Latvia is a country covering 65,600 km2 with a population of 2.6 million located on the
eastern edge of the Baltic Sea. During the Soviet period, Latvia had a strong economy based on
specialized industries and agriculture which was fully integrated into the larger Soviet system. Since the
restoration of Latvian independence in 1991, the country has undertaken a major program of political and
economic reforms, which has brought it from a centrally planned economy to a transitional market
economy. In this process, it has experienced adjustmenit shocks common to many economies in transition,
characterized by a significant decline in economic productivity and high inflation rates, with the gross
domestic product (GDP) declining sharply as a result of the collapse of trading relations with Russia and
other former Soviet Republics.
1.2           The Government of Latvia (GOL) has been pursuing economic reform and stabilization,
including price and trade liberalization. A formal macro-econiomic program was launched in July 1992,
supported by an International Monetary Fund standby arrangement. Since then, Latvia has been successful
in containing monetary expansion and fiscal deficits. It also has successfully introduced its new currency,
the Lats, in 1993. Inflation has been reduced from an annual rate of over 1,000 percent in 1992 to an
expected rate of about 30 percent in 1994. The estimated per capita income level was US $2,030 in 1993.
The Bank expects the Latvian economy is expected to recover from its current economic recession with
a GDP growth rate of about 4 percent per year between 1995 and 1997 and 5 percent per year thereafter.
1.3           The Bank's overall strategy in Latvia is to support the country's efforts to accelerate
structural reforms leading to a full transition to a market-based economy and, concurrently, to support
efficient investments in high priority sectors to facilitate return to economic growth. To date the Bank
has provided the GOL with a Rehabilitation Loan of US $45 million in October 1992 (No. 3525-LV),
and an Agricultural Development Loan of US $25 million in January 1994 (No. 3645-LV), both of which
are being successfully implemented.
1.4          Infrastructure rehabilitation and development is considered one of the Bank's priorities
in Latvia. The recently completed Public Expenditure Review, jointly prepared by the GOL and the Bank,
highlighted the need to support priority investments in energy, transport and environmental services,
including improved water supply and wastewater treatment. The priority given to investments for
environmental services was justified by the need to improve the quality and reliability of drinking water
and to address the water quality problems and health risks created by the discharge of partially treated
and untreated wastewater to water courses and the marine environment. The proposed Project would
support the improvement of water and wastewater services in the important port city of Liepaja and
demonstrate the application of a variety of management methods to support environmentally sound
development in the coastal area surrounding Liepaja.
B. Sectoral Context
1.5          Institutional Setting. The central environmental protection authority in Latvia is the
Ministry of Environment and Regional Development (MOE) which is the successor to the former
Environmental Protection Committee. The MOE is responsible for: formulating and implementing
Latvia's policy for environmental protection and natural resource use; making state environmental impact
assessments; establishing environmental standards; and, administering and enforcing environmental
protection and natural resource use throughout Latvia, the continental shelf, and the nation's Baltic Sea



economic zone. The MOE is also responsible for management of protected areas and tourism
development. The responsibilities of the MOE in this sphere include regulation of construction,
supervision of approved land-use programs, and regulation of agricultural run-off.
1.6           Under the overall guidance of the MOE, nine regional environmental protection
committees are responsible for enforcing environmental regulations, issuing permits for projects and
providing public information services to the twenty six regional administrative governments. The principal
functions of the regional environmental protection committees are: (a) determination of pollution charges;
(b) pollution monitoring; (c) inspection for compliance with requirements; (d) imposition of penalties for
non-compliance; and (e) negotiation of steps toward compliance. Responsibility for development, zoning
and management of the coastal area and wetlands is delegated to local governments; they issue permits
and licenses with co-approval of other agencies depending on the nature of the proposed activity.
1.7           While the MOE has a policy and coordination role, operational level responsibilities for
municipal water and wastewater services have been passed to local governments as part of the process
of decentralization. Under the Law of Local Government, the municipality is empowered to issue statutes
which grant municipal enterprises the rights, duties, and obligations necessary to enable them to carry
out their functions. Such statutes generally follow a single pro-forma, which is applied across the country,
but which varies according to individual circumstances.
1.8           Legislative Framework. The Law on Environmental Protection (August 1991) is an
omnibus environmental protection law, which (a) delegates responsibility regarding environmental
protection, natural resource use, environmental impact assessment procedures, standards, permits and
public information, and (b) sets out goals for the protection of the environment and the rational utilization
of natural resources. The protection of coastal zones and protected areas is regulated in detailed
resolutions and guidelines on the utilization and construction of the Latvian sea coast and nature reserves
issued by MOE and a number of other national and regional level organizations. Problems in enforcing
these guidelines are increasingly difficult as land is being returned to its former owners and development
pressures arise between environmental institutions and the reinstated landowners, who are in need of
immediate income during this difficult economic period.
1.9           "Environmental Standards In Latvia," the regulatory legislation for water and air
pollution, is based on USSR environmental quality standards which were in force at Latvia's
independence in September 1991. There were almost 4,000 water quality indicators applied in the forner
Soviet Union (FSU) which defined water quality requirements. Currently, Latvia uses these standards and
has added a limited number of its own national standards. In the aggregate, these water quality standards
are more stringent than those of the European Union or United States, are seen as being too strict, too
large in number, and impossible to monitor and analyze. The Law on Natural Resource and Pollution
Charges (December 1990) established charges for the use of natural resources and the release of effluents
within standards and it establishes sanctions against users who exceed permitted levels. Normal tax
revenues are divided, with 25 percent going to the state budget and 75 percent being paid into the local
government budget. Tax revenues for discharges in excess of the prescribed limits are paid into the
Environmental Protection Fund which collects fines that are used by the national and local governments
to fund a wide range of activities. The monitoring of pollution and natural resource use for assessing fees
and fines is hampered by lack of equipment and personnel in the regional environmental protection
committees.



1.10         Latvia is a party to a number of international environmental conventions and treaties. It
has signed and ratified the "Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea
Area" (Helsinki Convention), which obligates it to undertake concrete actions to reduce marine pollution
from land based sources and to implement a wide range of recommendations on various environmental
matters which are developed by the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM) through a process of active input,
review and approval by the signatory parties to the Convention. In this context, Latvia has been an active
participant in many programs of HELCOM, including the Programme Implementation Task Force which
is responsible for coordinating implementation of the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental
Action Program (JCP) which was adopted in 1992. In addition, Latvia has signed and ratified, or is in
the process of doing so, the Bern, Ramsar and other Conventions concerning the conservation of animal
and plant species, including their critical habitats, and wetlands. It is also active in the Environmental
Action Program for Central and Eastern Europe and the environmental working groups of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
1.11          Water Supply Service Coverage. Groundwater resources are increasingly being exploited
in the major urban and industrial areas in Latvia due to widespread pollution of surface and shallow
groundwater from point and non-point sources. Overextraction of groundwater has caused a drop in the
water table, and the possibility of seawater intrusion is a risk in many locations. Shortages of water
treatment chemicals are common, resulting in sporadic outbursts of waterborne diseases due to
contaminated drinking water.
1.12         About 92 percent of Latvian households receive piped water, although in some rural
conmmunities this ratio is as low as 60 percent. The average water consumption per capita in Latvia on
average is relatively high, over 200 liters/day, compared to an average of 150 liters/day in Western
European countries. This high consumption is partially encouraged by the absence of metering, but can
also be explained by severe leakages in the water distribution system which is in generally poor condition.
Leakage rates of drinking water are estimated at approximately 25-35 percent and can be as high as 50
percent in some water supply systems.
1.13         Sewerage Service Coverage. More than 90 percent of urban households are connected to
piped sewerage systems. Separate systems for sewerage and storm water were introduced in the 1960s,
but in some older sections of towns stormwater systems are lacking, putting an additional burden on the
sewerage system. The annual discharge of wastewater in Latvia is 367 million m3, of which 65 percent
is treated. The existing wastewater treatment plants are moderately to severely overloaded, resulting in
large portions of their flow being discharged after partial treatment or being bypassed with no treatment.
Approximately 50 percent of the municipal discharge is from industries connected to the municipal
sewers, of which it is estimated that only 10 percent receives pre-treatment, itself often inadequate.
1.14         Existing sewerage systems are in poor condition resulting in groundwater contamination
and an imminent risk of contaminating the water supply system through pipes built close together. In
addition, infiltration of groundwater and surface run off into the sewer system increases wastewater flows,
causing additional overloading of the treatment plants
1.15         Sector Investments and Financing. User charges for water and sewerage are now the
responsibility of the municipalities but have to be approved by the city councils. Although water and
sewerage tariffs have generally been increased, they are still inadequate to permit full cost recovery of
operations, maintenance and capital charges or for new investments. In general, most water and sewerage



- 4 -
enterprises cover their operating expenses and maintenance costs in theory, but investment costs are
financed by transfers from state and/or city budgets. Consumer non-payment has and continues to be a
serious default problem for all cities (sometimes adding up to 50 percent of the billed amount); real cost
recovery is therefore not taking place.
1.16           In order to implement sound managemiienit practices, tariffs would need to be increased
by the majority of the country's water and wastewater utilities and collection performance would need
to be improved. Strategies for financing the replacement and rehabilitation of old equipment and
distribution system rehabilitation would have to be explored, along with improved tariff collection
methods.
1.17           Privatizationt Issues. Privatization of state-owned property in Latvia is proceeding, but
there remain difficult issues to address. Now that the Privatization Agency and the most important related
legislation are in place, the GOL has stated its intenition to move rapidly with large scale privatization.
A list of large state enterprises to be privatized was published recently. There are no imminent plans for
large scale privatization of water supply enterprises in Latvia. It is not excluded, however, that
municipalities may enter into different kinds of joint ventures or concessional agreements with foreign
private companies for the operation of the water and wastewater utilities.
1.18           Sector Objectives and Priority Needls. Environmental issues are a central concern for the
GOL which takes its international environmenital commllitments seriously. The GOL is committed to
improving water resources management in the country and has stated its clear intent to develop new and
more effective mechanisms for water pollution control. This is hampered, however, by the current overall
economic situation of the country, which makes it unlikely that the GOL can undertake any major public
infrastructure investments in the water sector without external funding support.
1.19           Country Environment Policv anid Strategy. Latvia's environmental problems are
concentrated in the urban areas, water and wastewater issues being one of the priorities. An
environmental action plan is niow being prepared by a joint Latvian and Dutch consultant team with
financing from the Government of the Netherlands. It will be complemented by a natural resources
strategy supported by the Government of Sweden. These strategies hopefully would support a shift in
approach from one of reactive control to one of proactive management, with a balanced focus on
preventive and curative actions.
1.20           Coastal Zone and ProtectedAreas. Latvia has protected areas covering approximately 6.4
percent of the total land area. Wetlands occupy approximately 10 percent of the total area of the country.
The protected areas are separated into the following categories: (a) nature reserves; (b) national parks;
(c) nature parks; (d) natural monuments; (e) restricted use natural areas; and (f) protected landscapes. All
are under the jurisdiction of the MOE.
1.21          The maintenance of enviromnental values in the coastal and protected areas is becoming
increasingly complex due to the ongoing process of restoring land to pre-1940 owners and their heirs and
subsequent development and speculative pressures. In a number of cases, the returned property is part
of nature reserves established during the USSR/Latvian SSR period. In addition, farmers' strong interests
in obtaining additional agricultural land through drainage improvements is a potential threat to the
remaining Latvian wetlands. Historically, large-scale investments for agricultural drainage and the
clearance of flood plain forests have had a major influence on the status and distribution of natural areas



- 5 -
of wetland habitat. Wetlands in Latvia and elsewhere in the Baltic Sea region have become the focus of
major conservation efforts given their increasingly recognized importance in regulating of hydrological
conditions, acting as traps and natural treatment systems for nutrients and other organic pollutants,
providing spawning and feeding areas for fish, and functioning as critical habitat for a wide variety of
plant species in addition to resident and migratory birds. As a result of this increased awareness of their
importance, greater efforts have been made to conserve the remaining wetlands, with many areas being
placed under various forms of protection.
1.22          Tourism Development. Latvia, including its Baltic coast, is viewed by the MOE and a
number of foreign tourism specialists as having a strong potential to attract tourists from the greater Baltic
region who wish to take vacations that increasingly include nature oriented recreational and leisure
activities in a relatively undeveloped coastal setting. These visitors would be attracted by the lack of
development of the region, the relatively low population densities and the large sections of undeveloped
and accessible coastal beaches. Potential also exists for specialized tourism associated with observation
of seasonal bird migrations, viewing wildlife species rare in other parts of Europe and visits to traditional
villages characterized by strong vernacular architectural traditions. From an economic viewpoint, the
development of tourism in the region is important for a "post-military economy" diversification, creation
of employment to replace jobs lost by closure of industrial facilities and creation of income generation
opportunities in rural settlements which have suffered serious economic dislocations during the
restructuring process.
1.23          Latvian tourism has been dominated by visitors to Riga, and its nearby attractions such
as Jurmala and Sigulda (Gaujas National Park). However, the MOE, which is responsible for tourism,
plans to stimulate visits in the outlying regions by emphasizing tourism which is friendly to the
environment and which would utilize private homes, farm houses and small inns for accommodation. This
concept of tourist development emphasizes the natural and cultural/historical aspects of Latvia's
countryside. The Courland coast, which reaches from Kolka Point north of Ventspils to the Latvian-
Lithuanian border, is one of the areas that is being promoted as such a tourist destination. Currently, local
and foreign visitors are traveling seasonally to the Liepaja region on bird watching trips in large
organized groups in buses. Individual tourists are visiting from Riga and from Lithuania and staying at
a variety of local accommodations.
C. The Project Area
1.24          With its population of 105,000, Liepaja is Latvia's third largest city. It is surrounded by
recreational beaches and has a naval base (a former Soviet submarine base), commercial port, and a
fishing harbor. Two thousand hectares of the town are taken up by the former Soviet military base.
Several industrial enterprises are situated in Liepaja, including food processors, metalworks, and one
brewery.
1.25          The coastal waters outside Liepaja, as well as Lake Liepaja and the City Channel
connecting the lake with the Baltic Sea, are severely polluted and contaminated by insufficiently treated
and untreated sewage water discharges. The lake and the channel are also polluted with heavy metals.
This situation is of particular concern to the MOE and municipal authorities, who have ambitions to
develop tourism in Liepaja, which is well-endowed with natural areas, wildlife, scenic landscapes,
beaches and cultural attractions.



- 6 -
1.26          In their efforts to restructure the economy of Liepaja and comply with national
environmental standards and Latvia's international commitments, the GOL and the municipal government
are seeking to enhance water quality to improve the environmental conditions of the city and recreational
beaches. In addition, there is a sincere interest to develop and implement an effective program for
management of the coastal zone and adjoining wetlands for a successful long-term development of tourism
in the area.
1.27          Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise (LWWE). The Liepaja Water and Wastewater
Enterprise serves a population of 85,000 and associated industry. Water and wastewater services in the
"military zone," an area formerly occupied by the Soviet military, were recently handed over to LWWE.
Incorporating this extensive area into LWWE's system would be a major challenge, as little is known
about the network except that it is probably in far worse shape than LWWE's existing systems. In
addition, wastewater produced in the former military base, both domestic and industrial, is discharged
directly into the former military harbor.
1.28          LWWE has characteristics common to many water and wastewater utilities in Central and
Eastern Europe. It has a small core staff of committed managers who are seeking to change their utility
to make it function better, gain greater access to resources for investment and raise employee salaries.
In working with the MOE, Bank and consultants, LWWE has demonstrated a willingness to examine new
approaches to management, develop a balanced investment program and to place increased priority on
operation and maintenance issues. LWWE also recognized the need to raise tariffs and improve tariff
collection if service and system performance are to be improved.
1.29          Nonetheless, the enterprise is understaffed at the managerial level, since it is not able to
attract qualified labor due to wage limits, while lower level staff are excessive in number. However,
given the problems of staffing, chronic underfunding, and the deteriorated state of many of the assets,
the routine operational performance of the water and wastewater system is surprisingly good and is a
strong indicator of the commitment of the utility to provide services under current constraints. The
financial resources needed to bring Liepaja's water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment systems
up to normally acceptable standards of service and efficiency are substantial, as are a number of key
investments to stop the continued deterioration of key elements of the system.
1.30          Water Supply  and Levels of Service. Water supply  services  in  Liepaja  are
currentlyrelatively good, safe and generally available without interruption. However, the main supply line
to the part of the city close to the lake and the distribution network are reported to be in critical
condition. Failure of the main supply line has thus far been avoided by frequent repairs. The reported
25-30 percent distribution leakage may be low, and needs to be confirmed.
1.31          The water supply, which serves approximately 90 percent of the population of Liepaja,
is based on groundwater extraction. In addition there are a number of "private" water supply systems
serving the former Soviet military area and several industrial sites. Water consumption in Liepaja appears
to be surprisingly low even by Western standards, even though low tariffs and the virtual absence of
consumption metering (there are only 500 meters in the system, dedicated to larger individual users)
traditionally do not stimulate water conservation. Major areas of concern are: (a) leakage and inefficient
hydraulic performance of the pipe network, (b) lack of metering; and (c) lack of disinfection of drinking
water which can be polluted by infiltration from sewage into distribution pipes.



- 7 -
1.32          Sanitation Facilities and Levels of Service. The city's sewerage system consists of about
177 km of sewers with 10 pumping stations serving 90 percent of the city's inhabitants. Approximately
60 percent of the wastewater is discharged via a sewer system to a treatment works and then to the sea
outfall; the rest is discharged untreated directly into the military harbor, Lake Liepaja or through the City
Channel into the Baltic Sea. This includes dornestic, industrial, and surface water run-off. Of a total of
46 industries, 23 are connected to the treatment plant via the sewer. The remaining industries discharge
directly into the Lake or Channel. An additional ten industries are connected to other sewers, which
discharge untreated wastewater to the Lake and Channel. Total average wastewater produced in Liepaja
in 1993 was 55,000 m3/day (including 28,000 m3/day infiltration) of which 13,000 m3 are discharged
untreated directly to the Baltic Sea. In addition, about 11,000 m3/day of clean industrial wastewater,
mainly cooling water, are discharged to the Baltic Sea through various outlets.
1.33          The sewerage pipe system dates to the turn of the century and has seriously deteriorated
in some areas. Sulfide corrosion of pipes is reportedly responsible for large scale system collapse in some
areas. Infiltration is a serious concern and is estimated at about 28,000 m3/day. There have been three
major collapses in the past three years during which the streets were widely flooded with untreated
sewage and water supplies had to be cut off due to contamination risks. In each case, sewer lengths of
50 to 120 m had to be replaced on an emergency basis at high cost and significant disruption of the city,
all of which resulted in serious health and social concerns over the reliability and safety of the system.
In the last fifteen months, there were twenty less serious collapses requiring short length repairs of the
system. An estimated 12 km out of the total of 177 km are in urgent need of replacement.
1.34          The rising main pipe from the final pumping station to the treatment plant is in a
precarious state as well and requires significant improvement to remain operational. On occasion, the final
pumping station has failed completely, causing the city's sewage to be pumped via a temporary pipe into
an area of wetland close to the final pumping station. The treatment works, which were designed for a
flow of 32,000 m3 per day, or about 60 percent of total municipal wastewater including infiltration, are
in very poor condition, and there is concern that further deterioration could result in a total loss of its
operational capacity. It is also operating at the limit of its hydraulic capacity. Nevertheless, it is producing
a reasonably good quality effluent, thanks to the efforts of diligent operational staff. The major concern
is, however, that only about one third of the flow receives rudimentary mechanical treatment prior to
discharge. As a result, overall treatment results fall short of those recommended by HELCOM. The
average discharge of biological oxygen demand (BOD) is currently 4.0 ton/day and should be below 0.9
ton/day to comply with HELCOM recommendations. The sludge produced by the plant is currently
discharged into shallow lagoons without any form of treatment. The lagoons are situated near the plant.
1.35          To summarize, the principal areas of concern for the system as a whole are: (a) large
infiltration of groundwater to the sewerage system, raising the collected volume of municipal wastewater
to be treated from 28,000 to 56,000 m3 per day; (b) the direct discharge of 13,000 m3 per day of
untreated water to Lake Liepaja, the City Channel and the Military Harbor; (c) 10,000 m3 of wastewater
arriving per day to the treatment works which bypass the biological step and are discharged after only
primary treatment; and (d) the extremely poor condition of the wastewater works and the quite limited
operational time remaining unless it is rehabilitated.
1.36          Coastal Zone and Protected Areas. Liepaja is a picturesque town, endowed with long
white beaches which are approached through a large seaside park that boasts over a hundred species of
trees and shrubs. The ecological interest in the area is centered around Lake Liepaja, an ornithological



- 8 -
reserve with several rare species of plants, and the coastal zone where there are herring breeding grounds
and sand dunes. South of Liepaja is Lake Pape, a large coastal wetland which occupies much of the area
between Liepaja and the Lithuanian border. Lake Pape is a major "bottleneck" or "restricted stopping
area" on the Baltic portion of the East African-European-Arctic flyway for migratory birds and is a
critical part of a system of coastal wildlife habitats which includes the Kursiu Lagoon to the south in
Lithuania and Matsalu Bay to the north in Estonia. These areas are being addressed by a regional
program for coastal lagoon and wetland conservation being funded by the World Wide Fund for Nature
(WWF), the European Union LIFE Program, the Government of Sweden and cooperating national and
local governments. Lake Pape is under consideration for inclusion as a site of international significance
for migratory birds following Latvia's ratification of the Ramsar Convention. To the north of Liepaja,
in the Ventspils District, is Jurkalne, an area of high sand cliffs, coastal forests, undeveloped coastline
with interesting cultural and historical features.
1.37          The Liepaja, Talsi and Ventspils districts are responsible for zoning, development, and
management of their adjacent coastal area and wetlands. There is significant concern regarding the coastal
lakes, wetlands and beaches. Lake Liepaja, traditionally a recreational, sporting and aesthetic amenity of
regional importance, is already very contaminated, partly as a result of direct discharges from industries
and the LWWE, and partly as a result of the accumulation of contaminated deposits originating in the
Liepaja metallurgy works at the north end of the lake.
1.38          Tourism  and the Demand for Tourism  Facilities in the Project Area. The MOE,
Municipality of Liepaja (MOL) and other local authorities believe that there is potential for development
of tourism, particularly eco-tourism, for the national and international markets, provided there is proper
planning, marketing and appropriate infrastructure. However, they feel that coastal tourism should be
expanded in an environmentally sustainable manner.' To promote tourism on the Courland coast, it is
necessary to identify the existing infrastructure, including accommodation, and to estimate the demand
for further development. Since the local strategy is to promote small scale, environmentally sustainable
tourism, accommodation development should be directed toward small inns, bed and breakfast
accommodations and camping sites. Recreational facilities at the beaches near the city of Liepaja would
need upgrading, including tennis courts, horseback riding, bicycling, and wind surfing. In addition,
infrastructure for nature tourism in the coastal and protected areas is needed, including access roads,
parking lots, toilets, observation towers, and multi-lingual information boards.
D. Bank Environment Strategy in Latvia, Past Experience and Rationale
1.39          The Bank's environmental strategy in Latvia, consistent with the recommendations of the
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and the recently completed Public Expenditure Review, is to
support implementation of a limited number of priority environmental investments which have significant
impact and are complemented by support for institutional strengthening activities. These activities should
be consistent with the objectives and recommendations of the Environmental Action Program for Central
and Eastern Europe, the JCP and national priorities as established by MOE. The Bank strategy recognizes
the need to support: (a) preventive measures to avoid adverse environmental impacts, through the use of
policy and regulatory measures, environmental assessments, environmental planning methods and
economic instruments; and (b) curative measures to address existing problems of air, water and soil
pollution in a cost effective manner. The Bank also seeks to develop projects which can provide the basis
I      This has been confirmed by a small scale tourism study prepared with German assistance; similar conclusions were
reached by a Danish-supported study of the adjacent Klaipeda-Palanga region of Lithuania.



-9-
for the effective mobilization of resources from other international financial institutions, bilateral donors
and nongovernmental sources.
1.40          In the water and wastewater area the strategy for Central and Eastern Europe has been
integrated into the Bank's environmental programs and presented in a number of forums, including the
Workshop on Water and Wastewater Utilities held in Riga (1993) and the Resource Mobilization
Conference for the Baltic Sea Environment Program held in Gdansk (1993). The key elements of the
strategy are:
(a)    establishing strong water supply and wastewater utilities to support sustainable
investments in municipal water and wastewater treatment through the development of
autonomous self-financing municipal/regional public or private water and wastewater
utilities;
(b)    supporting least cost planning and investment selections for municipal/industrial water
supply and wastewater systems, which are properly sized and designed;
(c)    promoting water demand management to maximize investment resources and reduce
operating costs;
(d)    supporting actions for rehabilitation of existing systems, improvements in operational
efficiency, phasing and utilization of cost-effective technologies to reduce investment and
operating costs significantly; and
(e)    promoting the careful analysis of the impact of industries and taking into consideration
actions to reduce industrial water consumption and wastewater discharges.
1.41          Bank experience in the implementation of environmental management projects in Central
and Eastern Europe to date centers on the lessons learned from the US $27.3 million Environment
Management Project in Poland which is in its final year. This Project demonstrated the importance of:
(a)    establishing locally staffed project implementation units which have personnel well trained
in project supervision, financial management and competitive procurement procedures,
further supported with proper independent auditing; and
(b)    careful monitoring of the availability of local counterpart funds.
It also demonstrated the high potential of a well designed and managed project to attract donor support
for priority activities. These lessons have been considered in the design of the proposed project.
1.42          Previous regional experience in water and wastewater projects is limited; Bank experience
worldwide in the water and wastewater sector is extensive, however. Important lessons learned include:
(a)   justifying investments in municipal wastewater treatment plants within the context of a
basin-wide, least-cost strategy for improving ambient water quality, in accordance with
a phased plan for water quality improvements;



- 10 -
(b)    making investment decisions that are guided by a medium-term, prioritized least-cost
investment plan covering all of a utility's needs. The definition of this investment
program requires the preparation of comprehensive master plans and feasibility studies;
and
(c)    validating investment decisions by careful financial plans (including financial projections),
complemented by institutional strengthening action plans, to ensure that the proposed
investment program is financially viable and that the utility is prepared to assume the
responsibility for effective management of systems and facilities.
1.43          At the operational level, the strategy is to support projects that have a high demonstration
and replication value at the national and regional level. The investment components should focus on the
rehabilitation of critical infrastructure and/or support well justified and phased expansion of facilities at
priority locations. In this context the Bank has included, at the request of MOE, a series of environmental
management activities which would be demonstrated in Project areas with the specific objective of their
being replicated elsewhere in Latvia in the future. This Project is complementary to the Municipal
Services Development Project now under preparation, which aims to strengthen local governments and
support the development of municipal services in the context of Latvia's decentralization and
intergovernmental fiscal reform programs.
1.44          The support of the Bank for the proposed Project would provide an opportunity to support
Latvian efforts to improve national environmental quality, protect the Baltic Sea and demonstrate
environmental management techniques. In the absence of Bank involvement, it is unlikely that the country
would be able to mobilize the technical assistance and financial resources required to implement an
environmental project for this environmentally and economically important area of the country. The
Project would provide a mechanism for the Bank to test the feasibility of the rapid preparation and
implementation of small projects for priority environmental investment activities in the FSU. It would
also expand the range of Bank experience in supporting the planning and implementation of eco-tourism
related management activities and investments in coFstal zone and protected areas, which is a rapidly
growing type of activity given the increased emphasis on "environmentally sustainable development."



II. THIE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1           In 1974, the countries of the Baltic Sea region signed the "Convention on the Protection
of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area" in Helsinki. This convention, commonly referred to
as the Helsinki Convention, was the first international regional seas agreement and created a framework
for regional environmental cooperation. To accelerate the rate of progress in improving national and
regional environmental conditions, the Prime Ministers of Sweden and Poland jointly hosted the "Baltic
Sea Environment Conference" held in September 1990 in Ronneby, Sweden with participation at the
Prime Minister level. The conference included senior level participqtion by the Bank and resulted in the
establishment of the Baltic Sea Environment Task Force, comprised of representatives of the riparian
states of the Baltic Sea drainage basin, European Commission and international financial institutions, with
selected technical organizations and nongovernmental organizations participating as observers. The task
force, working under the coordination of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission
(HELCOM), based in Helsinki, and with significant participation from the Bank, prepared the JCP. This
program, which was adopted by the Ministers of Environment of the Baltic Sea region in April 1992,
identified a series of priority actions concerning policies and legislation, actions for the control of point
and non-point source pollution, measures for the management of coastal lagoons and wetlands,
institutional strengthening and human resources development which should be undertaken as elements of
a long-term regional environmental program.
2.2           The city of Liepaja was ranked by the Task Force as a priority "hot spot" and
subsequently by Latvian authorities as their first priority for national and foreign investment in
environmental protection. This position has been repeatedly taken by the GOL in a variety of international
forums, most recently by the MOE at the May 1994 Bank-sponsored "Public Investment Conference" held
in Paris. The Task Force also identified the need to undertake actions for coastal zone management and
the conservation of coastal lagoons and wetlands as key elements of the long-term program. Conducting
such activities in the Liepaja region has been strongly supported by the MOE, given its interest in
promoting the political and economic reintegration of Liepaja into Latvia and in recognition of the high
ecological and recreational values of the area.
2.3           The proposed Project would be the first internationally supported investment project for
improvement of environmental quality undertaken by the GOL. This Project is considered the highest
priority in terms of domestic environmental investments actions by the GOL and in the context of Latvian
legal obligations to protect the Baltic Sea. It supports the GOL's objectives to: promote the
decentralization of responsibility for environmental services to municipal governments; reduce the State's
role in the economy by strengthening local authorities; and to restructure and modernize the water and
wastewater sector. In addition, the GOL has committed itself to take all measures necessary to re-integrate
Liepaja and its region into the Latvian national fabric after more than 40 years as a closed military city
under Soviet occupation ringed by countryside full of high security installations, and to develop a
diversified economy in the region to replace the former "military economy."
2.4           On the basis of a series of visits made to various priority sites in Latvia by Bank staff,
during preparation of the JCP and CEM, the environmental significance of the Liepaja region in a
national and regional context was confirmed, the general feasibility of a project reviewed and the
commitment of the national and local governments to undertake the proposed Project assessed. In the
context of GOL and Bank discussions concerning follow-up to the CEM, the GOL assigned the Latvian



- 12 -
Environmental Protection Committee, later succeeded by the MOE, to serve as the lead agency for
coordination of the proposed Project. The Projects Department of the Committee was given specific
responsibility for supporting project development at the national level and the MOL at the local level.
With Bank support, terms of reference for the required feasibility, engineering and environmental studies
were prepared. The GOL subsequently obtained funding for preparation of the feasibility study for water
and wastewater improvements in Liepaja from the Latvian national environmental element of the EU
PHARE Program. Following a competitive procurement process, international consultants were retained
to conduct the study. Concurrently, personnel from MOE, local governments and the WWF, with support
of regionally based Bank environment staff, identified and reviewed potential environmental management
activities.
2.5           Preparation of the proposed Project included an identification mission in September 1993,
a pre-appraisal mission in April 1994 and an appraisal mission in June 1994. In between, a number of
preparatory field visits were made by Bank headquarters and regional staff to review specific issues and
to participate in the steering committee meetings for oversight of the feasibility study. These missions and
visits have also included the participation of representatives of the Swedish Ministry of Environment,
Finnish Ministry of Environment, Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO) and the WWF.
Currently, technical specification and draft bidding documents for goods and works contracts are under
preparation, so that bidding should be able to commence on a timely basis. It is anticipated that a number
of contracts would he ready for award by the time of the Loan signing.
2.6           An implementation schedule and performance indicators consisting of a Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and an Action Plan for the WWIC were prepared during appraisal and agreed
upon with the Borrower during negotiations. The PIP appears as Annex 1, and the Action Plan as Annex
2 to this appraisal report. This chapter, therefore, provides only a summary description of the Project
objectives, components, costs, financing, implementation arrangements, procurement, disbursement,
environmental aspects and supervision. A detailed description of each of these elements, including the
performance indicators can be found in the PIP. The Action Plan was finalized by LWWE prior to
negotations. The Action Plan states the LWWE's operational, organizational and financial goals in the
short- and medium-term. The Action Plan also includes proposed additional steps for achievieng the
Project objectives and enabling efficient project implementation of the WWIC. During negotiations, the
Borrowver and the LWWE agreed that the project would be carried out according to an inmplemlenitation
schedule and performance indicators agreed with the Bank.
B. Project Objectives
2.7           ProjectObjectives. The Project, the first internationally financed environmental investment
Project in Latvia, would have the following main objectives:
*      reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea;
*      restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality in Liepaja, the northern portion
of Lake Liepaja, the City Channel and adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea;
*      improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services in
Liepaja;



- 13 -
*     improve the operational efficiency and management system of the LWWE; and
*     promote environmentally sustainable management and development of the coastal zone,
tourism and protected areas in and around Liepaja and Ventspils.
C. Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities
2.8          The GOL would provide US $3.50 million equivalent and the MOL would provide US
$1.75 million equivalent for financing of Project activities. The following organizations are participating
in a number a different forms under the umbrella of this proposed Project:
(a)    Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO). NEFCO, a special environmental
investment organization funded with support from the Nordic Countries, is providing a
loan of US $2.0 million equivalent to support the proposed Project. This loan will be
provided under terms which are generally similar to those of the World Bank;
(b)    The Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support (BITS). The Government of
Sweden, acting through BITS, is providing a grant of SEK 50.0 million (approximately
US $6.5 million equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and
treatment elements of the proposed Project. This funding is being provided in the context
of Swedish support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program according to a ratified
parliamentary decision;
(c)    Ministry of Environment of Finland. The Government of Finland, acting through the
Ministry of Environment, is providing a grant of up to FIM 12.0 million (approximately
US $2.0 million equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and
treatment elements of the proposed Project. This funding is being provided in the context
of Finnish support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(d)    Ministry of Environment of Denmark. The Government of Denmark, acting through the
Ministry of Environment, is providing a grant of US $500,000 equivalent to support the
World Wide Fund for Nature of Denmark (WWF - Denmark) to undertake the joint
Latvian and WWF implementation of environmental management activities at Lake Pape
and Jurkalne. This funding is being provided in the context of Danish Support for the
Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(e)    European Union PHARE Program. The EU PHARE Program has supported preparation
of the proposed Project through provision of ECU 400,000 (approximately US $480,000)
from the environmental element of its Latvian national program for preparation of the
feasibility study for improvement of water and wastewater services in Liepaja. In
addition, it would support activities in Liepaja equal to approximately ECU 100,000
(approximately US $120,000) under the "Leakage Detection and Control in Water Supply
and Wastewater Systems in the Three Baltic States" component of the Baltic Sea
Environment Program element of the EU PHARE regional program;



- 14 -
(f)    World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). WWF activities are being supported under the EU
LIFE and Government of Sweden funded program for development of management plans
for coastal lagoons and wetlands in the Baltic Sea; this program has activities in Estonia,
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia; and
(g)    Other Potential Donors. The GOL and the Bank are currently consulting with the
European Union, Government of the Netherlands and other selected bilateral donors and
private foundations concerning possible additional funding for both components of the
proposed Project.
D. Project Components and Description
2.9          Project Description. The proposed Project would be developed as a regional
environmental management project. The Project has two complementary components:
(a)    Waterand WastewaterImprovementComponent (WWIC- US $19.67million). This would
include:
*     rehabilitation and expansion of the Liepaja water and wastewater system,
including equipment and works, engineering services, measures to reduce water
demand and actions to control industrial discharges; and
*     training to support institutional strengthening to assist in establishing an
autonomous and financially independent water and wastewater utility in Liepaja.
This would include twinning arrangements that incorporate consultancy and
advisory services, training, equipment and software (Annex 5 presents the terms-
of reference for the twinning arrangement);
(b)    Environmental Management Component (US $1.5 million). This would include:
*     technical and financial support for the development and implementation of a
management plan for adjacent coastal and protected areas, including equipment
and small scale works, consultancy and advisory services; and
support for the development of a management plan for recreational and nature-
based tourism in the Liepaja region, including equipment and small scale works,
consultancy and advisory services.
Details of the components are provided in Annex I (the PIP).



- 15 -
E. Cost Estimates
2.10              The total cost of the Project is estimated  to be US $21.17 million or approximately
Ls. 12.0 million equivalent, including contingencies. The estimated cost distributed among project
components is summarized in Table 2.1 below and shown in greater detail in Annex 1, Tables la and
lb.
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT*
- In Lat Million** ------   ------ In US$ Million ------    %        % of
Local   Foreign Total       Local   Foreign Total       Foreign  Base Cost
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Project Implementation Unit                         0.13      0.21     0.34     0.23      0.37      0.60      62%        4%
Water Supply and Distribution                       0.24      0.78     1.02     0.42      1.37      1.79      77%       12%
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment                   1.60      4.94     6.54      2.81     8.67     11.48      76%       77%
Contract Coordination/ Supervision                  0.15      0.17     0.32      0.27     0.30      0.57      53%        4%
Technical Assistance & Training                     0.04      0.25     0.29      0.07     0.44      0.51      86%        3%
Base Cost for Water& Wastewater Component    2.17      6.36     8.52      3.80    11.15     14.95      75%      100%
B. Enviromrental Management Component***            0.11      0.74     0.85     0.20      1.30      1.50      87%
Physical Contingencies                              0.22     0.63      0.85     0.38      1.11      1.49
Price Contingencies                                 1.46     0.38      1.84     2.57      0.66      3.23
Total for Water & Wastewater Component              3.85      7.36    11.21      6.75    12.92     19.67      66%
Total for Environmental Management Component        0.11      0.74     0.86     0.20      1.30      1.50      87%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:          3.96      8.10    12.06      6.95    14.22     21.17      67%
Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up
Exchange rate US $l = Ls. 0.57
Local contributions for this component would include land and services in kind.
The total amnount would be established after conpletion and review by GOIt
of managemcnt plans to be prepared under this component.
2.11                   The cost for the WWIC is estimated at about US $19.67 million or approximately
Ls. 11.21 million equivalent, including contingencies. The total base cost is estimated at
US $14.95 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at US $1.49 million. Price contingencies between
appraisal conducted in June 1994 and March 2000 would amount to approximately US $3.23 million or
19 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent 32 percent of the base
cost. These figures provide generous contingency factors and have been adapted for use in the Project
given the limited experience with construction cost estimates and prices in Latvia. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at approximately US $12.92 million including contingencies, or about 66 percent
of total component cost. Taxes and duties are estimated at 0.5-1.0 percent on imported equipment.
2.12              The cost for the EMC  is estimated  at about US $1.5  million or Ls. 0.86 million
equivalent.



- 16 -
F. Project Financing Arrangements
2.13          The proposed IBRD and NEFCO loans, totalling US $6.0 million would finance about
28 percent of total Project costs. The Bank loan would be repaid by the GOL over 17 years including 5
years grace with repayments calculated on an annuity basis at the Bank's standard variable rate of interest.
An advance of US $300,000 has been requested from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and would
be used to support the establishment of the PIU, preparation of bidding documents and to conduct a tariff
study. The terms of the NEFCO loan are similar to those of the Bank. Additionally, NEFCO loans
require Nordic participation in the form of a twinning arrangement with the LWWE and a corporatization
plan, which was included in the Action Plan.
2.14          WWIC. Parallel grant cofinancing by the Governments of Sweden (US $6.5 million
equivalent) and Finland (US $2.0 million equivalent) and the European Union (US $120,000 equivalent)
comprises about 44 percent of component costs. A local counterpart contribution of Ls. 2.0 million or
US $3.5 million equivalent would be provided by the GOL and Ls. 1.0 million or US $1.75 million
equivalent would be provided by the MOL. The Project has been collaboratively designed with the direct
participation of representatives of the Governments of Finland and Sweden and NEFCO. Extensive
discussions have been held concerning the respective responsibilities of the cofinancers in implementation
of the Project. Satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan from
NEFCO and grants from Sweden and Finland have been fulfilled would have to be submitted prior to the
effectiveness of the Bank Loan. The MOE and the MOL advised that they would annually identify their
counterpart contribution in their annual budgets to be presented to the Bank.
2.15          EMC. This component would be financed mainly through grants. The proposed IBRD
loan would finance US $200,000 for procurement of works, goods and services for smaller infrastructure
improvements. Grant financing will be provided by the Government of Denmark (US $500,000
equivalent), and is under discussion with the Netherlands and other donors.
2.16          The summarized financing plan presented in Table 2.2 includes the proceeds of the Bank
loan, the GOL's contribution and cofinancing. More detailed financing plans can be found in Tables 2
and 3 of Annex 1.
Table 2.2: SUMMARIZED FINANCING PLAN
A. WWIC                      B. EMC
US $ Million                US $ Million
Local Foreign  Total        Local Foreign  Total
Financiers
IBRD (loan)                               0.52   3.28   3.80          0.20           0.20
NEFCO (loan)                              0.86   1.14   2.00
BITS, Sweden (grant)                      0.12   6.38   6.50
Ministry of Environment, Finland (grant)         2.00   2.00
Ministry of Environment, Denmark (grant)                                      0.50   0.50
EU PHARE Program (grant)                         0.12   0.12
Other Donors (grants)                                                         0.80   0.80
Government of Latvia                      3.50          3.50
Municipality of Liepaja                   1.75          1.75
Total                                     6.75  12.92  19.67           0.20   1.30   1.50



- 17 -
2.17                       Onlending Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance would provide the funds
directly to LWWE on behalf of the MOL. As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loani, subsidiary
loan agreements would have to have been executed between the GOL atnd LWWE.
G. Procurement
2.18         During negotiations, it ivas agreed that procuremetnt wouldfollowt the Baik 's "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits " (1992) and "Use of Consiultantts bv World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981). Procurement under parallel cofinancing
arrangements (approximately US $10.60 million) would be carried out through tied procurement in
accordance with procurement regulations of NEFCO, Finland and Sweden. Procurement would be
undertaken in the following manner:
(a)    All Bank funded contracts which are estimated to cost more than US $250,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
The Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and Erect
Contracts. Five contracts totalling US $3.79 million for: (i) water main; (ii) water
conservation; (iii) sewer reconstruction; (iv) water rehabilitation; and (v) laboratory
equipment, would be awarded under ICB. Such contracts would include all goods and
civil works necessary for component implementation ("Supply and Erect Contracts").
Packages procured through ICB would account for approximately 59 percent of the total
value of the Bank financed procurement of the Bank's loan. Invitations for bids would
be grouped in sizeable bid packages to enhance competition and benefit from economies
of scale in bid prices;
(b)    Procedures for International Shopping (IS - about US$ 0.37 million) and Local
Shopping (LS - about US$0.20 million) would be used for procurement of smaller
contracts up to US $250,000 and US $50,000, respectively, because the cost of ICB
would clearly outweigh possible price advantages. It is expected that some small
components such as chlorination equipment and office equipment could be procured
through IS. LS procedures would be used for procurement of goods for small
infrastructure improvements for the EMC (such as upgrading of access roads,
establishment of parking facilities, a sluice gate, information signs and observation
towers). Contracts awarded under IS procedures would be based on comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from three eligible countries in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts awarded under LS procedures would be
based on comparing price quotations from at least three local suppliers; and
(c)    Consultant services would be requested for three contracts: (i) the implementation
surveys for water supply (US $240,000); (ii) contract coordination and supervision of the
WWIC (US $840,000); and (iii) consultant support for the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) (US $730,000) would be shortlisted and selected on a competitive basis according
to Bank Guidelines (August 1981), and hiring would be on terms and conditicns
acceptable to the Bank.



- 18 -
Table 2.3 gives a summary presentation of procurement arrangements. A detailed presentation of all
procurement arrangements can be found in Tables 4 and 5 in Annex 1.
Table 2.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total
ICB            Other          N.B.F.           Cost
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Water Supply System                    1.71           0.26 *                           1.97
(1.17)          (0.20)                          (1.37)
Sewerage                              2.08                            13.09           15.17
(1.49)                                          (1.49)
Project Implementation Unit                           0.84 **                         0.84
(0.41)                         (0.41)
Other Consultant Services                              1.08 ***       0.61             1.69
(0.53)                          (0.53)
B. Environmental Management
Component
Small Civil Works and Equipment                       0.20 ****        1.30           1.50
(0.20)                         (0.20)
Total                                 3.79            2.38           15.00           21.17
The Bank                              (2.66)          (1.34)                          (4.00)
( = loan financed
N.B.F. = Not Bank Financed
* International Shopping  US $0.26 million
5* International Shopping -US $0.11 million + US $0.73 million according to Bank Consultant Guidelines (August 1981)
*  US $1.08 million according to Bank Consultant Guidelines
**** Local shopping - US $0.20 million.
2.19       Informal introductory training was provided during the appraisal mission by the Bank's
Procurement Specialist for representatives of the MOE, MOL and LWWE. In addition, relevant personnel
from the Projects Department within MOE and the PIU have participated in more extensive procurement
training courses organized by the Bank in Latvia. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry
out the Bank's procurement procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training and the use of
standard bidding documents. Provision of international technical assistance for the PIU should ensure
adequate administration of procurement.



- 19 -
2.20         Procurement Review. All ICB procurement packages would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. All prior review items would cover 80 percent of the total amount of the loan. Other loan-
funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post review during the supervision of the project, in
accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
2.21         Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded for: (i)
prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly reports
to the Bank by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.
H. Disbursements
2.22         The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five fiscal years (1995-
2000) with an estimated closing date on March 31, 2000. Annual disbursements are presented in Table
2.4. Descriptions of the Bank loan proceeds and forecasts of expenditure and disbursements for the
proposed Project are shown in Annex 1, Table 6. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 1,
Table 7.
Table 2.4: DISBURSEMENT BY YEAR
US$ million
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Bank Fiscal Year
Annal                                         1.86   7.09   6.12   4.46   1.30   0.34
Cumulative                                    1.86   8.95  15.07  19.53  20.83  21.17
Cumulative % Total                            8.79  42.28  71.19  92.25  98.39 100.00
2.23         The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    For goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)    For works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures; and
(c)    100 percent of expenditures for consultancy services and training.
All cofinancers would manage their own disbursements.
2.24         Disbursement requests would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PIU on behalf
of the MOE. It is expected that the members of the PIU as well as the Projects Department would
participate in disbursement training organized by the Bank.



- 20 -
2.25         Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by external audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $100,000 equivalent, where statements
of expenditure would be used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be submitted
provided they are for amounts equivalent to at least US $50,000. The Bank would not honor direct
payment requests below US $50,000.
2.26         To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $200,000, representing
about four months of average expenditures. At the request of the Borrower, and based on project needs,
the Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account up to the amount of the
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly
or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment would follow the standard procedure. In addition, monthly bank
statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests. The termns and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special
Accounit *twere set forthl during tnegotiations.
1. Environmental Aspects
2.27         Preparation of the proposed Project has included environmental studies consistent with
the applicable procedures of the GOL and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01,
"Environmental Assessment." In accordance with these procedures the consultant has prepared an
environmental review, complying with the requirements for a category "B" project for the WWIC.
Implementation of the WWIC would improve water quality through reduction of wastewater leakage into
the groundwater and reductions in discharges of untreated and partially treated wastewater, thereby
improving the water quality and ecological conditions in the City Channel, northern portion of Lake
Liepaja and the adjoining area of the Baltic Sea. The findings of the review, which have been used to
support the design of the component, are summarized in Annex 4. Attached as Annex 5 is the Bank's
Environmental Data Sheet.
2.28         The environmental management component has also been placed in category "B." The
EMC would result in: (a) environmentally sound development of coastal and recreational areas in the
Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi regions; (b) enhanced management and improved public access for protected
areas, and (c) demonstration of planning and implementation methods for regional coastal zone and
tourism development programs. Environmental reviews will be prepared as elements of the studies and
plans to ensure that their objectives and small-scale works are environmentally acceptable. These
environmental reviews would be subject to evaluation and approval by the MOE, the concerned Regional
Environmental Protection Committees and Bank environmental specialists assigned to the Regional
Mission. Given the types of environmental and protected areas management activities to be supported,
it is not anticipated that any involuntary resettlement would occur.



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1          Project Coordination. The lead agency for the proposed Project would be the MOE which
would provide overall supervision of the Project, coordinate the actions of funding organizations and local
implementing agencies and manage the interactions with the Bank. The MOE has appointed the Projects
Department to serve as the coordinator for implementation. The Director of the Department has taken
an active role in coordination and technical aspects related to preparation of the Project.
3.2           Project Steering Committee. To facilitate implementation of the proposed Project, the
MOE has:  (a) established a Project Steering Committee chaired by the Director of the Projects
Department; and (b) appointed a Project Coordinator for the proposed Project. The committee has
representatives of key departments from within MOE, Liepaja and Ventspils Regional Environmental
Protection Conmnittees, MOL, LWWE, Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi District Governments, and
representatives of local government authorities where environmental management activities would be
undertaken. A representative from the World Bank Office in Riga would serve as an ex-officio member
for purposes of coordination. The role of the Project Coordinator would be to represent the MOE in
dealings with the cooperating funding agencies, facilitate coordination between national and local
government authorities in Latvia, provide specialized technical support and serve as the secretary for the
project implementation committee.
3.3          WWIC. The LWWE would be responsible for implementation of the water and wastewater
improvement component. To facilitate implementation of this component, including institutional
strengthening, a Latvian staffed PIU would be established within LWWE. The PIU would be assisted,
as required, by international consultants to support the preparation of technical specifications, bidding
documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision of civil works and equipment
installation and follow-up activities. An advance has been requested from the PPF to enable the initiation
of the activities of the PIU. The appointment of all appropriate staff for the PIU would be a condition
for Loan effectiveness. Although the PIU is already operating with local staff, it is expected that the PIU
become fully operationally effective in January 1995.
3.4           EMC. This component would be managed by the Environment Department of the MOE
with the participation of the Tourism Department, Regional Environmental Protection Committees,
District and Parish Governments and the World Wide Fund for Nature. Each of the four small-scale
activities under the component would have its own management structure in order to allow for a flexible
approach to implementation of these demonstration activities. During negotiations, it was advised by the
MOE, that they would formalize their cooperation with the WWF. The appointment of all appropriate
stafffor the implementation of the component would be a condition for Loan effectiveness.
3.5          Project implementation would be expected to begin in April 1995 and would be carried
out over a five-year period. The Project implementation schedule is included in Annex 1, Table 8. A
summary of implementation responsibilities for the proposed Project is provided in Annex 1, Chart 2.
B. Project Implementation Agencies
3.6          Ministry of Environment and Regional Development. The MOE is the successor
organization to the Latvian Environmental Protection Committee. The ministry has a diverse range of



- 22 -
responsibilities including environmental protection, natural resources management, parks and protected
areas management, physical planning and tourism. The Minister of Environment and Regional
Development is supported by a State Minister for Environment who has responsibility for environmental
protection and the management of natural resources and protected areas. The MOE has adopted a
decentralized approach to environmental management and has an established network of Regional
Environmental Protection Committees, including one in Liepaja and Ventspils, which provide local level
support for the implementation of its policies and programs.
3.7           A Projects Department has been established within the MOE which is responsible for the
preparation and supervision of all major locally and internationally funded projects. This unit has been
directly involved in the preparation of the proposed Project, including the review and approval of terms
of reference, selection and supervision of consultants and review of their studies. The MOE also has an
Ecological Expertise Board (Environmental Assessment) which has participated in the preparation and
evaluation of the environmental review for the proposed Project. While the Projects Department has
developed significant skill in the management of technical assistance activities, the proposed Project would
be the first internationally funded investment project to be prepared by the MOE. Based on previous Bank
experience in working with the MOE and Projects Department in the context of the Baltic Sea
Environment Program and on Project preparation to date, it is anticipated that the staff would be capable
of successfully supporting supervision of the proposed Project.
3.8          Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise. The MOE has appointed the LWWE to
undertake implementation of the WWIC of the proposed Project. This approach is fully consistent with
the policy of the MOE to support the decentralization of environmental management responsibilities to
local municipalities and to have those parties which would be responsible for operation and maintenance
of facilities take an active role in their design and construction.
3.9          The LWWE is set up in accordance with the Law on Municipal Enterprises (1991) which
makes clear that the enterprise is subject to the City Council of Liepaja which is ultimately responsible
for the actions of LWWE. In this context, the municipal authorities in Liepaja are ultimately responsible
for the provision of water and wastewater services to the residents and have established a municipal
enterprise to fulfill this responsibility. The powers and duties of the enterprise are set out in a municipal
statute. The statute's main provisions are that the utility is an independent legal entity, required to provide
water and sewerage services to the population of Liepaja according to the national standards. The utility
should have a long term plan for the development of the services in Liepaja and maintain and renew the
infrastructure accordingly, although this has yet to be done. The utility has its own bank accounts and
its managers have authority to make a number of financial decisions. Tariffs are to be agreed with the
City Council, but if the tariffs set would result in a financial loss, the municipality must fund the deficit
from its general budget.
3.10         Although the MOL is responsible for water and wastewater services, LWWE has a
relatively high level of autonomy in the management of the company, including the right to hire and fire
employees and to reward performance with bonuses. The current director is eager to improve the
performance of his company although management is dominated by technical/engineering concerns.
Management practices in other spheres (planning, accounting, customer services etc.) are rudimentary
at best. Except for printing water use bills on a computer, all other systems of the company are recorded
manually. Rate setting is the prerogative of the municipal government which attempts to strike a balance
between the political concerns of affordability and the financial needs of the company. Traditionally, all



- 23 -
major investment decisions were planned, financed, and carried out with little direct involvement of the
company. LWWE has not prepared a formal strategic plan, capital expenditure or formal budget since
1992. However, there appears to be a consensus among the City Council that LWWE should become an
independent utility regulated by the local government. This would include the authority to select, plan
and implement its own investment decisions. The timetable for establishing the LWWE as an independent
entity operating under the oversight of the MOL (the City Council) was discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations.
3.11         The LWWE employs 220 staff, of which approximately two thirds work on the sewerage
side. The Director has a staff of 14 at his headquarters, of whom 5 carry out financial accounting
functions, under the auspices of the Chief Bookkeeper. Fourteen staff are employed full time at the
wastewater treatment plant. The utility has 2.2 employees per 1,000 customers. It lacks suitable qualified
staff for senior posts as it cannot offer sufficient remuneration. An implicit ceiling for economic rewards
to staff, the salary of the Director, is determined by the City Board.
3.12         Other Implementing Agencies. Implementation of the EMC would be managed and
implemented by the Environment Department of the MOE which has had experience in the preparation
of a wide variety of technical studies and management plans by joint Latvian and international teams. The
activity concerning tourism development would be overseen by the recently established Tourism
Department whose personnel may require some training in study management to adequately supervise this
activity. The WWF - Denmark working in cooperation with its International and Baltic Regional
Programs would participate in the implementation of the protected areas management activities for Lake
Pape and Jurkalne. WWF has a Latvian staffed office in Riga which has successfully prepared a Nature
Conservation Strategy for Latvia as well as undertaken a number of field based activities. Concerned local
level environmental, infrastructure, planning and tourism organizations have a limited number of skilled
personnel; however, with proper design and supervision of the proposed activities, they should be able
to have a significant role in implementation and benefit from component supported training activities.
C. Project Supervision
3.13         The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and
the Regional Mission for the Baltic Countries. In addition, technical specialists from the Swedish Ministry
of Environment and Finnish Ministry of Environment would also participate in supervision missions.
Personnel from NEFCO and WWF would also participate in selected missions. The proposed supervision
plan is summarized in Annex 1, Chart 3.
3.14         Recognizing that the proposed Project would be the first Bank project in Latvia involving
large scale construction of civil works and installation of sophisticated mechanical and electrical
equipment, it is anticipated that it would require significant supervision. This supervision would focus
on the first two years when considerable input would be required for engineering and procurement aspects
of the water and wastewater improvement component. In addition, supervision by environmental
specialists would be required for the complex issues of preparation and initial implementation of activities
under the environmental management component.
3.15         A mid-term review would be conducted to evaluate project progress and assess the status
of actions to be undertaken to establish an autonomous utility, to develop and implement an amended



- 24 -
tariff structure and to strengthen the management capacity of LWWE. The loan agreement would include
provisions which allow the Bank, in consultation with the Borrower to make adjustments in the details
of these items and the schedule for their implementation. It is anticipated that the findings of the tariff
study would be reviewed during the mid-term review and that long-term tariff rates would be then agreed
upon.
3.16          At the request of the MOE, it is planned that Project supported training activities would
be open to personnel from other locations in Latvia to support the dissemination of knowledge and to
prepare them for participation in other priority projects proposed for implementation in the short and
medium-term. In this regard special emphasis would be given to providing support for training of Latvian
personnel in competitive procurement procedures for consultant services, construction contracts and
equipment. Benefits would also accrue through training in construction supervision to improve the quality
of civil works and equipment installation, thus avoiding many types of operational problems. Given the
importance of these activities to the Project and the valuable "lessons learned" they may provide, Bank
supervision missions would review activities and progress in these areas on a routine basis.
D. Accounts and Audits
3.17          It was agreed during negotiations that the ProjectAccounts and the Special Account would
be audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982).
3.18          The Project Coordinator, with the support of the PIU and coordinators for activities under
the EMC, would prepare semi-annual descriptive and financial reports on each project component,
objective and activity (beginning from the date of Loan Effectiveness). To monitor the financial
performance of LWWE, its financial statements (income statements, balance sheets), in addition to Project
accounts, an auditor acceptable to the Bank would be appointed, and the audit reports would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit reports would contain a separate
opinion on compliance by implementing agencies with all financial covenants under the Bank loan. It is
expected that a local branch of a private, international, commercial auditor, in association with a local
auditing firm if available, would carry out the audits, and this arrangement is considered acceptable.
During negotiations, it was agreed that periodical reporting and preparation of the Project Completion
Report be carried out according to Bank Guidelines.
3.19          To gauge progress during the implementation of the Project, a series of project monitoring
indicators have been identified during appraisal. These criteria would form the basis of the evolving
sector dialogue and give signals as to whether the Bank should remain actively engaged in the sector.
These project indicators are discussed in Section IV of Annex 1.



IV. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF
LIEPAJA WATER AND WASTEWATER ENTERPRISE
A. Past Performance and Present Position
4. 1          Overview. The LWWE has been identified by the MOE as being among the more
progressive and technically capable water and wastewater utilities in Latvia. It is the intention of the MOE
to have Liepaja serve as a "model utility" for secondary cities and provide: (a) an example of a sound
water and wastewater utility which may be applied elsewhere; and (b) a facility which could be used for
in-country training on "software" and "hardware" issues. To this end, despite the administrative, financial
and technical constraints which may exist, the MOE, in cooperation with the MOL, intends to focus its
efforts on making LWWE an autonomous and effective utility by mobilizing local and foreign resources
to support complementary investment and institutional strengthening activities. However, the LWWE
advised that they shall seek prior approval to any change in the management or the execution of the
operation and maintenance aspects of water and wastewater services
4.2           Central to the approach of institutional strengthening is the development of a formal
"twinning arrangement," on a contractual basis, with another water and wastewater utility. This twinning
arrangement would include specific activities, which would be defined as a component of the Action Plan
for LWWE, to include support for: utility management; system investment planning; rehabilitation
program design; construction supervision; operation and maintenance; monitoring and use of laboratory
data; tariff setting; billing and collection; accounting and auditing; human resources development and
public information programs.
4.3           Past Performance. Analysis of LWWE financial statements3 for the years 1991 -1993
shows that revenue was adequate to cover cash charges, but the accounts lacked proper charges for non-
cash items; these include: provision for planned maintenance, provision for bad and doubtful debts (which
are considerable), proper asset depreciation reflecting replacement costs and provision for future
investment needs. Because proper non-cash charges were not reflected in the formal accounts, there were
no deficits reported during 1991-1993 and therefore no subsidy was required on the part of the
Municipality during these years.
4.4           To date LWWE has not received external financing for capital investments, consequently
no long term external debt exists. Most of the short term debt, reflected largely in accounts payable, is
money owed for electricity supply. The financial viability of LWWE is seriously impaired by current poor
budgeting practices which have indirectly induced relatively low tariff levels. Previous unrealistic debt
collection capability have deprived LWWE of cash to properly run its day-to-day operations and
maintenance. Consequently, LWWE is under considerable financial strain and is in debt to a number of
creditors. The budget is prepared on the assumption of 100% revenue collection on a current basis. On
the basis of budgets thus constructed, the City Council determines the tariff rates and tax liability. The
enterprise's financial position is further aggravated by (a) the fact that it depends on the local public
housing enterprise to collect its charges; (b) the failure to levy a charge for emptying cess pits; and (c)
the fact that it does not receive a portion of the environmental fees and fines for the collection and
treatment of highly polluted wastewater. LWWE's past financial performance is shown in Table 9,
Annex 1.
3      The first external audit of the accounts is underway for 1993.



- 26 -
B. Tariff Levels and Revenues
4.5            Water tariffs are currently inadequate to cover full costs, particularly the non-cash items
discussed in paragraph 4.3 above. Additionally, the structure of the tariffs does not include standing
charges (connection fees) nor incremental charges for higher levels of consumption. All tariffs are either
of a simple volumetric form or, as is the case for industrial discharges, of a weighted volumetric form.
Industrial customers are metered, but most domestic customers are not. Wastewater tariffs are generally
applied on the basis of consumed (metered or estimated) water, rather than accurate sewerage metering.
The only exceptions are those for large industrial customers which use considerable volumes of water in
the production process, for which a revised "return rate" is agreed, or for those who possess their own
water supply, in which case the private supply is metered and a "reduced" charge calculated. In the
institutional strengthening component, assistance for tariff planning and financial operations would be
provided. The tariff structure would be reviewed in accordance with the Action Plan in order to
incorporate flat charges and a progressive tariff scale.
4.6            No provision has been made for bad or doubtful debts in the operating accounts nor
interest charges for late receipts when determining tariff increases. Proper provisions for these debts
would justify higher tariffs, allowing LWWE to make proper accounting provisions. In practice, the
Liepaja City Council has been reluctant to raise tariffs as high as the LWWE would like, given the
political pressure to keep utility prices low. On the other hand, if the municipality suppresses tariffs
below the level at which costs would be recovered, it would, in theory, be obliged to finance the deficit.
However, no deficit-funding has been made as the subsequent years' tariffs have been based on budgeted
costs without taking into account the previous year's losses.
4.7            Despite several tariff increases in 1991,1992, and 1993 (1993 reflected tax increases
only), tariffs have not keep pace with the high (and erratic) periods of inflation and thus have failed to
adjust properly to real cost increases. In March 1994, the GOL agreed to a 50 percent combined tariff
increase for water and wastewater of approximately 2 santimi per unit charged (effective April 1, 1994
for industry and July 1, 1994 for domestic consumers); the combined residential tariff currently stands
at the level of Ls. 0.11 or US $0.19 equivalent.
4.8            The GOL has imposed financial constraints on LWWE's operational revenue by requiring
25 percent of its wastewater revenues be passed on to the state (reflected on operating expenses in Table
1). However, LWWE has full operational and financial responsibility for handling the discharges.
Additionally, penalty charges collected for excess wastewater discharges are directly passed on to the
National and Regional Environmental Protection Funds, although LWWE also has the responsibility for
handling these excess discharges.
C. Billing and Collection
4.9            LWWE billing is computerized; consumers are divided into: (a) residential customers;
(b) budget customers (including schools, hospitals, offices and shops); and (c) industrial customers. At
present, industrial customers pay the highest tariffs and residential customers the lowest. This reflects a
deliberate policy of cross subsidy to residential customers. However, it is now the LWWE's intention that
tariffs should converge.



- 27 -
4.10          Collection is a major problem  for LWWE. Accounts receivable have increased
dramatically since 1991, from traditionally 0.1 percent, to 24 percent of total receivables in 1994,
representing approximately three months of income. Collection from institutional and industrial consumers
is handled by the utility. For domestic consumers, collection is carried out by the Housing Enterprise;
in this case it is clear that collection is hampered by LWWE's lack of direct contact with its customers
as well as lack of individual metering. Approximately 80 percent of Liepaja's housing is municipal stock,
of which approximately 90 percent are in "blocks" of flats of five or more stories, none of which is
currently metered. The water bill is attributed to each building according to estimated consumption of the
building and, in the case of apartment buildings, divided among households. The billing is then carried
out on a monthly basis, and added to household charges for rent and other utilities. Many residents do
not pay their block enterprises which, in turn, are unable to pay their bill to the LWWE.
4.11          While LWWE has made arrangements to follow up outstanding debts of its major metered
industrial customers, it has no corresponding procedures for initiating action with individual domestic
customers. Although LWWE has the right to disconnect customers for non-payment, it cannot isolate
individual customers in a block and is therefore unable to implement the main deterrent at its disposal.
It is understood that residents who do not pay their rent to the block enterprise are rarely evicted, so there
are reported to be a large number of customers who are able to pay but refuse, as well as a large number
of customers who cannot pay. It is hoped that the planned privatization of the "block enterprises" would
enable the LWWE to reduce the level of non-payment from these customers.
4.12          Other means to improve collections include: (a) administrative measures; (b) technical
measures; (c) legal measures; and (d) well targeted programs to create social pressure on parties to pay
their tariffs. Administrative measures include discounts on bills paid promptly and penalties for late bills.
In addition, housing directors' salaries could be linked to the amount of revenue collected. Technical
measures include installing block meters. Legal measures include monthly deduction from defaulters'
earnings, which has been tried before with success, although discontinued due to political pressure. It
should be reconsidered with provisions included to protect low income families and retirees. These and
other measures will be discussed further at negotiations.
D. Accounting Policies and Audits
4.13          Prior to the collapse of the FSU, Latvian companies were integrated into the command
system of five-year plans; financial statements were prepared largely to facilitate this process. Currently,
the western accrual accounting system is replacing the former Soviet cash basis accounting, and LWWE
has revalued its assets in accordance with the new requirements. However, historical statements are not
readily comparable with present financial performance, and despite a major asset revaluation in
December, 1992 and tariff increases, proper charges are not made against revenue for depreciation. This
emphasizes the need in periods of high or erratic inflation for regular adjustments to tariff and asset
values to ensure proper funding for asset replacement. Additionally, a more comprehensive asset
revaluation should be carried out in the next three years in order to provide an acceptable estimate of
LWWE's assets based on current replacement costs and an assessment of their physical condition in order
to make proper provisions in light of inflation. Given that a proper asset revaluation is an expensive
exercise, warranted only with an intent to privatize LWWE's assets, immediate asset revaluation is not
required; LWWE's priorities are to sustain a positive and adequate cash flow. An interim and less
expensive solution to establishing proper depreciation charges is for LWWE, with legal authority, to



- 28 -
revalue its assets based on a limited (and less costly) physical inventory to assess replacement value and
thus adjusting, as necessary, the past inflation indexed revaluation approach.
4.14         To facilitate improved control of LWWE's finances, the project proposes to implement
automated accounting systems linked to various Management Information System (MIS) components
including billing, general accounts, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and all other major accounting
functions. Additionally, the proposed MIS system would be linked with both operational budget planning
and a strategic planning system. An automated fixed asset portion would provide all pertinent information
on depreciation and easily readable means of handling revaluations as the economy experiences inflation.
It is understood that the implementation of an MIS system has to be phased over time due to investment
requirements, not only in terms of hardware and software but also with regard to human expertise.
Phasing should thus begin with the highest priorities in managing and controlling the accounts.
E. Future Financial Performance
4.15          Projections of LWWE's financial performance assume that LWWE would introduce
substantial water and sewerage tariff increases as presented below in Table 4.1. These proposed tariffs
would allow LWWE to be financially self-sustaining by 1997, assuming these tariffs are maintained at
appropriate levels and increased regularly. LWWE's profit margin (before tax) should improve from an
estimated 1 percent in 1994 to 16 percent in 1997; and the operating ratio (operating cost, depreciation,
interest expense divided by revenue) from 91 percent in 1994 to 67 percent in 1997. LWWE is expected
to maintain or improve these performnance levels from 1997 onwards. During negotiations, the LWWE
commited itself to preparing a tariff study by January 1, 1996. It is expected that long-term tariff rates
would be agreed upon during the mid-term review, after completion of the tariff study. An advance has
been requested from the PPF to enable the initiation of the tariff study. The Borrower and the LWWE
agreed that the LWWE would produce total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its; (i) total
operating expenses; (ii) debt service requirements; (iii) provisions for maintenance and bad and doubtful
debts; and (iv) asset depreciation reflecting replacement costs.
Table 4.1 - Expected Tariff Increases
Water Supply                       Sewerage
Domestic    Instit.     Ind.      Domestic    Instit.     Ind.
Annual Real
Increases (pa)
1995         16%         4%         0%         30%         17%        11%
1996         14%         5%         0%         31%         13%        5%
1997         11%         1%         0%         30%         6%         7%



- 29 -
4.16           In preparing the projections, the financial objective was to achieve a profit margin of at
least 15 percent (before payment of profit tax) by 1997 in real terms. This objective was prescribed by
the Liepaja City Council in order to sustain the financial performance of LWWE and avoid the risk of
municipal subsidies.
4.17   The projections show that the water and sewerage operations will be financially sustaining,
provided: (a) the revenue projections are fulfilled; (b) water and sewerage tariffs are periodically adjusted
to maintain the objective of full debt service cost recovery; (c) accounts receivable are brought under
control (from 3 months outstanding of payments due to 2 months); (d) adequate levels of sustained
maintenance are provided; and (e) the reorganization, training and technical assistance proposals are
implemented to promote operating efficiency and cost reductions. The projections show that with the
prescribed tariff increases presented above, the utility generates sufficient funds to cover the debt service
obligations (it exceeds 2.0 from year 1994 through 2003). Financial projections for the water supply and
sewerage system are presented in Table 11, Annex 1. Detailed financial projections, the underlying
assumptions and notes on tariff adjustments can be found in Appendix 2 of Annex 1.
F. Tariff Affordability
4.18           Current combined tariffs correspond to Ls. 0.11/md  for domestic customers, which
represents approximately 2.3 percent of the monthly income of an average income family. Given an
estimated real tariff increase of 149 percent and real income growth, water services tariffs would
correspond to an average of 3.10 percent of the average household income.4 This is higher than today's
level, but within the range of acceptability by Bank standards.5
4.19           It should be noted that households in Latvia often have a number of non-cash benefits and
undeclared income that are not reflected in the income level used in our affordability calculations. It can
also be noted that the combined tariff levels in Riga are about US $0.15/13, which is about 35 percent
higher than the current rate for Liepaja, corresponding to approximately 5.5 percent of an average
household income. Assumptions underlying the affordability estimates are presented in Annex 6.
G. Financial Rate of Return
4.20           The viability of the project is driven by a selected tariff level that will allow Liepaja to
generate a cash flow sufficient enough to generate at least a 15 percent profit margin by 1997 (see
paragraph 4.15), to service debt and to provide proper provisions for planned maintenance, bad and
doubtful debts, replacement cost depreciation and future investment needs. The project is not consequently
driven by a financial rate of return (FRR). Nonetheless, cash flow generation must be sufficient enough
to generate a FRR that exceeds the average weighted cost of capital to LWWE.
4      This tariff level then sets total revenue potential, and from this the serviceable debt level is derived.
5      Three percent of average household income or five percent of the average income of the thirtieth percentile of total
income distribution.



- 30 -
4.21           The FRR was calculated by the incremental costs and benefit streams to the capital
investment. The tangible, financial benefits comprise the higher tariff levels justified by the capital
expenditure program as well as the operations and maintenance cost efficiencies (reductions) established
with the investment program. The proposed investment on the water supply and sewerage systems of
Liepaja has a combined FRR of 13.7 percent which indicates that the project is financially viable6. The
individual FRRs are 23.5 percent for the water supply component (which accounts for 13 percent of the
capital investment) and 11.6 percent for the sewerage component (87 percent of the capital investment).
4.22           Sensitivity test of +/- 10% for the water supply component, range from resulting FRR's
of 18.0 percent to 26.2 percent and indicate that investment is unlikely to be adversely affected by
normal-range variations in costs and revenues. For the wastewater component, the resulting FRRs are
lower at 8.9 percent to 13.3 percent which indicate the need for tight cost control and rigorous
enforcement of regular tariff increases in line with the main financial projections. The results of the
sensitivity tests are summarized in Table 12, Annex 1.
6      These rates well exceed 2.9 percent, the weighted cost of borrowing to the utility, reflecting the 71 percent grant
element in the project investment.



V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5. 1          Supply Improvenment and Environmental Enhancement. The WWIC of the proposed Project
would provide benefits to the residents of Liepaja and its surrounding region by improving water and
wastewater services and strengthening environmental management capacities. These benefits would
include improvements to maintain a high quality and more reliable drinking water supply, reduced
wastewater discharges to the Baltic Sea, reduced wastewater pollution of groundwater and the surface
waters of the northern portion of Lake Liepaja, the City Channel and adjacent Baltic beaches. This would
reduce health risks and frequency of beach closures, improve aesthetic conditions and increase
recreational and tourism opportunities in the area.
5.2           The proposed Project would also support the commitments of the GOL, as a party to the
Helsinki Convention, to fulfill the recommendations of the JCP by reducing land-based pollution of the
Baltic Sea from a priority "hot spot" and taking action to effectively manage its coastal zone and coastal
wetlands. The measures included in the Project would reduce the current BOD emissions from 3.96
ton/day to 1.67 ton/day. The hydraulic capacity in the completed wastewater treatment plant would also
accommodate treatment of remaining discharges of municipal wastewater not included in the Project.
5.3          Employment Impact and Human Skills Improvement. The proposed Project would also
provide for direct short-term employment benefits for Latvian technical experts, skilled workers and
laborers during the construction period for improvements to be supported under the Project. It is expected
that organizational restructuring, technical assistance and investment would strengthen LWWE's
managerial efficiency, financial viability, service quality and capacity to plan and implement investments.
This should eventually result in cost containment and well structured tariffs. Moreover, the concept of
managerial accountability would be introduced to local industrial and domestic consumers. Consumers
would potentially benefit from the efficiency gains generated by the restructuring process in terms of
better water and wastewater services. At the technical level, the proposed component would provide
opportunities for Latvian experts to gain direct practical experience in the design, construction, operation
and maintenance of the modern water and wastewater system.
5.4           Financial Efficiency. The proposed Project would support the transformation of the
LWWE into an autonomous water and wastewater utility. This would facilitate meeting the long-term
water and wastewater service needs of Liepaja more cost effectively. A major benefit would come from
institutional strengthening and human resources development activities, undertaken through both "twinning
arrangements" and "hands-on" experience in developing new skills required for administrative, financial,
technical and environmental aspects of water and wastewater utility operation. Implementation of the
proposed Project would also provide for real cost data for investment activities in the water and
wastewater area which would be of significant importance in development of reliable cost-estimates for
other proposed projects to be implemented in the post-Soviet period in Latvia.
5.5           The combined internal financial rate of return of the water and wastewater component of
the Project is 13.7 percent, using the projected tariff and corresponding revenue as a best proxy of the
benefits attributable to the incremental investments.
5.6          Demonstration Activities. The EMC would support a series of demonstration activities to
prevent future adverse environmental impacts through coastal zone management and tourism development



- 32 -
planning. It would also support the planning and development of protected areas at Lake Pape and
Jurkalne so they could be more effectively accessed and enjoyed by Latvian and foreign visitors. The
MOE expects that the coastal zone management and tourism development planning activities would
provide a critical base of local experience and allow for training of Latvian experts in order for this type
of work to be conducted in other areas of the country. In the case of the planning and implementation
actions for protected areas, it is anticipated by the MOE and local authorities that these would provide
demonstrations which could be replicated in other areas of the Courland coast and extend to priority
conservation areas on the Gulf of Riga.
5.7          In addition, the Lake Pape case study of the economic evaluation of protected areas which
is planned to be cooperatively prepared by the MOE, WWF and the Bank would provide important
information concerning the economic importance of providing proper management and access to these
areas. This study would review both direct and indirect revenues from local and international tourism and
assess their benefit to the local economy; it would also assess measures which could be taken to access
a portion of the receipts to finance environmental management activities.
5.8          Community Participation. The community participation emphasis in the environmental
management component would provide local governmental, nongovernmental organizations and individual
citizens the opportunity to directly participate in environmental protection and natural resources
management activities. These actions, especially the management 'plans for Lake Pape and Jurkalne,
would be prepared and implemented with input from locally based community organizations and seek to
provide local residents an opportunity to directly benefit economically from these interventions. The
proposed activities would serve to better take into account community natural values for the aesthetic and
economic interests of the local community. The local community is to be integrated into decision making
processes through the introduction of integrated coastal zone (ICZM) management and the pilot projects
would serve as models of how to balance nature conservation with sustainable economic development
(eco-tourism, reed harvesting, fishing etc.).
5.9           Replication of EMC Activities. The activities supported by the EMC would provide both
governmental and nongovernmental organizations with an important learning experience which could be
replicated elsewhere in Latvia and the Baltic region. In addition to the strictly local environmental
benefits, the Project would have regional benefits for the Baltic Sea and would benefit global biodiversity
through the conservation of some of the least spoiled areas of the eastern Baltic Sea coastline and support
the protection of critical habitat for native and migratory bird species.
B. Project Risks
5.10         Slippage. The proposed Project faces a number of political and technical risks due to the
fact that it is the initial project of this type in Latvia. With regard to the WW7C, there is a risk that the
Project implementation could be delayed due to the limited experience of the MOE and the LWWE in
these types of activities. There is also a risk that, given the very limited experience with actual costs for
implementation of water and wastewater improvements in post-Soviet Latvia, the volatility of local price
changes, and previous lack of construction activities to international standards in this sector, construction
costs may be underestimated. In order to minimize these risks, the Project provides for significant
supervision by staff from Bank headquarters and the regional office, establishment of a PIU, and the
adoption of conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with the use of appropriate physical and
price contingencies.



- 33 -
5.11          On the basis of previous Bank experience in Eastern Europe, there is also a risk that the
GOL and cooperating local governments may have problems with the timely provision of local currency
support and that the availability of adequately qualified personnel for Project management positions may
be constrained by government imposed limits on salaries paid to civil servants. It should be noted,
however, that these constraints were overcome by the Borrower and the Bank being closely engaged in
Project supervision and quickly taking actions to address these types of implementation problems as they
occurred.
5.12          Institutional and Financial. On the institutional and financial side the main risks concern:
(a) the political commitment of the Liepaja City Council to support the transformation of LWWE into an
independently managed water and wastewater utility; (b) political or macro-economic factors which may
interfere with the commitment of the Liepaja City Council to authorize the LWWE to raise tariffs
sufficiently to cover the repayment of the Bank loan; and (c) continued problems with the capacity of
LWWE to effectively collect water bills.
5.13          These risks would be reduced by carefully monitoring the requirements for tariff increases
and providing significant institutional development support to the utility to improve its financial
management, billing and collection practices. The acceptability and the ability of maintaining high and
increasing tariff levels should also be considered. Provisions to ensure that the authorities promptly take
the necessary actions to increase tariffs and improve efficiency are included in the Action Plan and the
Project Implementation Plan of the impelementation schedule. It is expected that the Action Plan, with
a plan for tariff increases, would be formally endorsed by the City Council, to ensure that the necessary
tariff increases would be realized.
5.14          Technology. The technology of the proposed Project is standard and involves no unusual
risks. The main risk is the utility's financial and institutional capability to carry out the proposed Project,
as it would require substantial strengthening of its ability to carry out an investment program in general.
Experience with other municipal water and wastewater authorities in transitional economies demonstrates
that close Project supervision and adequate technical assistance mitigate these risks.
5.15          Environmental Management Component Risks. The principal risks for the EMC of the
Project concern: (a) difficulties in coordination of activities between various national, local,
nongovernmental and consultant organizations; (b) resistance from local authorities and residents to
proposed land use control measures to be included in the ICZM, tourism development and protected areas
management plans; and (c) unanticipated problems associated with the complex issues of restitution of
lands confiscated by the State during the Soviet period to their pre-1940 owners.
5.16          Coordination issues can be effectively addressed by the establishment of implementation
teams for each of the activities with the support of the Project Coordinator and various Activity
Coordinators, complemented by close Bank supervision. Resistance to implementation due to land use
constraints and conflicts with pre-1940 land owners can only be addressed by having the direct
participation of these parties, as proposed, in the planning and implementation of these activities. It
should be noted that the demonstration activities by their very nature are intended to test the application
of these approaches in the Latvian context and to provide lessons which can be transferred elsewhere
within the country and the Baltic Sea region.



- 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1          The following agreements were reached during Loan negotiations:
(a)   It was agreed that the Project would be carried out according to an implementation
schedule and performance indicators agreed with the Bank. This schedule consists of the
PIP and the Action Plan for the WWIC (para 2.6);
(b)    The terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account for
the Project were set forth; (para. 2.26); and
(c)    The Borrower and the LWWE agreed to produce total revenues equivalent to not leass
than the sum of LWWE"s; (i) total operating expenses; (ii) debt service requirements;
(iii) provisions for maintenance and bad and doubtful debts; and (iv) asset depreciation
reflecting replacement costs (para 4.15); and
(d)    The LWWE committed itself to preparing a tariff study by January 1, 1996 and that
following completion of the tariff study, long-term tariff rates would be adjusted
according to an agreed timetable (para 4.15).
6.2          In addition, agreements on the following standard Bank requirements were obtained from
the Borrower, the MOE, the MOL and the LWWE:
a)    The use of the World Bank's Guidelines on procurement and use of consultants (para.
2.18);
(b)    Annual audits of financial accounts and Special Accounts, and financial reporting to the
Bank (para. 3.17); and
(c)    Periodical reporting and preparation of a Project Completion Report according to Bank
Guidelines (para. 3.18).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
6.3          Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a)    Submission of satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the loan from NEFCO and grants from Sweden and Finland have been fulfilled (para.
2.14);
(b)    Subsidiary loan agreements had been executed between the GOL and the LWWE (para.
2.17); and



- 35 -
(c)    The LWWE would have appointed all personnel, including international consultants for
the PIU and that the MOE would have appointed all personnel for the implementation of
the EMC (paras. 3.3 and 3.4).
C. Recommendation
6.4          With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US $4.0 million equivalent at the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17
years, including five years grace period. The Borrower would be the Republic of Latvia.






ANNEXES 1-6
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT






Annex 1.    Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2.    Action Plan
Annex 3.    Terms of Reference
3A.Twinning Arrangement
3B.Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
Annex 4.    Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -
Environmental Aspects
Annex 5.    Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6.    Review of Affordability






Annex 1
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN






PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Table of Contents
I.     THE PROJECT
A.     Introduction ............................................. 1
B.     Project Scope and Objectives ..........           ......................... 1
C.     Project Description .    ......................................... 1
D.     Project Costs ............................................. 8
E.   Financing Plan ............................................ 12
II.  IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.     Organizations Responsible for the Project
and Interagency Coordination  ................................ 14
B.     Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies ....             ........... 15
C.     Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies ......................... 16
D.     Role of the World Bank during Supervision  ........................ 19
III.    IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A.  Time-Bound Schedule ................................... 21
B.     Procurement Arrangements and Schedule ...........             ............... 21
C.  Disbursements . .................................. 25
D.     Finance  ..................................  29
E.     Project Risks .................................. 36
F.     Loan Covenants for Implementation . ............................. 37
IV.  MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.     Actions to Monitor Development Objectives .......            ................. 38
B. Project Indicators .38
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart 1:       Project Overview
Chart 2:       Project Implementation Responsibilities
Chart 3:       Supervision Plan



LIST OF TABLES
Table la:           Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table lb:           Water and Wastewater Improvement Component: Detailed Presentation of
Project Costs, Procurement and Financing
Table 2:            Financing Plan by Year
Table 3:            Financing Plan by Financer
Table 4:            Procurement Arrangements
Table 5:            Summary of Procurement Packages
Table 6:            Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 7:            Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 8:            Implementation Schedule - Component A
Table 9:            LWWE's Financial Performance
Table 10:           Tariff Increases
Table 11:           LWWE Projected Financial Performance
Table 12:           Financial Rates of Return
LIST OF APPENDICES
Appendix 1          Milestones in Project Implementation
Appendix 2          Financial Projections and Notes on Tariff Adjustments



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
1.            This Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared during appraisal and was agreed
with the Borrower in accordance with procedures set out in the OP/BP/GB 10.00.' The complete project
design is presented as an overview in Chart 1.
B. Project Scope and Objectives
2.            The Liepaja Environment Project (the Project), which would be the first internationally
funded environmental investment project in Latvia, would have the following main objectives:
*      reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea;
*      restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality in Liepaja, the northern portion
of Lake Liepaja, the City Channel, and adjacent recreational beaches on the Baltic Sea;
e      improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services in
Liepaja;
*      improve the operational efficiency and management system in the Liepaja Water and
Wastewater Enterprise (LWWE); and
--     promote environmentally sustainable management and development of the coastal zone,
tourism and protected areas in and around Liepaja and Ventspils.
C. Project Description
3.     The proposed Project will be implemented as an environrnental management project for the Baltic
coast of Latvia. The main components of the Project are:
*      rehabilitation and expansion of the Liepaja water and wastewater system, including
equipment and works, along with engineering services;
*      training to support institutional strengthening to assist in establishing an autonomous and
financially independent water and wastewater utility in Liepaja. This would include
OPR issued new procedures on September 17, 1993 requiring that an Implementation Plan be prepared and included
in the Staff Appraisal Report. These procedures will be incorporated and issued in the OP/BP/GB 10.00, 'Investnent
Lending: Identification to Board Approval."



ANNEX I
Page 2
twinning arrangements that incorporate consultancy and advisory services, training,
equipment and software;
*     technical and financial support for the development and implementation of an
environmental management plan for adjacent coastal areas and wetlands, including
equipment and works, consultancy and advisory services; and
*     support for the development of a management plan for recreational and nature-based
tourism in the Liepaja region.
4.            Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC). The component would
address the following water and wastewater system improvements in Liepaja:
*      Water Supply and Distribution
(a)    completion of the New Otanki Transmission Main to reduce leakages and
maintenance costs and to provide an acceptable level of supply security;
(b)   limited extension of the existing supply network to cover areas now supplied by
standpipes;
(c)    rehabilitation of most leaking parts of the network and introduction of water
metering to promote water conservation;
(d)    provision of chlorination and some laboratory facilities and emergency spare
parts to improve the quality of supplied water and operation efficiency; and
(e)    surveys to identify areas of heaviest leakage the water supply network;
*     Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment
(a)    reconstruction of sewers in danger of imminent collapse (estimated at 2,000
meters) and initiation of rolling program of sewer rehabilitation by relining and
reconstruction to ensure the long term operating capacity of the underground
assets;
(b)    rehabilitation of the terminal pumping station and partial reconstruction of the
terminal main to the treatment works to ensure continuous treatment of the
current and future wastewater flows;
(c)    construction of two new interceptors to convey an additional flow of 16,000 m3/d
currently discharged directly to Lake Liepaja or the City Channel to the treatment
works;
(d)    completion of the construction works currently under way at the treatment plant
and supply and installation of electro-mechanical equipment. The completed plant
will be able to treat current and increased flows to an acceptable level;
(e)    provision of emergency spare parts to improve operation efficiency; and
(f)    surveys to identify the parts of the network with the most severe leaks.



ANNEX I
Page 3
Consulting Services for
(a)   technical assistance in Project implementation for detailed design and construction
supervision of above works;
(b)   technical assistance  in  institutional development for strengthening  the
organizational arrangements through a Twinning Arrangement. The main
objective of this sub-component is to improve the LWWE's overall performance
through changes in operational and financial management in accordance with the
Action Plan. The twinning partner would support and assist LWWE in
implementing the Plan with regard to institutional strengthening and human
resources development for the first two years of the Project implementation
period. Assistance would include support for:
(i)    implementing a system rehabilitation and optimization program;
(ii)   developing and initiating implementation of a consumer interaction
program;
(iii)  implementing the proposed recording and information system; and
(iv)   supporting implementation of the leakage detection program  to be
initiated with support from the regional EU PHARE program.
5.           Total average wastewater generated in Liepaja in 1993 was 55,000 m3/d (including
infiltration of about 28,000 m3/d). An additional 11,000 m3/d of industrial cooling and other adequately
treated water were directly discharged to the Baltic Sea. Of the 55,000 m3/d, 32,000 m3/d is pumped to
the existing overloaded wastewater treatment plant, located 8 km north of Liepaja, where only about
22,000 m3/d are treated mechanically and biologically. About 10,000 m3/d is discharged directly to the
Sea outfall after the primary step. As can be seen, this results in 24,000 m3/d being discharged without
any treatment at all, severely polluting the City Channel and the northern part of Lake Liepaja before
reaching the outflow into the Baltic Sea. Total discharge of BOD from municipal wastewater is about 3.9
tons/day, of which 2.4 tons/day is discharged into the City Channel and Lake Liepaja, 0.9 tons/day from
the wastewater treatment plant to the Baltic Sea and 0.4 tons/day into the military harbor and the Baltic
Sea.
6.            The proposed Project would reduce the total BOD emission from Liepaja to 1.7 tons/day
and limit the BOD-load on the City Channel and Lake Liepaja to 0.5 tons/day. When the new wastewater
treatment plant, currently under construction, has been completed, wastewater discharges not currently
included under the Project will be able to be treated without increasing the size of the plant.
7.            Enviromnental Management Component (EMC). The Ministry of Environment and
Regional Development (MOE) and local authorities reviewed and endorsed a program of environmental
management activities to be undertaken in the Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi regions to complement the
proposed improvements in the municipal water and wastewater system. The component would include
activities to address environmental management issues in the greater Liepaja region and provide for
demonstration activities which could be considered for replication in other areas of Latvia in the future.
Given the strong interest in the demonstration aspect of the proposed component, its management would
include specialists from the headquarters of the Ministry as well as local authorities. It is anticipated that
the component would provide a structured and well managed framework for the effective use of grants



ANNEX I
Page 4
for environmental activities from the European Union, bilateral donors and a variety of private
foundations. Several of the activities proposed for inclusion under the component have been identified
by the Ministry for implementation by non-governmental organizations working in close cooperation with
local experts and residents. The component would consist of the following demonstration activities:
*     Demonstration Activity No. 1. Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan.
On the basis of Terms of Reference prepared by the MOE, an integrated coastal zone
management (ICZM) plan would be developed for the area between Kolka Point in the
north and the Latvian-Lithuanian border in the south. The study area would include the
Municipality of Liepaja, Municipality of Ventspils and Liepaja, Ventspils and Talsi
Districts. The objective of this activity would be to demonstrate the use of integrated
coastal zone management in the context of regional planning and development. The study
area was selected given the plans of the Government of Latvia (GOL) to promote
environmentally sound development in this previously "closed" area of the country
which, outside the areas previously dominated by military activities, remains undeveloped
and has high scenic ecological value and eco-tourism potential. Preparation of this study
would be coordinated closely with development of the proposed Eco-Tourism
Development Plan;
*     Demonstration Activity No. 2. Eco-Tourism Development Plan.
The MOE is responsible for the management and development of tourism in Latvia. The
Ministry plans to implement an eco-tourism development plan for the area between Kolka
Point and the Latvian-Lithuanian border which would serve as a model for other areas
of Latvia. This area currently has a low level of nature-based tourism with local and
foreign visitors visiting the area either through specialized tours organized through Riga
or traveling northward from the Klaipeda region of Lithuania. Recent years have also
shown a start in yacht based visits to the proposed study area in Pavilosta. Draft terms
of reference have been prepared for the proposed activity which would include
opportunities for the training of Latvian personnel from both the national and concerned
local governments in the preparation of this type of study. The study would incorporate
the findings and recommendations of the "farm based tourism" study prepared with the
assistance of Germany. Preparation of this study would be coordinated closely with
development of the proposed Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan;
*     Demonstration Activity No. 3. Management Plan and Program for Lake Pape.
The proposed demonstration activity would be implemented by the World Wide Fund for
Nature (WWF) in cooperation with the Parish Governments of Nica and Rucava and the
Liepaja District Government. The MOE and the Liepaja Regional Environment Protection
Committee would provide technical support as necessary. The objective of the activity
would be to develop and implement a community based, ecologically sustainable
environmental management plan for Lake Pape, a large coastal wetland which occupies
much of the area between Liepaja and the Lithuanian border. It is a major "bottleneck"
on the Baltic portion of the East African-European-Arctic flyway and is a critical part of
a system of coastal wildlife habitats which includes the Kursiu Lagoon to the south in



ANNEX I
Page 5
Lithuania and Matsalu Bay to the north in Estonia. Lake Pape is currently proposed to
be submitted for inclusion as a site of international significance for migratory birds
following Latvia's ratification of the Ramsar Convention.
The proposed activity would support development of a management plan for the Lake
Pape area, survey and posting of the protected area, development of a zoning plan for
management of important areas outside the protected zone, preparation of a hydrological
management plan, restoration of the sluice gates and other water regulation structures,
upgrading of access roads and establishment of parking facilities, posting of traffic and
multilingual information signs, development of viewing platforms and access points to
the lake, and development of an effective community participation program to assure that
the local population benefits from the local and foreign visitors to the area; and
*     Demonstration Activity No. 4. Management Plan and Program for Jurkalne.
The proposed demonstration activity would be implemented by the WWF in cooperation
with the Parish Government of Jurkalne and the Ventspils District Government. The
objective of the activity would be to develop and implement a community based,
ecologically sustainable environmental management plan for the Jurkalne sand sea cliffs
which are the highest coastal cliffs on the eastern Baltic Sea. The local commnunity has
already taken action to make the area more accessible to visitors and wishes to cooperate
with a variety of parties to develop the area into an attraction to regional visitors.
The proposed activity would support development of a management plan for the Jurkalne
area, survey and posting of the conservation management area, development of a zoning
plan for management of important areas outside the main conservation management area,
preparation of a plan for protection of the coastal forest which serves to stabilize the large
sand sea cliff complex, upgrading of access roads and establishment of parking facilities,
posting of traffic and multilingual information signs, development of additional viewing
points from the cliffs and access points to the beach, and development of an effective
community participation program to assure that the local population benefits from the
local and foreign visitors to the area.



Chart 1.                                                                 LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
in US $ millions
Local       Loan        Grant       Total                             Element                                               Benefits
Contributlon
5.25       World       Sweden:      19.67   Water:                                                       Improved reliability of main water supply to city,
Bank       6.5                  Otanki main and extension of services         1.03           reduction in demands for repairs, reduced water
3.8       Fin.and:             System rehabilitation and operational         0.50           loss in distribution system. Secured and expanded
NEFCO       1.5                 imrvmnswater distribution. Promotion of water
2.0'     EU-PHARE:2            Improvements                                                  conservation and provision of improved water
0.12                 CNorination and laboratory equipment          0.26    1.79   quality.
Wastewater:                                                  Expansion of interceptor network to reduce
N&S Interceptors                              3.25           pollution of Lake Liepaja, channel and harbor area.
Sewer reconstruction/rehabilitation and leakage              Reduction of pollution to the Baltic Sea by 980
detection program                             1.55           tons BODyr.
New terminal main (Phase I) and rehabilitation
of terminal pump station                      3.50,.
Completion of new WWTP (civil works partially
completed) and Spare Parts                    3.18  11 .48
Water and Wastewater Subtotal                        13.27
Contract coordination and supervision         0.57           Project would provide opportunity for Latvian
experts to develop new skills in project planning,
implementation and construction supervision.
Institutional Strengthening and Human                        Project would provide model training facility for
Resources Development                         0.51    1.08   secondary cities in Latvia. A twinning arrangement
would be used to strengthen institutional capacity.
Project Implementation Unit                           0.60
BASE COST                                    14.95
Physical contingencies 1 0%                   1.49           The Project would provide accurate cost data for
both physical and price contingencies for projects
implemented in Latvia and thus support financial,
Price contingencies                           3.23    4.72   economic and technical planning of similar
Iprojects in the future,
COST FOR COMPONENT A                                 19.67



Chart 1.                                                                   LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part B. Environmental Management Component
in US $ millions
Local        Loan        Grant       Total                              Element                                                Benefits
Contribution
Provision of     0.2       Denmark:       1.5    Activity No. 1: Integrated Coastal Zone       0.50            Would demonstrate use of integrated coastal zone
land,                         0.5                Management Plan                                               management in the context of regional planning and
personnel                 Discussions                                                                          development. The study area would include the
costs and                 are currently                                                                        coastal zone from Kolka Point to the Latvian-
contributions             being held                                                                           Lithuanian border. Activity would focus on training
in kind.                    with the                                                                           Latvian personnel who could conduct similar work
Government                                                                          in other areas of the country and small scale priority
of the                                                                            activities.
Netherlands
and other             Activity No. 2: Eco-Tourism Development Plan  0.50            Would examine potential opportunities and support
donors                                                                            selected priority actions to implement an eco-
concerning                                                                          tourism developmnent plan for the area between
additional                                                                          Kolka Point and the Lithuanian border. Activity
funding.                                                                           would include training of Latvian personnel in
tourism planning and implementation of small scale
activities to support eco-tourism.
Activity No. 3: Management Plan and Program                  The objective of the activity would be to develop
for Lake Pape                                 0.40           and implement a community based environmental
management plan for Lake Pape, a site of national
and regional ecological significance. The activity
would include development of a management plan
and implementation of selected improvements to
make the site more readily accessible for domestic
and foreign visitors.
Activity No. 4: Management Plan and Program                  The objective of the activity would be to develop
for Jurkalne                                  0.10           and implement a community based environmental
management plan for the Jurkalne coastal area. The
activity would include development of a
management plan and implementation of selected
improvements to make the site more readily
accessible for domestic and foreign visitors.
SUBTOTAL                                       1.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   21.17
1   The Nordic Environment Finance Corporation INEFCO) would provide a loan at near World Bank terms for US $2.0 million equivalent to support the proposed project in collaboration with the
World Bank and the Governments of Sweden and Finland. NEFCO is a special regional environmental financing organization capitalized by the Governments of the Nordic Council members.
2   PHARE would provide funding for leak detection activities from its Baltic Regional Environmental Program.



ANNEX I
Page 8
D. Project Costs
8.            The total cost of the Liepaja Environment Project is estimated at US $21.17 million or
Ls. 12.0 million equivalent, including contingencies.
9.            The cost for the Water and Wastewater Component is estimated at about US $19.67
million or approximately Ls. 11.21 million equivalent, including contingencies. The total base cost is
estimated at US $14.95 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at US $1.49 million. Price
contingencies between the appraisal in June 1994 and March 2000 would amount to approximately
US $3.23 million or 19 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent
32 percent of the base cost. The foreign exchange component is estimated at approximately US $12.92
million including contingencies, or about 70 percent of total component cost. Taxes and duties are
estimated at 0.5-1.0 percent on imported equipment.
10.           The cost for the Environmental Management Component is estimated at about US $1.5
million or Ls. 0.86 million equivalent.
11.           The estimated cost distribution among Project components is shown in Tables la and lb
below.
12.           Bases of Cost Estimates for Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. Project
costs were estimated as follows:
(a)    Base Costs. Cost estimates are based on: preliminary estimates prepared by the
consultants for the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component following review by
the Bank. Cost estimates for the Environmental Management Component have been
jointly developed by the MOE, WWF and the Bank on the basis of previous experience
with similar activities;
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen physical
variations (US $1.49 million) equivalent to 10 percent of the base. Price contingencies
on base costs and physical contingencies are estimated at about US $3.23 million,
equivalent to 19 percent of base costs and physical contingencies, and reflect Bank
estimates of local and international price increases.2 In estimating the price contingencies,
it is assumed that any differentials between domestic and international inflation rates
would be offset by appropriate adjustments in exchange rates; and
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US $12.92 million including contingencies, or 66 percent of total component costs.
2      Foreign inflation rates: 3.3% in 1995 and 2.5% thereafter; percent per year for the life of the Project. Local inflation
rates: 20 percent in FY95; 15 percent in FY96; 10 percent in FY97; 8 percent in FY98; 6 percent in FY99; 6 percent
in FY2000.



ANNEX I
Page 9
Table la: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT*
(exchange rate US $1.00 = Lat 0.57)
-- Lat Million --------        -------- US $ Million --------
Local    Foreign  Total         Local    Foreign  Total
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Project Implementation Unit                             0.13       0.21       0.34   0.23       0.37          0.60
Water Supply and Distribution
Otanki Main                                             0.14       0.38       0.52      0.25       0.67       0.92
Service Extenson                                        0.01       0 05       0.06      0.02       0.09       0.11
Water Conservation                                      0.05       0 12       0 17      0.09       0.21       0.30
Chlorination Equipment etc                              0.01       0.05       0.06      0.01       0.09       0.10
Laboratory Equipment                                    0.00       0.09       0.09                 0.16       0.16
Implementation Surveys                                  0.03       0.09       0.11      0.05       0.15       0.20
Sub Total      0.24       0.78       1.02      0.42       1.37       1.79
Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment
Sewer Reconstruction                                    0.14       0.14       0.28      0.24       0.25       0.49
Sewer Rehabilitation                                    0.22       0.33       0.55      0.38       0.58       0.96
Northern Interceptor                                    0 14       0.97       1.11      0.25       1.70       1.95
Southern Interceptor                                    0.11       0 63       0.74      0.20       1.10       1.30
Partly New Term Main (Phase I) and Rehabilitation
of Main Pumping Station                                 0.72       1.28       2.00       1.26      2.24       3.50
Leakage Detection Program                                          0.06       0.06                 0.10       0.10
Completion of Water and Wastewater Plant                0.27       1.48       1.76      0.48       2.60       3.08
Spare Parts                                                        0.06       0.06                 0.10       0.10
Sub Total      1 60       4,94      6.54       2.81       8.67      11.48
Contract Coordination / Supervision                     0 15       0 17       0.32      0.27       0.30       0.57
Technical Assistance and Training                       0.04       0 25       0.29      0.07       0.44       0.51
Base Cost for Water & Wastewater Component         2.17       6.36      8.52       3.80      11.15     14.95
Physical Contingencies                                  0.22       0.63       0.85      0.38       1.11       1.49
Price Contingencies                                      1.46      0.38       1.84      2.57       0.66       3.23
Total for Water and Wastewater Component                3.85       7.36      11.21      6.75      12.92      19.67
B. Environmental Management Component*
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan                            0.29       0.29                 0.50       0.50
and Priority Actions
Eco-Tourism Development Plan and                                   0.29       0.29                 0.50       0.50
Priority Actions
Management Program for Lake Pape/Jurkalne                          0.29       0.29                 0.50       0.50
Total for Environmental Mgmt Component                  0.11       0.74       0.86      0.20       1.30       1.50
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:              3.96       8.10     12.07       6.95      14.22     21.17
* Addaiti  may mt th fully c-orv de to rotunig upt the toco-u
frant the third dr.intl
Local contribw.ion for tha campon,pra cood ondade land, agnrenitn
on restrictiont on land -n .nd orscwes in kind The [otl faunt woad th
e5.iteNWd Ikr c-.npklton and -eaea by GOL or nanagentocn plant to he
preprted uuker -cnponrnr.



T_bl I h.                   __I__             _        WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPoNENT: DETAILE  PRESENTATION OF PROJECT COSTS. PROCUREMENT AND FINANCING
C99.o                 P      m.                r59.                                                           19         7          139                 TOTAL                              FIhANCING
F  T      L       F      T       L      F      T       L      F    T         L      F      T      L IF           T      9      08      GL,L6CFCOEON7LN                            OA
Pn,iaIIw4ase.4.UR  0071   0257   0323   0040  01W    015   00030            0      003            0039  0039            0 039    023   037   006
PbyscIComngn          t                   00     00 l                                                 O      M3 003    005    00!    002  0073 007  007O   007    003   002'  004    006
S.b TOT          t                    o0   0 2,    0      00     0              04             04                                        O 
___________             0~~~~~~~o04     00o     2      4      6
PI NC.fi     e s I                         b-07I7 30                         0           I37    27 0            8       20            6 t                              +
11                                                            0iu   003 003il                            0 03    0 04          0 04    004           004    03 050        03
TOTAL                               0       0       4     007     o        00    00'           0                                           0*     0
2 P&E.-  Comnq+eOTHERe* 3%                003    0 0F  004                                                                                              003    00     009 0 4   -      7    t
~~~~~7                                 .  _   _   _  _   _  _      -.-            -.    t'----         _       ='                                                                              _     _   _  _   _   _  _   _
96TOal.M.                       C           0 23    0674T   0                                                                                             0 23    0 74    0!l
:h-5>X C--. o
S.,          e          S    =        0     2607            _     307_20                300      270 Io7    20                       67    2                                                                         t 0
P3_                                      0 2     034   0         '                                                                                     03     0       032
TO3TAL                              0.38    073    333                                                                                            01t38    07'1 |3|33           073    098                                            333___ 0
2 . . S e foo oMso                                        O          txt t o   OODE  0 2~   0 0 0  0 3 30                                                      0 2   0 0    0 3              - ,_         _  __6_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
P6ysl C3        c0- l1                                           007    03    003 O                              r _        -  7-                        00-           003 _2___
Si hTd n                                 |  0.3.    1.0   _      002'  030 O3                                                                               002    00 0  3                             _2
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~PcC,zere USS                                                 2007  2.07            33! 070O    230       0707l    270     4     Oi230                607    260-                                                    ;         
.106  0        I                                      __ 3      00     00705200                                                                                007    00275 0 9                                                                 1
T OTAL                     'OTHER                                             03 it                                                                    00    03      0               0     007
3  1 07w, CotE a                            00    0                 0' 
tiss                                   _                                     00T 2
PnccCcrarqcmn I                   1307    207           2507     2.30    0 3    10
Pw= -Co--o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                o lio,     3    1    200
Suh T..,                                        l1061 07            0 11    0 55   0 66 00332 Ot,6I                               1      rO'    117 2I5i|
Plzyuacai Cmmnptr.es lot  - - - '   0.07   0.03   0.03   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2    03
PraCosqewe,  %                   ~~~~~~~               ~~~~070  20  37,07   207F  3107    270        873                   60     26                                                                                            _    _
030~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PRywc Cm .q -es   0%                     03      0.2    0.02
Pn ccCI cs 1q"                   OTHER                 2.0          3.0  3070             100      20             07      30           6.7060                                                                                      __    __
BASECC 10                          03             38     02      038    033                                                                       O      00
S.    acICcqen30T03                                03     03      0.01   0.04   0091           -                                                                                              ______    ___ __
PnaC~zcsmap      S                           20707    2.07          1 3307    2 07       30.07  00               0      3              .7    20__ 
us$                                            3      0      3      0.04   0.0    0.3 o___
TcjWsaC.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..a  0.40    330    333    823    043    066                ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 o 0 1
TlyciOTAL         0100                        07      0      0 03   0.32033          3    0 0032                                                     0.07   0.20   033                   _0_02
Stwk            & - ToBa                       03      3       0o3            3      4      2       0      3    _       _                                     033    28     33is_
03$      C-      -      %0.04    0.03   0.3                        08    00 33          02i 0.o -2
2 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~am  _ _ _~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~
PnoeCotmt~n. 1                   1307    207            3307    230           31107    270 0817    230                     607260
TOTAL                          -                    _           .              1
3 N 3otcrre~~~~~~~~~~~or ~030   033    063    5030   03                  0    0  003   063     07
Pbynolconqcoca   0%          003   ~~~~~~~~~0017   0074   03007   00      03     00      0
SubToWalC03                                            I o0   072603    033    062 21 0725012 023782 23



TAk lb.                          _____                    WATER AND WASTlEWATIER D.IMOVEMENT COM4PONENT: DETAILED PREFSINTATION Of PROJECT COIl, FEOCLY11tEMENT AND FINANCING
C y.P-.f                P...-.,                  90                   IWO                     1997                   IWO                    109"                  TOITAL                                FINANCING
LI.     F  IT          L       F      T       L       F       T      L1      F       T       L       F      T       L       F   IT          0      WO    GO0EUJ-h4-ISNEFCO  SWEDE  FKLAND                OTAL
m6. Co6.im     .  I                             20051  2-W0            7150    2.50           70.05    2.70 --        6.05    2.50            6.COD   160                                                                 1_        ___ __
us$0                                             0041  0.011  0.05    0.06    0.03    0 09    0.04    6000    01o0                                                   0.10    0.09    0.24
TOrrAL                                0.15    0621  0.77    0.17    03       0. O75   0.710   0.7    0.06        ___0.42    1.96    2 30 __A02                                                                                 096                  2.3
4.0S. Im   I6I0 05    0 40    045    0.10    0.60    0.70    0.05    0.70    0.70    0.30    1.10    7.30                                                                                                                                        _ _
Pby-dI Coiqo-   701                                                                        0 07    0.04    005    0.07    0.06    0.07    0.07    0.07    0.02    .02    0.77    0.73                                                    ___
S., T.W                                                                                        0 06    04      0.O~50    0.17   0.66    0.77    0.06    0.77      077    022     727    743                                          __
S~ip6                                 20.00    2.0D           13.051   2501          700      2. Z70         8.00,   2.50            605D   2.60
7us$                                                                                           0.04    0.03    0.07    0.70    0.07    0.76    005    0 07    0.07    0719   0771   0 31
TOTAL                                                                                0.70    0.47    0.57    0 27    07     0 93    0.77    0712   0.231  0.471    373    7.74                    0,41              0.52       06 a.74
Rd.b ( M.. P-p S~~                    0.37    0 47    0~78    0.06    0.551  0 97    0.48    0.10    7.06    0.77    0.34    0.45                          7 26    2.26    3.50
Pbyin.7C-Wa. - 701                          0.05    005    0 08    0.04    0 06    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.74    0 07    0.03    0.05                          0.73    0.22    0.35                                                               ___
Sd, T,.                                          0 341  0052    0 86    0.AD    0.67    7.05,   0.03    0,97    7.50    0.12   0.37    0.50                          7.3    2.46    3.835___
Ph. CCim,,i,   S                                20 05    2.05          73.0)   2.50            70.05    2.70          8.05    2.50            6.05    2.60
US0,                                            0713   O0.0    0.714   0.3    0.03    0_26   _039    0 07    0.47    0771   0 04    0714                             0.46    0.7 7s .07                                                        __    ___
TOrrAL                                0-47    0.33    7.0D   0.63  0__.63    7.26   0.921  7.04    7.96    0 23    0.471  0.661                            2.23    2.67    4.66                   2.23              0.67                  2         4.86
6.0nSR-            ,Ica                            0.26    0.23    0.491                               __                                                               0.26    0.23    0.49
fty87  CinqV.    7010                       0,02    0.03    0.05                                                                                                 0.02    0 05    0.05       I
S.___________ _____T                                    4 005    60      66W.7 .00.2                    023     70      .32.46.9               0 0.0.04    0.76    2.0    0.26   3.2                  1.      2         .224.                                  970
TOTAL_____                                  L 0.36                  .7       4      .0     0.       .0      *     4.9     L       6.4     .64 646. 02.081  7.78    0.4 0.723                                                                               06
Phy.w C-  d                                    74lo%0941   O.               3.93    0.1.6~0          03   0 01. jjI2   0.0    0.1  j0             0.02   0.p  0Ll6  74.08



ANNEX I
Page 12
E. Financing Plan
13.         The proposed Bank loan of US $4.0 million will finance about 19 percent of Project
costs. The Bank loan will be repaid by the GOL over 17 years including 5 years of grace with repayments
calculated on an annuity basis at the Bank's standard variable rate of interest.
*     Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. Grant-financing corresponds to
approximately 44 percent of total component costs. Parallel grant cofinancing would be
provided by: (a) the European Union, in the amount of ECU 100,000 (US $120,000
equivalent) for funding of leakage detection equipment and training for the LWWE under
the European Union PHARE Baltic Regional Program; (b) the Government of Finland,
acting through the Ministry of Environment, would provide up to FIM 12.0 million
(US $2.0 million equivalent) to support investments in the wastewater collection and
treatment elements of the proposed Project; and (c) the Government of Sweden, acting
through BITS, would provide up to SEK 50.0 million (US $6.5 million equivalent) to
support investments in the wastewater collection and treatment elements of the proposed
Project. The funding is being provided by Finland and Sweden in the context of their
support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program.
The Nordic Environment Finance Corporation would provide a loan of US $2.0 million
equivalent to support the proposed Project. This loan could be provided under terms
which are similar to those of the World Bank.
Local counterpart contribution of Ls. 2.0 million or US $3.5 million equivalent would
be provided by the GOL; Ls. 1.0 million or US $1.75 million equivalent would be
provided by the MOL.
An advance of US $300,000 has been requested from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) and would be used to support the establishment of the PIU, preparation of bidding
documents and to conduct a tariff study.
*     Environmental Management Component: This component would be financed mainly
through grants. The proposed IBRD loan would finance US $200,000 for procurement
of goods and services for small infrastructure improvements. Grant financing is to be
provided by the Governmnent of Denmark and is anticipated from the Netherlands and
other potential donors. The Government of Denmark acting through the Danish Ministry
of Environment, has approved a grant of US $500,000 equivalent to WWF - Derunark
to support the environmental management activities for Lake Pape and Jurkalne. The
Government of the Netherlands, acting through the Ministry of Physical Planning,
Housing and Environment, is currently considering a request from the MOE for support
for preparation of the Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) activity to be
included under the proposed Project.
14.   Tables 2 and 3 show the required financing by year and financer.



ANNEX I
Page 13
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
(US$ million)
1995    1996   1997   1998   1999  2000  Total
Bank Fiscal Year
IBRD, (loan)                          0.68   1.64   0.73   0.32   0.44   0.19   4.00
NEFCO, (loan)                         0.04   0.62   0.70   0.64                 2.00
BITS, Sweden (grant)                  0.33   2.17   2.34   1.21   0.39   0.06   6.50
Min. of Environment, Finland (grant)  0.13   0.33   0.79   0.65   0.10           2.00
Min. of Environment, Denmark (grant)  0.10   0.20   0.20                        0.50
EU PHARE Program (grant)              0.06   0.06                               0.12
Other Donors (grants)                 0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20                 0.80
Local Contribution                    0.32   1.97   1.26   1.24   0.37   0.09   5.25
Total                              1.86   7.09   6.12   4.46   1.30   0.34  21.17
i
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN BY FINANCER
(US$ million)
--- Local ---   -- Foreign --      --- Total ---
US$   %          US$   %           US$   %
Financers
IBRD, (loan)                           0.72    10%       3.28    23%      4.00    19%
NEFCO, (loan)                          0.86    12%       1.14    8%       2.00     9%
BITS, Sweden (grant)                   0.12     2%       6.38    45%      6.50    31%
Ministry of Environment, Finland (grant)                 2.00    14%      2.00     9%
Ministry of Environment, Denmark (grant)                 0.50    4%       0.50     2%
EU PHARE Program (grant)                                 0.12     1%      0.12     1%
Other donors (grants)                                    0.80     6%      0.80     4%
Government of Latvia                   3.50    50%                0%      3.50    17%
Municipality of Liepaja                1.75    25%                0%       1.75    8%
Total                               6.95   100%      14.22   100%     21.17   100%






II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organizations Responsible for the Project and Interagency Coordination
15.          Ministry of Environment and Regional Development. The MOE is the successor
organization to the Latvian Environmental Protection Committee. The ministry has a diverse range of
responsibilities including environmental protection, natural resources management, parks and protected
areas management, physical planning and tourism. The Minister of Environment and Regional
Development is supported by a State Minister for Environment who has responsibility for environmental
protection and the management of natural resources and protected areas. The MOE has adopted a
decentralized approach to environmental management and has an established network of Regional
Environmental Protection Committees, including ones in Liepaja and Ventspils, which provide local level
support for the implementation of its policies and programs.
16.          A Projects Department has been established within the MOE which is responsible for the
preparation and supervision of all major locally and internationally funded projects. This unit has been
directly involved in the preparation of the proposed Project, including the review and approval of terms
of reference, selection and supervision of consultants and review of their studies. The MOE also has an
Ecological Expertise Board which has participated in the preparation and evaluation of the environmental
review for the proposed Project. While the Projects Department has developed significant skill in the
management of technical assistance activities, the proposed Project would be the first internationally
funded investment project to be prepared by the MOE. Based on previous Bank experience in working
with the MOE and Projects Department in the context of the Baltic Sea Environment Program and on
Project preparation to date, it is anticipated that the staff would be capable of successfully supporting
supervision of the proposed Project.
17.          Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise. The MOE has appointed the Liepaja Water
and Wastewater Enterprise to undertake implementation of the Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component of the proposed project. This approach is fully consistent with the policy of the MOE to
support the decentralization of environmental management responsibilities to local municipalities and to
have those parties which would be responsible for operation and maintenance of facilities take an active
role in their design and construction.
18.          The LWWE is set up in accordance with the Law on Municipal Enterprises (1991) which
makes clear that the enterprise is subject to the City Council of Liepaja which is ultimately responsible
for the actions of LWWE. In this context, the municipal authorities in Liepaja are ultimately responsible
for the provision of water and wastewater services to the residents and have established a municipal
enterprise to fulfill this responsibility. The powers and duties of the enterprise are set out in a municipal
statute. The statute's main provisions are that the utility is an independent legal entity, required to provide
water and sewerage services to the population of Liepaja according to the national standards. The utility
should have a long term plan for the development of the services in Liepaja and maintain and renew the
infrastructure accordingly, although this has yet to be done. The utility is financially independent, and
has its own bank accounts. Tariffs are to be agreed with the City Board, but if the tariffs set would result
in a financial loss, the municipality must fund the deficit from its general budget.
19.          Other Implementing Agencies. Implementation of the Environmental Management
Component would be managed and implemented by the Environment Department of the MOE which has



ANNEX I
Page 15
had experience in the preparation of a wide variety of technical studies and management plans by joint
Latvian and international teams. The activity concerning tourism development would be overseen by the
recently established Tourism Department whose personnel may require some training in study
management to adequately supervise this activity. The WWF working through its European and Baltic
Regional Programs would participate in the implementation of the protected areas management activities
for Lake Pape and Jurkalne. WWF has a Latvian staffed office in Riga which has successfully prepared
a Nature Conservation Strategy for Latvia as well as undertaken a number of field based activities.
Concerned local level environmental, infrastructure, planning and tourism organizations have a limited
number of skilled personnel; however, with proper design and supervision of the proposed activities, they
should be able to have a significant role in implementation and benefit from component supported training
activities.
B. Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
20.          The following agreements were be reached between the Borrower and the Implementing
Agencies during negotiations:
(a)    The Borrower would identify how their counterpart contributions would be provided and
specify the procedures to be used for on-lending to the MOL on behalf of the LWWE;
(b)    The PIU for the WWIC would become fully operational in January 1995;
(c)    The MOL would continue to approve regular tariff increases sufficient to allow the
LWWE to cover water production and treatment costs, wastewater treatment and disposal
costs, operation and maintenance, depreciation, interest and make a contribution to
reserves;
(d)    The MOE would formalize its cooperation with the WWF concerning its role in
implementation of nature conservation activities under the Environmental Management
Component.
(e)    A Detailed Implementation Plan has been prepared for the WWIC and the EMC;
(f)    The LWWE is in the process of finalizing a contractual arrangement in order carry out
the planned Twinning Arrangement with a utility acceptable to the Bank; and
(g)    The MOE has appointed staff required for coordination of the EMC and facilitate the
appointment of personnel from local level government organizations.
In addition, during negotiations it was advised that:
(a)    The MOE has established a Project Steering Committee (PSC);
(b)    The MOE has appointed a Project Coordinator;



ANNEX I
Page 16
(c)    The MOL and LWWE have nominated the personnel for carrying out the Water and
Wastewater Improvement Component, including the appointment of key personnel to a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU); and
(d)    The PIU is already operational with local staff.
C. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
21.          Project Coordination. The lead agency for the proposed Project would be the MOE which
would provide overall supervision of the Project, coordinate the actions of funding organizations and local
implementing agencies and communicate with the Bank. The MOE has appointed the Projects Department
to serve as the coordinator for implementation of the proposed Project. To date this has been the
responsibility of the director of the Department, who has taken an active role in coordination and
technical aspects related to preparation of the Project.
22.          Project Steering Committee (PSC). In order to facilitate implementation of the proposed
Project, the MOE plans to: (a) establish a PSC chaired by the Director of the Projects Department; and
(b) appoint a Project Coordinator for the proposed Project. The committee would include, but not be
limited to, the following: representatives of key departments from within the Ministry, Liepaja Regional
Environmental Protection Committee, Municipality of Liepaja, LWWE, Liepaja, Talsi and Ventspils
District Governments, and representatives of local government authorities where environmental
management activities would be undertaken. A representative from the World Bank Office in Riga would
serve as an ex-officio member for purposes of coordination. The role of the Project Coordinator would
be to represent the MOE in dealings with the cooperating funding agencies, facilitate coordination
between national and local government authorities in Latvia, provide specialized technical support and
serve as the secretary for the PSC. The scheduling, planning and reporting on the meetings of the PSC
would be the responsibility of the MOE. The PSC would be expected to meet at least twice a year to
review the progress of the proposed Project.
23.          The PSC would provide overall guidance for the proposed Project and facilitate national
and local government coordination issues. It would ensure that financial resources required under the
Project are made available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner and monitor Project
expenditures and costs. The PSC would monitor the movement of official documents and contracts
through the usual approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release. It would also
monitor compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines in the acquisition of equipment and technical
assistance contracts.
24.          Project Coordinator. The project would be implemented under the general supervision
of the MOE. Management of the proposed project would be the responsibility of a Project Coordinator
(PC) who would be formally appointed by the Minister. The role of the PC would be to represent the
MOE in dealings with the cooperating funding agencies, facilitate coordination between national and local
government authorities in Latvia, provide specialized technical support and serve as the secretary for the
project implementation committee. Currently the Director of the Projects Department has been appointed
to undertake this role during the project preparation period given the significant issues related to project
funding. During the implementation phase, this individual would, be supported by a specialist with a
science or engineering background to address a wide range of technical issues associated with effective



ANNEX I
Page 17
implementation of the proposed project. Finally, together with LWWE, the PC would prepare a draft
Project Completion Report (PCR) within six months after the completion of the Project.
25.           Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. The LWWE would be responsible for
implementation of the water and wastewater improvement component. In order to effectively implement
all Project supported activities concerning water and wastewater, including institutional strengthening,
a PIU would be established within the LWWE. During negotiations, agreement was reached as to the
necessary structure, staffing, equipment, and other arrangements for the PIU. The PIU would be assisted,
as required, by international consultants to support the preparation of technical specifications, bidding
documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision of civil works and equipment
installation and follow-up activities. The PIU would be headed by a full-time Project Coordinator who
would report directly to the Director of the LWWE. In addition, the PIU should be staffed with
specialists with skills in water and wastewater treatment, environmental planning, accounting,
procurement, contract monitoring, information processing and records management. The Director of the
Enterprise would be responsible for supervision of all Project supported activities concerning water and
wastewater, including institutional strengthening, within the service area of the LWWE.
26.           Other specific responsibilities of the PIU are the following:
(a)    improve and finalize TORs, preparation of short-lists, and technical evaluation of TA
proposals received;
(b)    preparation of detailed specifications and procurement documents for approved equipment
lists, review of bid packages and evaluation of offers received;
(c)    prepare and submit disbursements applications to the Bank, NEFCO and  bilateral
donors;
(d)    monitoring of detailed procedures, implementation schedules, and program(s);
(e)    review of physical targets and preparation of revised estimates of financial resources
needed to support future actions;
(f)   liaise with the Bank and other involved agencies for Project administration and
supervision matters;
(g)    prepare and distribute consolidated periodic reports to the PSC and other participating
institutions, including the Bank, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress,
problems encountered and corrective actions needed; and (ii) current costs of each Project
component and estimated costs of completion;
(h)    ensure the timely preparation and submission to the PSC and the Bank of annual audit
reports of Project expenditure, including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and accounts;
and
(i)   together with the PC, prepare a draft Project Completion Report (PCR) within six months
after the completion of the Project.



ANNEX I
Page 18
27.           Environmental Management Component. This component would be managed by the
Environment Department of the Ministry with the participation of the Tourism Department, Regional
Environmental Protection Committees, District and Parish Governments and the World Wide Fund for
Nature. Each of the four small-scale activities under the component would have their own management
structure in order to allow for a flexible approach to implementation of these demonstration activities.
A technical specialist from the Environment Department would serve as coordinator for the integrated
coastal zone management and protected areas management activities, and a technical specialist from the
Tourism Department would serve as coordinator for the tourism development plan. Local coordinators
would be designated by the concerned District and Parish Governments for activities which would be
implemented within their jurisdictions. Finally, operating under a cooperative agreement with the MOE,
the World Wide Fund for Nature - Denmark would be responsible for implementation of activities at Lake
Pape and Jurkalne, in cooperation with the concerned District and Parish Governments.
28.           Chart 2 below shows the department responsible and implementing department for each
sub-component of the Project.
Chart 2: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Subcomponent and Activity       Responsible Department   Implementing Agency
Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component
Water and Wastewater Improvement Projects Department,   Liepaja Water and Wastewater
MOE                     Enterprise on behalf of the Municipality
of Liepaja
Twinning Arrangement            Projects Department,    Liepaja Water and Wastewater
MOE                     Enterprise
Environmental Management
Component
Integrated Coastal Zone         Environmental Protection   MOE and local governments
Management Plan                 Department, MOE
Eco-Tourism Development Plan    Tourism Department,     MOE and local governments
MOE
Management Plan and Program for   Environmental Protection   World Wide Fund for Nature and local
Lake Pape                       Department, MOE         governments
Management Plan and Program for   Environmental Protection   World Wide Fund for Nature and local
Jurkalne                        Department, MOE         governments



ANNEX I
Page 19
D. Role of the World Bank during Supervision
29.           The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank personnel from both headquarters and
the Regional Mission for the Baltic Countries. In addition, technical specialists from the Swedish Ministry
of Environment and Finnish Ministry of Environment would also participate in supervision missions.
Personnel from NEFCO and WWF would participate in selected missions. The proposed supervision plan
is summarized in Chart 3.
30.           Recognizing that the proposed project would be the first Bank Project in Latvia involving
large scale construction of civil works and installation of sophisticated mechanical and electrical
equipment, it is anticipated that it would require significant supervision. This supervision would focus
on the first two years when considerable input would be required for engineering and procurement aspects
of the water and wastewater improvement component. In addition, supervision by environmental
specialists would be required for the complex issues of preparation and initial implementation of activities
under the environmental management component. Savings would be realized by relying on staff from the
Bank Regional Mission for supervision. During the first year of implementation, training seminars will
be organized in procurement, disbursement, and accounts/audits.
31.          A mid-term review would be conducted to evaluate project progress and assess the status
of actions to be undertaken to establish an autonomous utility, to develop and implement an amended
tariff structure and to strengthen the management capacity of LWWE. The loan agreement would include
provisions which allow the Bank, in consultation with the Borrower, to make adjustments in the details
of these items and the schedule for their implementation. During the mid-term review the findings of the
tariff study would be reviewed long-term tariff rates would be agreed upon.
32.          It is planned that about 18 staff-weeks of effort for the first two years and about 15 staff-
weeks thereafter would be required for supervision. Following the start-up mission, supervision
requirements would include two supervision missions and an annual review; in later years one supervision
mission and an annual review would be conducted. The final supervision mission would be to prepare
the Project completion report. It is planned that these missions, in order to minimize costs, would be
coordinated with those required for the proposed complementary Klaipeda Environment Project in an
immediately adjacent area of Lithuania.



Ch.t 3  SUPERVISION PLAN                                                                                                                   ANLNEX.I
E.~~~  T.W ~~Page  20
M-.95   Spm.io.. I         H..            2I.           2         I         1                              6
(NPj.d- stfltp)   R    O ffi 08.____                 ___                    2          I         3
P                               BITS                                                       23
Y                               F-    M                                                    II
9                               NEFCO___
5                               WWF                                                                  I 
J1-95   S.. . 2            H.sdq-n....       26                                    ___________
E~v... nI 011k.           2_____ 
S.p-95   S.-. 3            H.sdqut.r.        2         I          I                                       4
Rq~gn..IOfi3k.                                            2          2         4
BITS                                                      2                    2
F                               F-mh ME                                                    I                   I
9   D-c95   1.1 A-,r,. Rm.v.   H~.                I ..                                                         2
6                               R.p~.na offi.                                                        2         4
BITS                                                      2                    2
F-~h MEII
NEFCO 
WWFI                                                                           I
Apr-96   S.p-.rc.. 4       H..d.-t-~                                     ___ 
BITS. Off                                                 22
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - F-- -  .h    M -E  - - - - - - --                  - - -  - -  - - -  -  - -
Sep-96   S~.Pec..o  3      H..dquar.~.       2I3
R.g,os.I Offi.                                            2          2 
F                               BIT                                                         
Y                               F-v,h MES
7   De-96   2rn1 A-ma R-,c   H..d4uec..           2         I          I         I                             35
RqV,oa.Offic.               __2                                      I         3
BIT                                                       22
F-.h ME                                                              I         I
NEFCO 
WWFI                                                                           I
Ap.-97   Sp-. 6            H..dq~..Mt.n 
R-W...oI Office         ____                              2          I         3
BITS                     __ _  _   _ _  _ _  _  _  _      2                    2
---- ---- --- ---- ---Fi.  h   M E   -- - -- -                                   I                   I
Dec-97   3,d A-cue Rec-. H..dqe.r.n          2          I         I                                        4
M,d-T.n. R.-vi  x... R.~uI Oflic.          2__       ___                  __       2__           4
F                               BIT                       I___     _  __  _I_               _
Y                               Fmmh ME                                       I__          1  ___ 
9                               NEFCO                  f    I      _     _I
8                               WWF                                           ____ 
Ap,-98   Sup v-e  7        H..dqued.r                4__ 
R.p ...I Offi                                              2         1 
BI-I'              I{
FmihME                ___"4                       t0 i
Dec-98   411, A-..]I R.-i  H..dquar.n 2...___                                              1__   3_
Y                               F,uh MEI
9                               NEFCO                       I      ___        ___ 
M.-99    S.p.mueo. S       H.adq-H-r                  ___ ______     __                                  II
D..-"9   311 A-"ue R.,~.  H1..dquefl..                                                                     3 I
R.1ona 018i.,                                              I 
Y                               F,ham.IMELI1
S                               NEFCO                                                                          I
S
May-OS    PrjcI  mpl.non Hnadq .nan           22
=      NcP.p-ti,on RqponaIO13. fi-II                                                                






III. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Time-Bound Schedule
33.          Terms of reference for the twinning arrangement have been prepared and were discussed
during negotiations. Appendix 1 of this Annex and Table 8 below show a summary of milestones in
Project preparation, implementation and monitoring activities.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
34.          Like many other Central and Eastern European countries, Latvia does not have a tradition
of competitive bidding for the procurement of public goods and services. All procuremen. during the
Soviet period was done centrally. The GOL is now in the process of preparing legislation instituting
public procurement rules and regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform its economy
from a centrally planned to a market-oriented system based on the development of a competitive private
sector. The GOL has requested the Bank to provide assistance in this area, and work is already underway.
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this stage. Since the introduction
of procurement legislation is expected to take some time, assurance for this proposed Project should be
obtained during Appraisal that the GOL would apply procurement procedures which are consistent with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD and IDA Credits" (May 1992).
35.          Procurement under parallel cofinancing arrangements (about US $10.62 million) would
be carried out through tied procurement in accordance with procurement regulations of EU PHARE,
NEFCO, Finland and Sweden. All other procurement would be undertaken in the following manner:
(a)    All Bank funded contracts which are estimated to cost more than US $250,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured following Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB). The
Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and Erect
Contracts. Five contracts totalling US $3.79 million for: (i) water main; (ii) water
conservation; (iii) sewer reconstruction; (iv) water rehabilitation; and (v) laboratory
equipment, would be awarded under ICB. Such contracts would include all goods and
civil works necessary for component implementation ("Supply and Erect Contracts").
Packages procured through ICB would account for approximately 59 percent of the total
value of the Bank financed procurement. Invitations for bids would be grouped in
sizeable bid packages to enhance competition and benefit from economies of scale in bid
prices;
(b)    Procedures for International Shopping (IS - about US$ 0.37 million) and Local
Shopping (LS - about US$ 0.20 million) would be used for procurement of smaller
contracts up to US $250,000 and US $50,000 respectively because the cost of ICB would
clearly outweigh possible price advantages. It is expected that some small components
such as chlorination equipment and office equipment could be procured through IS. LS
procedures would be used for procurement of goods for small infrastructure
improvements for the EMC (such as upgrading of access roads, establishment of parking
facilities, a sluice gate, information signs and observation towers). Contracts awarded
under IS procedures should be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from three eligible countries in accordance with Bank guidelines.



ANNEX I
Page 22
Contracts awarded under LS procedures would be based on comparing price quotations
from at least three local suppliers; and
(c)    Three contracts for consultancy services for: (i) the implementation surveys for water
supply (US $240,000); (ii) contract coordination and supervision of the water and
wastewater component (US $840,000); and (iii) consultant support for the PIU
(US $730,000) would be shortlisted and selected on a competitive basis according to
Bank Guidelines, "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as an Executing Agency" (August 1981), and hired on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
36.          Informal introductory training was provided during the appraisal mission by the Bank's
Procurement Specialist for representatives of the MOE, MOL and LWWE. In addition, relevant personnel
from the Projects Department of the MOE and the PIU participated in more extensive procurement
training courses organized by the Bank in September 1994. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower
to carry out the Bank's procurement procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training and the
use of standard bidding documents. Provision of international technical assistance for the PIU should
ensure adequate administration of procurement.
37.          Procurement Review. All ICB procurement packages would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. All prior review items would cover 80 percent of the total amount of the loan. Other loan-
funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post review during the supervision of the project, in
accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
38.          Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded for: (i)
prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly reports
to the Bank by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.
39.          A summary of procurement packages for works, equipment, and technical assistance,
indicating the schedule for tendering, the estimated cost and completion time is shown in Tables 4, 5
and 8.



ANNEX I
Page 23
Table 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Total
Project Element                                      ICH            Other                N.B.F             Cost
Water and Wastewater Improvement CoMponent
Civil Works and Lareer Equipment
Water Supply System
New Otanki Main                                     1.13                                                   1.13
(0.75)                                                (0.75)
Service Extension                                                   0.14  *                                0.14
(0. 10)                               (0. 10)
Sewerage
Sewer Reconstruction                                0.64                                                  0.64
(0.28)                                                (0.28)
Sewer Rehabilitation                                1.44                                                   1.44
(1.21)                                                (1.21)
Completion of New Wastewater                                                              3.99             3.99
Treatment Plant & Spare Parts
Northern Interceptor                                                                      2.38             2.38
Southern Interceptor                                                                      1.74             1.74
Partly New Terminal Main and                                                              4.86            4.86
Rehab. of Main Pumping Station
Smaller Equipment
Water Supply
Laboratory Equipment                                0.18                                                  0.18
(0.18)                                                (0.18)
Chlorination Equipment                                              0.12  '                               0.12
(0. 10)                               (0. 10)
Water Conservation                                  0.40                                                   0.40
(0.24)                                                (0.24)
....................................I.................................
Leakage Detection Program                                                                 0.12            0.12
.Implemen&T~taion.Unit
Project Imp!em~..n..t...o..n..u..t...........................
Office Equipment                                                    0.11                                 0.11
(0.11)                                (0.11)
Consultant Services
Water Supply
Implementation Studies                                              0.24                                  0.24
(0.17)                                (0.17)
Project Implementation Unit
International Consultant and PIU Staffing                           0.73   '                               0.73
(0.30)                                (0.30)
Training and Technical Assistance                                                         0.61             0.61
........................................................................
Contract Coordination & Supervision                                 0.84  "                                0.84
(0.36)                                (0.36)
Environmental Management Conponent
Small Civil Works and Equipment                                      0.20 '                1.30            1.50
(0.20)                                (0.20)
Total                                               3.79            2.38                 15.00           21.17
The Bank                                           (2.66)          (1.34)                                 (4.00)
(l) - bon fiOnned
N.B.F - N  B.ank Fimnced
*  tmtnaniont lShopping - US10.37 mdlion
Aeconuin g  Btnt GsndeOkiic f.o U. of C.n'( i  (Augu 1941) - us 51.81 milin
* ocal Shopping - US S0.20 million



Table 5: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
Est. Cost    Proc.        Preparation    Tender Doc        Bid         Contract       Contract
Component                                   (US  M)    Method        of Bidding Docs     Issued      Submitted       Signed       Completion
Water and WasteW2ter Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
New Otanki Main                                  1.13     ICB        Sep-94 - Dec-94    Jan-95         Feb-95        May-95         Dec-95
Service Extension                                0.14   shopping    Feb-95 - Apr-95     May-95         Jul-95        Dec-95         Dec-96
Sewer Reconstruction.                            0.64     ICB        Sep-94 - Nov-94    Dec-94         Feb-95        May-95        Dec-95
Sewer Rehabilitation                             1.44     ICB       May-95 - Sep-95     Oct-95         Dec-95        Apr-96         Sep-99
Completion of new WWTP and spare parts           3.99     N.B.F.     Sep-94 - Dec-94    Jan-95         Mar-95        Jun-95         Dec-97
North and South Interceptors                     4.12     N.B.F.     Sep-94 - Jan-95    Feb-95        May-95         Aug-95         Dec-99
Partly new Terminal Main                         4.86    N.B.F.      Oct-94 - Feb-95    Mar-95        May-95         Aug-95        Nov-98
& Rehab. of Main Pumping Station
Smaller Eqluipment
Laboratory Equipment                             0.18     ICB        Sep-94 - Nov-94    Dec-94         Feb-95        May-95         Dec-96
Chlorination Equipment                           0.12   shopping    Apr-95 - Jul-95     Aug-95         Oct-95        Jan-96         Oct-96
Water Conseration                                0.40     ICB        Dec-94 - Apr-95    May-95         Jul-95        Oct-95         Oct-96
Leakage Detection Program                        0.12    N.B.F.      Sep-94 - Oct-94    Nov-94         Feb-95        May-95         Dec-95
Office Equipment to PIU                          0.11   shopping         Sep,-94        Oct-94         Oct-94        Nov-94         Jan-95
Consultancies
Implementation Studies                           0.24 shortlist of firm  Sep-94 - Nov-94  Dec-94       Feb-95        May-95         Dec-95
Contract Coordination and Supervision            0. 84 shortlist of firm  Sep-94 - Nov-94  Dec-94      Feb-95        May-95        Mar-99
Training and Technical Assistance                0.61    N.B.F.    Sep-94 - Nov-94      Dec-94         Feb-95        May-95         Dec-96
Staffing of PIU                                  0.73 shortlist of firm  Aug-94         Sep-94         Sep-94        Dec-94        Mar-00
Sub Total        19.67
Enviroinnental Management Comnponent
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan          0.50    N.B.F.      Feb-94 - Oct-94    Jan-95         Mar-95        Jun-95         Jun-98
Tourism Development and Management Plan          0.50    N.B.F.      Mar-94 -Oct-94     Jan-95         Mar-95        Jun-95         Jun-98
Management Program for Lake Pape/Jurkaln         0.30     N.B.F      Apr-94 - Oct-94      n/a           n/a          Jan-95         Jun-98
Management Program for Lake Pape/Jurkaln         0.20   shopping    Apr-94 - Oct-94       n/a           n/a          Jan-95         Jun-98
Sub Total         1.50
TOTAL          21.17



ANNEX I
Page 25
C. Disbursements
40.          The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years (1995-2000)
on the following basis:
41.          The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    For good and works: 100%  of foreign expenditures, 100%  of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(b)    100% of expenditures for consultancy services and training.
42.          The allocation of the Bank loan proceeds and the corresponding local contribution
proceeds are shown in Table 6; Table 7 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements.
43.          Disbursement requests will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PIU. It is
expected that the members of the PIU as well as the Projects Department of the Ministry of Environment
and Regional Development will participate in disbursement training organized in Latvia or Washington
D.C.
44.          Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by external audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $100,000 equivalent, where statements
of expenditure (SOE) would be used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be
submitted provided they are for amounts equivalent to at least US $50,000. The Bank would not honor
direct payment requests below US $50,000.
45.          To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of major foreign conmnercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $200,000, representing
about four months of average expenditures. At the request of the Borrower, and based on project needs,
the Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account up to the amount of the
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly
or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment would follow the standard procedure. In addition, monthly bank
statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests.



ANNEX I
Page 26
Table 6: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
US S Million
IBRD                       Local Contribution
Amount               %             Amount               %
Water And Wastewater Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
Water Supply System
..................... ......................................... .. ..........................................
New Otanki Main                                                       0.75           18.75                  0.38           21.50
Service Extension                                                     0.10            2.50                  0.04             2.00
Sewerage
............................................................................I.............I..................
Sewer Reconstruction                                                  0.28            7.00                  0.36           35.30
Sewer Rehabilitation                                                  1.21          30.25                   0.23
Smaller Equipment
Water Supply
........................................ ................................. .........................  ...
Water Conservation                                                    0.24            6.00                  0.16             5.20
Laboratory Equipment                                                  0.18            4.50
Chlorination Equipment                                                0.10            2.50                  0.02             3.30
Project Implementation Unit
Office Equipment                                                      0.11            2.75
Consultant Services
Water Supply                                                                          0.00
............................................................................................................
Implementation Surveys                                                0.17            4.25                  0.08             4.60
Training and Technical Assistance
Contract Coordination and Supervision                                 0.36            9.00                  0.48           28.10
Project Implementation Unit = PPF
Refinancing
International Consultant and Staffing                                 0.30            7.50                  0.42
Disbursement Component A                                              3.80          95.00
Environmental Management Component
Equipment and Goods                                                   0.20            5.00
Disbursement Component B                                              0.20            5.00
Total Disbursement                                                    4.00         100.00                   2.17          100.00



ANNEX I
Page 27
Table 7: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
FY                 Quarter        Loan Disbursement           Cumulative           Disbursement Profile
Since Approval       This Qtr.      Cumulative     Total %          Sector*       Regional *
FY 1995             Jun-95            0.63             0.63       16
FY 1996             Sep-95            0.47             1.10       28               0                0
Dec-95            0.63             1.73       43
Mar-96            0.27             2.00       50                6               3
Jun-96            0.30            2.30        58
FY 1997             Sep-96            0.32             2.62       66               10               6
Dec-96            0.13             2.75       69
Mar-97            0.10             2.85       71               18               6
Jun-97            0.10            2.95        74
FY 1998             Sep-97            0.10             3.05       76               26               14
Dec-97            0.10             3.15       79
Mar-98            0.10             3.25       81               34               18
Jun-98            0.12            3.37        84
FY 1999             Sep-98            0.13             3.50       88               42              26
Dec-98            0.10             3.60       90
Mar-99            0.10             3.70       93               54               30
Jun-99            0.11            3.81        95
FY 2000             Sep-99            0.10             3.91       98               62              50
Dec-99            0.09             4.00       100
20-Mar                             4.00       100              70               58
Loan Closing Date:               March 31, 2000
All regions - subsector set.
** Region - sector set. (ECA)



Table 8: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
COMPONENT A. WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Pre-Project                   Project Year                                     Total   Procurement
Project Element                       Activities 1        2         3          4          5         6              Payment    Method
96       97  -      98     _  99
loan Timing
Sign/Eff/Close - April 1, 1995 - March 31, 2000
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
New Otanki Main                       - - -                                       ,                                      1.13    ICB
Service Extension                                                                                                       0.14     other
Sewer Reconstruction                  ----   _                                                                          0.64      ICB
Sewer Rehabilitation                                 _  .                                                                1.44     ICB
Completion of new WWTP &Spare Parts - -         _   _  _ _                                                              3.99     NBF
Northem Interceptor                   ----   _            _  _                                                          2.38     NBF
Southem Interceptor                                   _   _   _                                                          1.74    NBF
Partly New Tefminal Main              ----          -                  - _ _                                            4.86     NBF
& Rehab of Main Pumping Station
Smaller Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                  ---    _                                                                          0.18      ICB
Chlorination Equipment                                                                                                  0.12     other
Water Conservation                                 _   _          _                                                      0.40     ICB
Leakage Detection Program             ----  _                                                                           0.12     NBF
Consultantancies
Project Implementation Unit           ----   _            _            - _  _                                           0.84     other
Implementation Studies                ----   _                                                                          0.24     other
Contract Coordination & Supervision   ----   _            _  _ _  _  _                                                  0.84     other
Training and Technical Assistance     --       t         t        1                                                     0.61     NBF
TOTAL                                                                                                                   19.67
Bank Financed Project Elements include USS3.8 million from Bank and USS2.17 million from GOL                             5.97
s m



ANNEX I
Page 29
D. Finance
46.           Overview. The LWWE has been identified by the MOE as being among the more
progressive and technically capable water and wastewater utilities in Latvia. It is the intention of the MOE
to have Liepaja serve as a "model utility" for secondary cities and provide: (a) an example of a sound
water and wastewater utility which may be applied elsewhere; and (b) a facility which could be used for
in-country training on "software" and "hardware" issues. To this end, despite the administrative, financial
and technical constraints which may exist, the MOE, in cooperation with the MOL, intends to focus its
efforts on making LWWE an autonomous and effective utility by mobilizing local and foreign resources
to support complementary investment and institutional strengthening activities.
47.           Central to the approach of institutional strengthening is the development of a formal
"twinning arrangement," on a contractual basis, with another water and wastewater utility. This twinning
arrangement would include specific activities, which would be defined as a component of the Action Plan
for LWWE, to include support for: utility management; system investment planning; rehabilitation
program design; construction supervision; operation and maintenance; monitoring and use of laboratory
data; tariff setting; billing and collection; accounting and auditing; human resources development and
public information programs.
48.           Past Performance. Analysis of LWWE financial statements3 for the years 1991 -1993
shows that revenue was adequate to cover cash charges, but the accounts lacked proper charges for non-
cash items; these include: provision for planned maintenance, provision for bad and doubtful debts (which
are considerable), proper asset depreciation reflecting replacement costs and provision for future
investment needs. Because proper non-cash charges were not reflected in the formal accounts, there were
no deficits reported during 1991-1993 and therefore no subsidy was required on the part of the
Municipality during these years.
49.           To date LWWE has not received external financing for capital investments, consequently
no long term external debt exists. Most of the short term debt, reflected largely in accounts payable, is
money owed for electricity supply. The financial viability of LWWE is seriously impaired by current poor
budgeting practices which have indirectly induced relatively low tariff levels. Previous unrealistic debt
collection capability have deprived LWWE of cash to properly run its day-to-day operations and
maintenance. Consequently, LWWE is under considerable financial strain and is in debt to a number of
creditors. The budget is prepared on the assumption of 100% revenue collection on a current basis. On
the basis of budgets thus constructed, the City Council determines the tariff rates and tax liability. The
enterprise's financial position is further aggravated by (a) the fact that it depends on the local public
housing enterprise to collect its charges; (b) the failure to levy a charge for emptying cess pits; and (c)
the fact that it does not receive a portion of the environmental fees and fines for the collection and
treatment of highly polluted wastewater.
50.           Table 9 below shows the deterioration of LWWE's financial performance over the last
three years. It should be noted that the accounts do not reflect the lack of any accumulated cash from
years of non-recovery of depreciation; consequently the financial position of LWWE is not as promising
as presented below:
3      The first external audit of the accounts is underway for 1993.



ANNEX I
Page 30
Table 9. LWWE's Financial Performance -- 1991-1993
(Lats)
1991        1992         1993
Sales (thousand m3)                     9,964        8,888       7,466
Average tariff (santimes/m3)*            .61         4.09         11.27
Revenues                                60,693      363,903     841,108
Operating Expenses                      51,718      303,765     719,360
Operating Income                         8,975       60,138      121,748
Less: Depreciation                      5,147         8,345      66,231
Net Income                              3,828       51,793       55,517
Operating Ratio (%)                      94%          86%          93%
Current Ratio                             2.7         1.7           5.0
Receivables (No. months' billings)       < 1           3.5          3.0
Source: Company accounts and mission adjustments
* I santimes equals 1/100th of a lat.
51.            Tariff Levels and Revenues. Water tariffs are currently inadequate to cover full costs,
particularly the non-cash items discussed in paragraph 47 above. Additionally, the structure of the tariffs
does not include standing charges (connection fees) nor incremental charges for higher levels of
consumption. All tariffs are either of a simple volumetric form or, as is the case for industrial discharges,
of a weighted volumetric form. Industrial customers are metered, but most domestic customers are not.
Sewerage tariffs are generally applied on the basis of consumed (metered or estimated) water, rather than
accurate sewerage metering. The only exceptions are those for large industrial customers which use
considerable volumes of water in the production process, for which a revised "return rate" is agreed, or
for those who possess their own water supply, in which case the private supply is metered and a
"reduced" charge calculated.
52.            No provision has been made for bad or doubtful debts in the operating accounts nor
interest charges for late receipts when determining tariff increases. Proper provisions for these debts
would justify higher tariffs allowing LWWE to make proper accounting provisions. In practice, the
Liepaja City Council has been reluctant to raise tariffs as high as the LWWE would like, given the
political pressure to keep utility prices low. On the other hand, if the municipality suppresses tariffs
below the level at which costs would be recovered, it would, in theory, be obliged to finance the deficit.
However, no deficit-funding has been made as the subsequent years tariffs have been based on budgeted
costs without taking into account the previous year's losses.
53.            Despite several tariff increases in 1991,1992, and 1993 (1993 reflected tax increases
only), tariffs have not keep pace with the high (and erratic) periods of inflation and thus have failed to
adjust properly to real cost increases. In March 1994, the GOL agreed to a 50 percent combined tariff
increase for water and wastewater of approximately 2 santimi per unit charged (effective April 1, 1994
for industry and July 1, 1994 for domestic consumers); the combined residential tariff currently stands
at the level of Ls. 0.11 or US $0.19 equivalent.



ANNEX I
Page 31
54.          The GOL has imposed financial constraints on LWWE's operational revenue by requiring
25 percent of its wastewater revenues be passed on to the state (reflected on operating expenses in Table
1). However, LWWE has full operational and financial responsibility for handling the discharges.
Additionally, penalty charges collected for excess wastewater discharges are directly passed on to the
National and Regional Environmental Protection Funds, although LWWE also has the responsibility for
handling these excess discharges.
55.          Billing and Collection. LWWE billing is computerized; consumers are divided into: (a)
residential customers, (b) budget customers (including schools, hospitals, offices and shops), and (c)
industrial customers. At present, industrial customers pay the highest tariffs and residential customers the
lowest. This reflects a deliberate policy of cross subsidy to residential customers. However, it is now the
LWWE's intention that tariffs should converge.
56.          Collection is a major problem  for LWWE. Accounts receivable have increased
dramatically since 1991, from traditionally 0.1 percent, to 24 percent in 1994, representing approximately
three months of income. Collection from institutional and industrial consumers is handled by the utility.
For domestic consumers, collection is carried out by the Housing Enterprise; in this case it is clear that
collection is hampered by LWWE's lack of direct contact with its customers as well as lack of individual
metering. Approximately 80 percent of Liepaja's housing is municipal stock, of which approximately 90
percent are in "blocks" of flats of five or more stories, none of which is currently metered. The water
bill is attributed to each building according to estimated consumption of the building and, in the case of
apartment buildings, divided among households. The billing is then carried out on a monthly basis, and
added to household charges for rent and other utilities. Many residents do not pay their block enterprises
which, in turn, are unable to pay their bill to the LWWE.
57.          While LWWE has made arrangements to follow up outstanding debts of its major metered
industrial customers, it has no corresponding procedures for initiating action with individual domestic
customers. Although LWWE has the right to disconnect customers for non-payment, it cannot isolate
individual customers in a block and is therefore unable to implement the main deterrent at its disposal.
It is understood that residents who do not pay their rent to the block enterprise are rarely evicted, so there
are reported to be a large number of customers who are able to pay but refuse, as well as a large number
of customers who cannot pay. It is hoped that the planned privatization of the "block enterprises" would
enable the LWWE to reduce the level of non-payment from these customers.
58.           Other means to improve collections include: (a) administrative measures; (b) technical
measures; (c) legal measures; and (d) well targeted programs to create social pressure on parties to pay
their tariffs. Administrative measures include discounts on bills paid promptly and penalties for late bills.
In addition, housing directors' salaries could be linked to the amount of revenue collected. Technical
measures include installing block meters. Legal measures include monthly deduction from defaulters'
earnings, which has been tried before with success, although discontinued due to political pressure. It
should be reconsidered with provisions included to protect low income families and retirees. These and
other measures will be discussed further at negotiations.
59.          Accounting Policies and Audits. Prior to the collapse of the FSU, Latvian companies were
integrated into the command system of five-year plans; financial statements were prepared largely to
facilitate this process. Currently, the western accrual accounting system is replacing the former Soviet
cash basis accounting, and LWWE has revalued its assets in accordance with the new requirements.



ANNEX I
Page 32
However, historical statements are not readily comparable with present financial performance, and despite
a major asset revaluation in December, 1992 and tariff increases, proper charges are not made against
revenue for depreciation. This emphasizes the need in periods of high or erratic inflation for regular
adjustments to tariff and asset values to ensure proper funding for asset replacement. Additionally, a more
comprehensive asset revaluation should be carried out in the next three years in order to provide an
acceptable estimate of LWWE's assets based on current replacement costs and an assessment of their
physical condition, in order to make proper provisions in light of inflation. Given that a proper asset
revaluation is an expensive exercise, warranted only with an intent to privatize LWWE's assets,
immediate asset revaluation is not required; LWWE's priorities are to sustain a positive and adequate cash
flow. An interim and less expensive solution to establishing proper depreciation charges is for LWWE,
with legal authority, to revalue its assets based on a limited and less costly physical inventory to assess
replacement value and thus adjusting, as necessary, the past inflation indexed revaluation approach.
60.           To facilitate improved control of LWWE's finances, the project proposes to implement
automated accounting systems linked to various Management Information System (MIS) components
including billing, general accounts, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and all other major accounting
functions. Additionally, the proposed MIS system would be linked with both operational budget planning
and a strategic planning system. An automated fixed asset portion would provide all pertinent informnation
on depreciation and easily readable means of handling revaluations as the economy experiences inflation.
It is understood that the implementation of an MIS system has to be phased over time due to investment
requirements, not only in terms of hardware and software but also with regard to human expertise.
Phasing should thus begin with the highest priorities in managing and controlling the accounts.
61.           Future Financial Performance. Projections of LWWE's financial performance have been
prepared by consultants and revised accordingly within the Bank which assume that LWWE would
introduce substantial water and sewerage tariff increases as presented below in Table 10; these proposed
tariffs would allow LWWE to be financially self-sustaining by 1997 assuming these tariffs are maintained
at appropriate levels and increased regularly. LWWE's profit margin (before tax) should range from 25
to 28 % over the next five years; and the working ratio (operating cost divided by revenue) from 67
percent in 1994 to 48 percent in 1997. LWWE is expected to maintain or improve these performance
levels from 1998 onwards.
Table 10 - Tariff Increases (real)
Water Supply                       Sewerage
Domestic  Institutional  Industrial  Domestic  Institutional  Industrial
ANNUAL
INCREASES (pa)
1995          16%         4%         0%         30%         17%        11%
1996          14%         5%         0%         31%         13%         5%
1997          11%         I %        0%         30%         6%          7%
62.          In preparing the projections, the financial objective was to achieve a profit margin of at
least 15 percent (before payment of profit tax) by 1997 in real terms. This objective was prescribed by
the Liepaja Town Board in order to sustain the financial performance of LWWE and avoid the risk of



ANNEX I
Page 33
municipal subsidies. Detailed financial projections, the underlying assumptions and notes on tariff
adjustments can be found in tables 1-6 in Appendix 2 of this Annex.
63.            The projections show  that the water and sewerage operations will be financially
sustainable, provided: (a) the revenue projections are fulfilled; (b) water and sewerage tariffs are
periodically adjusted to maintain the objective of full debt service cost recovery; (c) accounts receivable
are brought under control (from 3 months outstanding of payments due to 2 months); (d) adequate levels
of sustained maintenance are provided; and (e) the reorganization, training and technical assistance
proposals are implemented to promote operating efficiency and cost reductions. The projections show that
with the prescribed tariff increases presented above, the utility generates sufficient funds to cover the debt
service obligations (it exceeds 2.0 from year 1994 through 2003).
64.            The projections for the water supply system and sewerage system are presented below
in Table 11, individually and combined. By 1998, operating revenue for the water supply system and
sewerage system will increase 150% and 700% in real terms from 1994 level, respectively, due to real
tariff adjustments. The working ratio (cash expenses divided by revenue) will similarly improve over the
1994-1998 period, decreasing from 84% to 64% for water supply and for sewerage, from 69% to 42%,
over the five-year period. The relatively larger operating margin for sewerage is required in contrast to
the water supply system, to accommodate the larger depreciation charges associated with sewerage. As
seen in Table 11, the other key efficiency and liquidity indicators show LWWE approaching a healthier
financial position by 1998 due to the real tariff increases.
65.            Tariff Affordability. Current combined tariffs correspond to Ls. 0.1 1/in3 for domestic
customers, which represents approximately 2.3 percent of the monthly income of an average income
family. Given the estimated real tariff increase of 149 percent and real income growth, the maximum
water services tariffs would correspond to an average of 3.1 percent of the average household income.4
This is higher than today's level, but within the range of acceptability by Bank standards.5
66.            It should be noted that households in Latvia often have a number of non-cash benefits and
undeclared income that are not reflected in the income level used in our affordability calculations. It can
also be noted that the combined tariff levels in Riga are about US $0.15/m3, which is about 35 percent
higher than the current rate for Liepaja, corresponding to approximately 5.5 percent of an average
household income. Assumptions underlying the affordability estimates are presented in Annex 4.
4      This tariff level then sets total revenue potential, and from this the serviceable debt level is derived.
5      Three percent of average household income or five percent of the average income of the thirtieth percentile of total
income distribution.



ANNEX I
Page 34
Table 11 - LWWE Projected Financial Performance 1994 - 1998
(Lats 000 1994 constant)
1994        1995        1996        1997        1998
REVENUE
Water Supply
Sales (million m3)                            7.50        7.60        7.60        7.60         7.60
Average tariff (Lats/m3)'                     6.48        8.11         8.87        9.47        9.56
Revenue                                     554.40      615.80      680.20      728.20       734.80
Sewage
Volume (million m3)                           9.90        10.00       10.10       10.20       10.30
Average tariff (Lats/m3)                      8.20        9.79        11.42       13.37       13.69
Revenue                                     809.60      980.00    1,148.70    1,358.30    1,404.20
Total Revenue                              1,364.00    1,595.80    1,828.90    2,086.50    2,139.00
EXPENSES
Operating Expenses*
Water Supply                                409.60      422.70      430.90      447.20      464.00
Sewage                                      499.80      513.10      532.70       564.10      599.80
Total Expenses                              909.40      935.80      963.60    1,011.30    1,063.80
OPERATING INCOME
Water Supply                                144.80      193.10      249.20      281.00       270.80
Sewerage                                    309.80      466.90      616.00      794.20       804.40
Total                                       454.60      660.00      865.20    1,075.20    1,075.20
Less:
Interest                                                 64.00      156.40      215.50      247.60
Depreciation                                 72.5       197.40      245.40      285.90      296.50
NET INCOME                                          382.1       398.6       463.4        573.8       531.1
Working Ratio %                              67          59          53          48          49
Operating Ratio %                            72          75          75          72          75
Current Ratio                                 2.7         3.3         5.5         7.1          9.0
Account Receivable/Collection Period            1.80        1.90        1.80         1.60        1.60
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                               4.0         2.7         2.5         2.3
Source: Consultants with internal adjustments.
* Excludes resource and pollution taxes and bad debts provision;
ratios above include these expenses.



ANNEX I
Page 35
67.           Internal Rate of Return. The viability of the project is driven by a selected tariff level that
will allow Liepaja to generate a cash flow sufficient enough to generate at least a 15 percent profit margin
by 1997, to service debt and to provide proper provisions for planned maintenance, bad and doubtful
debts, replacement cost depreciation and future investment needs. The project is not consequently driven
by a financial rate of return (FRR). Nonetheless, cash flow generation must be sufficient enough to
generate a FRR that exceeds the average weighted cost of capital to LWWE.
68.           The FRR was calculated by the incremental costs and benefit streams to the capital
investment. The tangible, financial benefits comprise the higher tariff levels justified by the capital
expenditure program as well as the operations and maintenance cost efficiencies (reductions) established
with the investment program. The proposed investment on the water supply and sewerage systems of
Liepaja has a combined financial rate of return (FRR) of 13.7% which indicates that the project is
financially viable.6 The individual FRRs are 23.5% for the water supply component (which accounts for
13% of the capital investment) and 11.6% for the sewerage component (87% of the capital investment).
The results are summarized in Table 12 below together with a number of sensitivity tests.
69.           For the water supply component, the FRRs range from 18.0% to 26.2% and indicate that
investment is unlikely to be adversely affected by normal-range variations in costs and revenues. For the
sewerage component, the FRRs are lower at 8.9% to 13.3% which indicate the need for tight cost control
and rigorous enforcement of regular tariff increases in line with the main financial projections.
Table 12 - Financial Rates of Return
Component                           Water Supply          Sewerage        Combined
1. Base Case                          23.5%                 11.6%           13.7%
Sensitivity Tests
2. Costs        +10%                   21.3%                10.2%            12.1%
3. Costs         -10%                  26.2%                13.3%            15.5%
4. Revenue      +10%                   25.9%                13.1%            15.4%
5. Revenue       -10%                  21.1%                10.0%            12.0%
6. Revenue lagged 1 year               19.6%                10.1%            11.8%
7. Combination of 2 and 6              18.0%                 8.9%            10.6%
E. Project Risks
70.           Slippage. The proposed Project faces a number of political and technical risks due to the
fact that it is the initial project of this type in Latvia. With regard to the WW7C, there is a risk that the
Project implementation could be delayed due to the limited experience of the MOE and the LWWE in
these types of activities. There is also a risk that, given the very limited experience with actual costs for
6      These rates well exceed 2.9 percent, the weighted average cost of borrowing of the utility, reflecting the 71%
grant element in the project investmnent.



ANNEX I
Page 36
implementation of water and wastewater improvements in post-Soviet Latvia, the volatility of local price
changes, and previous lack of construction activities to intemational standards in this sector, construction
costs may be underestimated. In order to minimize these risks, the Project provides for significant
supervision by staff from Bank headquarters and the regional office, establishment of a PIU, and the
adoption of conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with the use of appropriate physical and
price contingencies.
71.          On the basis of previous Bank experience in Poland, there is also a risk that the GOL and
cooperating local governments may have problems with the timely provision of local currency support
and that the availability of adequately qualified personnel for Project management positions may be
constrained by govermnent imposed limits on salaries paid to civil servants. It should be noted, however,
that in the Polish situation these constraints were overcome by the Borrower and the Bank being closely
engaged in Project supervision and quickly taking actions to address these types of implementation
problems as they occurred.
72.          Institutional and Financial. On the institutional and financial side the main risks concem:
(a) the political commitment of the Liepaja City Council to support the transformation of LWWE into an
independently managed water and wastewater utility; (b) political or macro-economic factors which may
interfere with the commitment of the Liepaja City Council to authorize the LWWE to raise tariffs
sufficiently to cover the repayment of the Bank loan; and (c) continued problems with the capacity of
LWWE to effectively collect water bills.
73.          These risks would be reduced by carefully monitoring the requirements for tariff increases
and providing significant institutional development support to the utility to improve its financial
management, billing and collection practices. The acceptability and the ability of maintaining high and
increasing tariff levels should also be considered. The Action Plan, with a plan for tariff increases, should
be formally endorsed by the City Council, to ensure that the necessary tariff increases would be realized.
Progress in compliance with the Action Plan would be evaluated annually.
74.          Technology. The technology of the proposed Project is standard and involves no unusual
risks. The main risk is the utility's financial and institutional capability to carry out the proposed Project,
as it would require substantial strengthening of its ability to carry out an investment program in general.
Experience with other municipal water and wastewater authorities in transitional economies demonstrates
that close Project supervision and adequate technical assistance mitigate these risks.
75.          Environmental Management Component Risks. The principal risks for the EMC of the
Project concern: (a) difficulties in coordination of activities between various national, local,
nongovernmental and consultant organizations; (b) resistance from local authorities and residents to
proposed land use control measures to be included in the integrated coastal zone management, tourism
development and protected areas management plans; and (c) unanticipated problems associated with the
complex issues of restitution of lands confiscated by the State during the Soviet period to their pre-1940
owners.
76.          Coordination issues can be effectively addressed by the establishment of implementation
teams for each of the activities with the support of the Project Coordinator and various Activity
Coordinators, complemented by close Bank supervision. Resistance to implementation due to land use
constraints and conflicts with pre-1940 land owners can only be addressed by having the direct



ANNEX I
Page 37
participation of these parties, as proposed, in the planning and implementation of these activities. It
should be noted that the demonstration activities by their very nature are intended to test the application
of these approaches in the Latvian context and to provide lessons which can be transferred elsewhere
within the country and the Baltic Sea region.
F. Loan Covenants for Implementation
77.          Section VI of the Staff Appraisal Report shows a complete list of loan covenants to be
monitored during the Project.






IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Actions to Monitor Development Objectives
78.          Project monitoring indicators were developed during appraisal in order to enable tracking
of Project inputs on key development objectives throughout the Project cycle. At the mid-term review,
the need to fine-tune or restructure the Project design will be based on the data received from these
indicators.
B. Project Indicators
79.          Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in determining the impact
of a given intervention on development objectives, a number of indicators will be used to monitor and
evaluate progress during the implementation of the Liepaja Environment Project. However, the progress
of these indicators would be evaluated in relative, not absolute terms. During supervision, a selected
number of commercial, operational, financial and environmental indicators would be monitored in
accordance with Project objectives. An illustrative list of indicators follows for each component:
Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
(a)    Commercial indicators
*     Service area is expected to increase with new connections to both water supply
and sewerage. The change in number of water subscribers and connections
would be estimated; and
*     The collection ratio (total collections divided by total billings) is expected to
improve in accordance with the Loan and Project Agreements.
(b)    Operational indicators
*     The non-revenue water percentage (volume of water produced minus volume of
water sold, divided by volume of water produced) is expected to be reduced.
(c)    Financial indicators
*     The average unit price adjustments for water and sewerage supplied for each
consumer category (the tariff schedule) would be monitored in accordance with
the Loan and Project Agreements; and
*     The following standard financial indicators, in addition to the internal rate of
return, would be monitored:
A Working Ratio (ratio of operating costs to operating revenues,
excluding depreciation, interest payments, and debt service payments) not
to exceed 70%;



ANNEX I
Page 39
An Operating Ratio (ratio of operating costs to operating revenues,
including depreciation and interest costs, but excluding debt service
payments) not to exceed 85%;
A Debt Service Coverage Ratio (the extent to which internal cash
generation covers total debt services) not to fall below 1.5;
A Current Ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities) not to fall
below 2.0.
(d)    Environmental Indicators
The following environmental indicators would be monitored:
Reliability of water supply and distribution system;
Reliability of wastewater collection and conveyance system;
Operational performance and level of load reduction achieved by
upgraded wastewater treatment plant; and
Levels of reduction of pollution loads at a selected number of locations.
Environmental Management Component
*     Activity No. 1. Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan. The progress of this
component would be measured against:
establishment of an activity steering committee with active involvement of the
major stakeholders in the local communities; and
successful development of the Management Plan and implementation of selected
priority small infrastructure improvements.
*     Activity No. 2. Eco-Tourism Development Plan. The following indicators would be
monitored:
-      consistency of tourism investments and visitor patterns with the objectives of the
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan;
-      change in number of tourists visiting the area;
-      change in number of tourism-related facilities to accommodate new visitors; and
-      change in tourism-related employment in the region.



ANNEX I
Page 40
*     Activities No. 3 and No. 4. Management Plans and Programs for Lake Pape and
Jurkalne. The progress of these components would be measured against:
establishment of activity steering committees with involvement of the major
stakeholders in the local communities;
clear delineation of the protected areas and associated buffer zones; and
successful development of the Management Plans and implementation of selected
priority small infrastructure improvements.






Appendix 1 of Annex 1
MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION






D..............
00
4      .....                                                                                        I            
..... w..  . -..   .    .-. ........                                                               . . . ....     ... .--- -- ...........  -.-  .--.....  - .S . .  .-. . -.......   ... 
...............
. ..... - ..
~~
-,X...............
.-l  .*.*.........
I
...............
ig~~                                                              A    I1  1z1                  
......... ...... .  . ..................~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~~ ~~~I
.... a  .t......



V*b*b.
2 .,..
. .............~~*                                                                                                                                                                                .                  .....          . .             .         .     .     .
..... .  .,..
. . . .....
g , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........
.  .    ...            ...  .............. .... ................................................................................. ..... ......................................... ............. .........                                                                                                  ......................................... ......... .
....        . .          . . .                    . . .. . . . .            . ..  . ..  .  ..    .                                                                                                                                  . . .. . .. .
co                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I1



AppeU. I - TAk C.                              NILESIONES IN PROJECT ThIPMETATION
WaIUS.pyr: W      _w C  im_yIIm
YEAR                    1994       1995 I                 1996                   1 999 I                                  4
QUARTER                  3     4     l    2    3    4                        4          2    3   14      l         13    4
PUIPARATON
-  ba d   d 
local NcasW  I
_S                                          I
Devinkpav  Nadian1
C      -N                     _____
MONrrOIING
M-y P    .- IRI



Appendix I1- Table D.                                                      MILEST~ONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Water Supply: Chlorination Equipment
YEAR                                  :1994              1995                                 1996                               :1997                                 1998
QUARTER                                 3         4        1        2        3        4         I       2         3        4        1        2        3        4         1        2        3        4
PREPARATION
Development of Standard
Equipment List
Developmem of Tender
Documents
Procurement Notice in
Local Newspapera
Submision of Tender Docs 
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negoustons
Contrac SigningU
IMPLEMENTATION
Detaled Design
Supply and InsaLdlation
Commissioning
MONrTORING
Monthly Progress Repoetu



Appendix 1- Table E.                                                                                                    MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Water Supply: Laboratory Equipment
YEAR                                                        1994                          .1995                                                      1996  |                                                   1997                                                    .1998
QUARTER                                                        3             4                 I             2              3             4              I             2             3             4              I             2              3             4              1             2              3             4
PREPARATION
Development of Standard
Equipment List
Developmnent of Tender
Documents
Submission of Tender Docs                                  .
Bidding Period
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contract Signng
...........         ... - ......... ........                 .......     .......................            .............................              ......    .................................   ........................................_    _._................................................................. ...........
IMPLEMENTATION
Deailed Design
Supply and Installation
Commissioning
.    . ....   .  ..........         .....    ........... ....       .- ............          ......                      ...................    .................................. ,_.... ...                    ...    ....................................................  ......................  .....................................................
MONITORING
Monthly Progress Reports



(.........
0~~
-
. .............
MeZ * ~~~~~..   .......... . .....          ............ .. .................................. ...._-~- J
i                                  ~~~~nl
~~~~~~~~.- . . . ... .... . ........... ........ . .......... _.  ......... . ... ... . . ....
...............
Ck.~~~~II
.........  ..... ....... ..................... . . .............. .................. ........ ........  _ __........................_ . ... . .......... ...... ...
.1  1?  II I    I    X I  I  ii                                                                         X  *     I



Appendix I - Table G.                                          MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMfPLEMENTATION
Sewerage: Completion of New Wastewater Treatment Plant Incl. Spare Parts
YEAR                            :1994           1995                           :1996                          :1997                          :1998*
QUARTER                           3       4       I      2       3       4       1       2      3       4       1   12          3       4       1      2    13         4
PREPARATION
Development of Standard
EqWp-a List
DeveJopmena of Tezder
Domments
BWding Pcruod
Evshuaon and Negoiations
Conair  SigningU
IMPLEMENTATION
DelsldW Design
Supply and Erection
comiwnmng
MONrrORING
Mmihly Progress Repwu



........  ..X.l
.. .......1...
.. . ........I
.... ......... ....................................................                                        .................................... ....... .                    ............... .......                                            .       . . .....         . .
e                                         iI
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
..........                                                                                                                                              .                                                             I
.... . .   .    ...... .... ........ ... . . .................. ............ ..........  .......... ............ ............ ..... ...............   .....                                                           ....                   ...... .................. . 
.                  . . . . . .                                                                                                 I                   I                                     2                            ]I . 



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .M .------------ ..                   ......   ....... -  - -- -  ------4-----1-----    ............--1..........   ...
-t A                                                                             X
tI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
C..'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              _ ..___.    . ..  . ... .  .    ....  .  .............................     ...... .     ..       . . . . . . . . . . .. .
_ _____                                           ...................................................... ... _  . .................. .............
_  | E'                     i i  lII    IiI[        {0 



00
I            .......
C4.
t~~~a                                                                                                      0
........ . ...
. . . . .    .. . . . . .    . . . . .    . . . . . .    . .. .. .    . . . . .   . . . . . .    . . . . .   . . . . . .    .   .. . . .   . . . .. .                        .. . . .    . . . . .
.......... i                                                                                                                  E
. . .......
m:......  ............. .......................   ...................................................... ........
..............l
''-             '''-'' ''j" .''.-'.'...  ..............................  ................................. .' ..." "'   ...... ...........................              ........ ........



V
0l--
w.......*...
[d.~~~~~~~~~~~ .....
....., _........._.............
Ii:                                                                                                                 I
............
......... .
............. ......... ....... .... .... ... .. .... .  ._ .............. ..... _ ...  _   ...  .  ................... ..
...... ... .   ..... ........................ . ............ ................. . _.... .. . _........ ......
C Sg  t11}  t]  110  1  1  X Il                                                              II1



Appendix 1 - Table L.                                                   MILESTONES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Support Training and Technical Assistance
YEAR                                 1994              1995                               1996                              :1997                              :1998
QUARTER                                3       4         1       2        3        4        I       2        3        4        1        2   ~ 3          4        1        2    13          4
PREPARATION
Development of TOR
Development of Tender
Document and Shon List
Submission of Tender Docs                        U
Bidding Pefiod
Evaluation and Negotiations
Contract Signing
IMPLEMENTATION
Twinning Arrangement
MONrrORING
Monthly Progress Reports



.                                                       .           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nJY2j  --d  AlqluW
E)N6NOfNOV(
.  ,- -.,   muoisimiaod
. .. uS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llw polma
NOLLVNIN31WDd
*                                ~~~~~~~~~~~SUTKIZS znuo;
,.UOIePO82N pUC UO-!-fl(EAl
Pot1 d  7U lp p!g
:I'-i iioqs PM slu;wnoo
-P. JO )U-WdOjI2-G
.  .                            *                              .                             qs!q v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loj5 puej!- n-drnog
p.   11 1paeW S   Ijo U M dOPA*
* OLIVwid3ud
z .     Z    .   I    .   .       .  z  I  .                 Z  .    I                       z t    .  I  .   ' *                            U3LK Vfl
661:                           L6611                           9661         .661.                           .t661.                             IVA
UU101d uopia2a2 a29e1e7 :AiddnS jaiUM,
NOLLLVINi3WIIJI 1.33rOd Nl S3NOiS3am                                                                jj aq- I x1puaddV



Appodh I - Table N.                              OMiESTONES IN PROJECT MPLElOENTATION
Suppui C.trac Coardbm ad Supevla
YEAR                    11994     11995                      1996                                             1998    1               1999
QUARTER                   3      4           2    3   1 4                              I 213  4    97 12   !3   !4    I 12  3    4     1    2  1 3 1  4
Daanebd sbon Liu
mfta. PM~ 
RElma Nsi                            i                       i
canm   orantU
_           _       _          _      I.         _                       _                       _                       _                        _
ifii_                -si
,_ ff R



Appendix 2 of Annex 1
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND NOTES ON TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS






ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 1
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS AND NOTES ON TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS
I. ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A.    General
1.    All the financial projections are presented in Lats at current prices i.e. including an allowance
for inflation: 20% 1994; 15% 1995; 10% 1996; 8% 1997; and 6% p.a. thereafter.
2.     The financial year runs from January 1 to December 31.
3.     The following financial projections have been prepared:
(a)    Revenue and expenditure statements - water supply and sewerage separately;
(b)    Balance sheet - water supply and sewerage combined;
(c)    Sources and application of funds - water supply and sewerage combined;
(d)    Cash Flow statement;
B.    Revenue and Expenditure Statement - Water Supply (Table 1)
4.    It is assumed that LWWE will set water tariffs and other charges which will satisfy the
financial objective of achieving a profit margin of at least 15% (before the payment of profit tax) by
1997 and maintain that level thereafter.
5.     Revenue will be derived from continual direct charges on users of LWWE's services based on
differential tariffs between consumer categories. In order to satisfy the financial objective set out in
Item 5 above, it is envisaged that average water tariffs could be increased in terms of constant prices
at the following rates:
Year        Domestic   Institutional   Industrial
1995          16%           4%             0%
1996          14%            5%            0%
1997          11%            1%            0%
6.     Operating expenses were prepared based on three sources of information: (a) LWWE's
accounts for 1993; (b) indicative estimates for 1994; and (c) study estimates of the cost savings and



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 2
incremental costs attributable to the proposed capital investments. All costs have been adjusted to
current prices using the inflation rates specified in Item 2 above with the exceptions listed in some of
the items below.
7.     Salaries and wages include a pension contribution of 37% and were increased by 30% in May
1994.
8.    Lauma Water - the Lauma textile factory contributed about 10% of LWWE's estimated water
production in 1993. Water production and costs for the last three years follow:
Year       Lauma Water         Costs to LWWE
(m3000)           (Lats)    (Lats/m3)
1991          1,336               690        0.0005
1992          1,359            19,485        0.0143
1993          1,126            42,211        0.0375
It is assumed that LWWE will continue to use the Lauma source, with the cost rising at the same rate
as projected inflation (see item 2).
9.     Natural Resources Charges are currently charged at Lats 0.005 per m3 and it is assumed that
these costs will rise in line with inflation.
10.   The future impact on electricity costs has two components:
(a)    No savings in energy consumption will accrue in Phase 1. The replacement of old
and inefficient pumps is programmed for Phase 2; and
(b)    Increased unit cost of electricity as the pricing of energy in Latvia is adjusted to real
resource costs. At present, LWWE pays a subsidized price of Lats 0.008 (US$
0.014) per kWh compared with a real market price of Lats 0.0114 (US$ 0.02) per
kWh. This value is predicted to increase in real terms as follows:
Value per Kwh
(1994 prices)
Year  Lats      US$
1993  0.0114   0.020
1995  0.0160   0.029
2000  0.0200   0.035
2005  0.0200   0.035
2010  0.0275   0.048



ANNEX 1
ADDendix 2
Page 3
In the financial projections, it is assumed that LWWE's unit cost for electricity will increase
steadily from Lats 0.008 (US$ 0.014) per Kwh in 1994 to Lats 0.02 (US$ 0.35) per kWh in
2000 to reflect the real resource costs to the Latvian economy.
11.   The projected energy consumption for LWWE's water supply system is as follows:
Year            Water Production     Electricity
(in3 million)      Consumption
(kWh million)
Actual
1991                                9.580
1992                                8.515
1993            10.372              8.178
Projected
1994            10.4                7.965
1995            10.4                7.965
1996            10.4              _7.965
1997            10.4                7.965
1998            10.4                7.965
1999            10.4                7.965
2000            10.4                 7.965
2005            10.4                 7.965
Based on the stable consumption of energy, LWWE's electricity costs for the water supply
system are determined by the increase in real prices specified above, plus the projected
inflation in Item 2 above.
12.   Heating
(a)    The proposed Phase 1 investment includes the supply of more efficient space heaters
which will reduce the consumption of energy by the water supply cost center from
approximately 245 MWh at present to 80 MWh from 1996 onwards; and



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 4
(b)    Similar to electricity, the cost of heating is expected to rise in real terms by 10% per
year from 1994 to 1999 (information provided "in consultation with World Bank
Specialists"); plus the projected inflation in Item 2 above.
13.    Materials and Supplies are expected to rise in line with inflation (Item 2 above).
14.   Incremental maintenance costs will be incurred on all civil works plus the machinery and
equipment proposed in the Phase 1 investment package. These are estimated as a percentage of the
capital costs in Tables 2 and 3: 0.05 % for civil works and 1 % for machinery and equipment.
15.    Transport is increased at 10% p.a. in real terms for the next five years; plus projected
inflation (see Item 2 above).
16.    Others - increased at 10% p.a. in real terms for the next five years; plus projected inflation
(see Item 2 above).
17.    Bad Debts are set at 10% of total revenue in 1994 and 1995; 5% in 1996 and 1997; and 2.5%
thereafter.
18.    Depreciation allowances were calculated on the following bases:
(a)    Existing Assets - according to LWWE, as of December 31, 1993 the existing fixed
assets of the water supply system had an estimated gross value of Lats 774,000 (US$
1.4 million). The annual depreciation allowance used in LWWE's accounts yields a
factor of 3.1 % p.a. (equivalent to an average asset life of 32 years). Asset values
were last adjusted in December 1992; but, it is recommended that a more
comprehensive revaluation should be conducted in the next two to three years in order
to provide a more realistic reflection of the replacement value and actual condition of
the assets;
(b)    Ongoing Investment - Lats 95,400 were expended on a booster pumping station in
1993 and a further Lats 50,000 will be spent on pipeline works in 1994. In addition,
it is assumed that modest investment in the distribution network will continue
throughout the projection period amounting to Lats 15,000 per year. The latter was
inflated at the projected inflation rate (see Item 2 above) to reflect the actual cost in
the future. Ongoing investment in water supply assets is assumed to have an asset life
of 30 years; and
(c)    Proposed Project - for the new assets, the depreciation allowance was calculated on a
straight-line basis without annual revaluation and assuming an average asset life of 30
years.
19.   Interest Charges reflect the full on-lending conditions for the repayment of the World Bank
loan: (a) interest rate 10% p.a.; (b) repayment period 17 years; and (c) 4 years grace period. The
debt repayment profiles for the water supply and sewerage components are presented in Table 2.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 5
20.   Turnover Tax is set at 18% of the revenue from institutional and industrial consumers.
21.   Profit Tax is set at 35% of net income after the payment of turnover tax.
C.    Revenue and Expenditure Statement - Sewerage (Table 3)
22.   The total population, population served and water consumed by users with connections to the
sewerage system and industrial wastewater discharges (treated and untreated) reflect the projections
prepared by team consultants.
23.   It is assumed that LWWE will set sewerage charges at levels which will satisfy the financial
objective of achieving a profit margin of at least 15% (before the payment of profit tax) by 1997 and
maintaining that level thereafter.
24.    Revenue will be derived from continual direct charges on users of LWWE's services based on
differential tariffs between consumer categories. In order to satisfy the financial objective set out in
Item 24 above, it is envisaged that average sewerage tariffs would be increased in terms of constant
prices at the following rates:
Year        Domestic   Institutional   Industrial
1995          30%           17%           11%
1996          31%           13%           5%
1997          30%           6%            7%
25.   Operating expenses were prepared based on three sources of information: (a) LWWE
accounts for 1993; (b) indicative estimates for 1994; and (c) study estimates of the cost savings and
incremental costs attributable to the proposed capital investments. All costs have been adjusted to
current prices using the inflation rates specified in Item 2 above, with the exceptions listed in some of
the items below.
26.    Salaries and wages include a pension contribution of 37% and were increased by 30% in May
1994.
27.   According to LWWE, natural resources charges for wastewater in 1994 are as follows:
(a) domestic - Lats 0.0015 per m3; (b) institutional - Lats 0.01 per in3; and (c) industrial - Lats 0.02
per ni3 for untreated flows and Lats 0.04 per m3 for treated flows. These values were projected in
line with projected inflation.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 6
28.   Future impact on electricity costs has two components:
(a)    No savings in energy consumption will accrue in Phase 1;
(b)    The proposed investments in the sewerage system in Phase 1 will increase energy
consumption as follows:
Electricity Consumption (kWh million)
Sewage Flow   Without       Increased
Year          (m3 million)    Project      Cons WWTP   Other            Total
Actual
1991         15.803         5.471                                      5.471
1992         12.557         4.040                                      4.040
1993         9.950          5.078                                      5.078
Projected
1994                        5.078                                      5.078
1995                        5.078                                      5.078
1996                        5.078         0.162          0.460         5.700
1997                        5.078         0.323          0.919         6.320
1998                        5.078         0.485          1.379         6.942
1999                        5.078         0.646          1.839         7.563
2000                        5.078         0.808          2.298         8.184
2005                        5.078         0.808          2/298         8.184
Based on the projected consumption of energy, LWWE's electricity costs for the sewerage
system are determined by the increase in real prices specified in Item 12(b), plus the projected
inflation in Item 2 above.
29.   Heating
(a)    The proposed Phase 1 investment includes the supply of more efficient space heaters
which will reduce the consumption of energy by the sewerage cost center from
approximately 100 MWh at present to 60 MWh from 1996 onwards; and



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 7
(b)    Similar to electricity, the cost of heating is expected to rise in real terms by 10% per
year from 1994 to 1999 (information provided "in consultation with World Bank
Specialists"); plus the projected inflation in Item 2 above.
30.    Materials and Supplies are expected to rise in line with inflation.
31.    Repairs and Maintenance - incremental maintenance costs will be incurred on all civil works
plus the machinery and equipment proposed in the Phase 1 investment package. These are estimated
as a percentage of the capital costs in Tables 2 and 3: 0.05% for civil works and 1% for machinery
and equipment.
32.    Transport is increased at 10% p.a. in real terms for the next five years; plus projected
inflation (see Item 2).
33.    Others increased at 10% p.a. in real terms for the next five years; plus projected inflation (see
Item 2).
34.    Bad Debts are set at 10% of the total revenue in 1994 and 1995; 5% in 1996 and 1997; and
2.5% thereafter.
35.    Depreciation allowances were calculated on the following bases:
(a)    Existing Assets - according to LWWE, as of December 31, 1993, the existing fixed
assets of the sewerage system had an estimated gross value of Lats 1,363,000 (US$
2.4 million). The annual depreciation allowance used in LWWE's accounts yields a
factor of 3.1% p.a. (equivalent to an average asset life of 32 years). Asset values
were last adjusted in December 1992; but, it is recommended that a more
comprehensive revaluation should be conducted in the next two to three years in order
to provide a more realistic reflection of the replacement value and actual condition of
the assets;
(b)    Ongoing Investment - the aerobasin facilities which are under construction at the
WWTP are expected to come into operation in 1995 with an asset value of Lats 1.09
million (US$ 1.0 million).
In addition, it is assumed that modest investment in the sewerage network will
continue throughout the projection period amounting to Lats 30,000 per year. The
latter was inflated at the projected inflation rate (see Item 2) to reflect the actual cost
in the future. Ongoing investment in sewerage water supply assets is assumed to have
an asset life of 30 years;
(c)    Proposed Project - for the new assets, the depreciation allowance was calculated on a
straight-line basis without annual revaluation and assuming an average asset life of 30
years.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 8
36.   Interest Charges reflect the full on-lending conditions for the repayment of the World Bank
loan: (a) interest rate 10% p.a.; (b) repayment period 17 years; and (c) 4 years grace period. The
debt repayment profiles for the water supply and sewerage components are presented in Table 2.
37.   Turnover Tax is set at 18% of the revenue from institutional and industrial consumers.
38.   Profit Tax is set at 35% of net income after the payment of turnover tax.
D.    Balance Sheet - Combined Statement (Table 4)
39.   Accounts Receivable have increased as a proportion of billed revenue in the last three years
from 0.05% in 1991 to 29.2% in 1992; and 23.5% in 1993. The following levels have been assumed
in the financial projections: 25% in 1994 and 1995; 20% in 1996; and 17% (i.e. 2 months of
revenue) from 1997 onwards.
40.   Inventories are set at 1.5% of fixed assets in operation from 1994 onwards.
41.   Long term debt consists of future borrowing less principal repayments. The conditions for
the World Bank loan are set out in Item 20.
42.   Accounts Payable have fluctuated as a proportion of operating expenses in the last three years
from 12.6% in 1991 to 18.6% in 1992 and 9.1% in 1993. These are likely to increase again in the
short term. The following levels have been assumed: 20% in 1994 and 1995; and 17% (i.e. 2
months of operating expenses) from 1996 onwards.
E.    Sources and Application of Funds - Combined Statement (Table 5)
43.   Loans represent borrowing from the World Bank credit according to the proposed financing
plan and the requirements of the proposed investment schedule.
44.   Applications of capital expenditure represent the planned phasing of the proposed Phase 1
investment program (1995-1999).
45.   Debt service represents payment of the principal and interest due on the World Bank loan as
presented in Table 2.
46.   NEFCO dividend payments are assumed at 10% p.a. on equity holding.



LWOtA WAIM SPLYuY uvsia - EVE?6E AND Etepon  sTAIAEr fA wo asma
Ad      -'-                                                               Pbudb,
Cm     w                                                   191       1092      1036    1W04        190      lS        107       19        19       2000      201
TOTAL POPLATION                      1U4.S    113.6    1O&3                             106.      106.0    10s.0    1Oe.O    106.0    106.0    108.0    106.0
Semi byWSME
*FdClnn.cGm                                                                    07.2      96.1     90.1      96.1   e 6.0   e      .o    .9W.0   W0.0    101.5
_ 6    a0.9                                                                              0.0      0.9       0.9       0.4       0.0       0.0       00       0.0
TO.4Sffedbr WUEso                                            0.0       0.0     9.1          o      9w.0    9w.0       900.      W0        900       W     -.0  113
Pmpom, S.wd                                                  0.0      0.0      90.6      tl.7      91.7      01.7      91.7      01.7     917       91.7      93.6
WATM SLawPLY CONNECTCN
-Fun Cordm                               (..               2106     2305      2604      2662
-Shaipipo.(n.
Iilu.d                                                      140       142       146       163
hdmm                                                        237       301       360       423
oblater W       Cndons                                    2575      2 .330 242                      0           
DOMAESUC  aNUT2
ATiP  rC         C                                                              160       166      150       160       160       160       160      160       150
AveeHo_             SIe                                      3..)  32  3.2      3.1       3.2       3.2       3.2      34        32        s2        3.        S
WVA I PR OUAtA. I JN                     (3MUn                                 I04        0.      A1.        1u.4     1.4       1.        104        0.
BtLED WATER SALES
d keeUc                                  (inS m3mon)         7.5      6.3       5.7       5.7       5.7       5.6      6.6       5.e       5.6       5.6       6.6
hfrAdo,u                                 (m3 nIMo            1.2      1.4       1.2       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3
hidutdzal                                (n3munI             1 2      1.1       0.5       o.5       o 5       0o.      0.6         5       0.5       0.5       0.5
T          SW"                           i                   Io)  10.  6.9      7.5       7.        7.6       7.6       7.6      7.6       7         i 7.6     7.7
NON4tEVEWUE WATER           p       ^         M(S                               2.9       2 6       2.6       2.6      2.8       2.        2.6       2.6       2.7
Pronortbon d NRW                         f%)                                   27.9      27.4      27.2      20.6     26.6      26.6      26 6      26.6      25.7
(lbnS)            0.04      1.27      3.70      6.00      .00     10.00     11.4      12.70     13.59    14.54     15.65
ki.ibdogw                                (Lcbhn3e           0.12     2.79      6.76      s.u      11.30     13.00    1391      1492      1597      17.09     16.26
_~duob.I                               (Lo                0.01      4.67     14.80     16.75    19.26     21.19     22ne      24.25    25.71     27.25     26.e9
1994 PRICES
Onedo                                     0                       _     e                6.00      6.s0      7.91     6.67      6.r7      6.s6      6.94      .902
hwdoios.                                 (Lc                                             9.44      0.63     10.26    10.16     10 30     10.40     10.50     10.60
_  4"                                          16.75    16.75     16.75     16.75     16.75     16.75    16.75     16.75
Donge.*                                                    3,3      80.4    2125      342.0    456s2 5.             64.e      734.3    765.7    640.7    914.7
- kw&"                                                      1.4      40.2     60.7    120.6    144.4       166.1    177.8    190.7    204.1    216.4    233.6
* bid.                                                      7.6      52.7      61.1      91.6    105.6    116.1    125.4    132.9    140.         149.3    156.3
TdlO     _ ope m Rnw                                        12Z4     173.     s74.2     6u.4    706.2        o.s   -s7.7      l         11S0.7   1206.4    Isce.
VIPERAT540 EXPENSES 
sehale TN                                                    20      24.1      60.0     m0        116.0    12a6.     13e.6    144.6    1536        1927      172.
LaM, t w                                                     0.7      19.5     42.2       4.0      73.6      61.0     67.4      6.7       96.2    104.1      110.4
mft_. R     _.i    . a_                                      Z2        6.4     61.0      szo       59.       es.6     71.0      75.3      79.       64.6     W9.7
El ",-W                                                      3.3     62.0      70        72.6      95.1    119.2    146.7    177.2    214.1        26.6    274.1
Ne-                                                          0.1      3.7       7.7       U        1.7        4.2      5.        7.1       7.        6o        6S
M_mhhu NWpUee                                                0.1      0.6       7.6      10        1.4       20.2     21.6      23.2      24.6      26o       21.
_ _em   _ea       o                                          06      19.6      s9.4      76.0      67.4      96.7    104.4    110.7    117.3    124.3    131.6
T    _e a                                                    0M0       1.3      62        6          o       10.6      12.6     14.7      15.6      16S       171
om.                                                          0.7      3.7      10.3      1         17.2      20.6     24.8      26.3      27.6      2s.5      31.3
0.4 O                                                                                    66.4      70.6      43.0     40.4      26.4      2.3       30.2     32.7                        O Q
TW C'h E'pi                                                  9.9    143.3    315.5    46.1    568.9    56ea1         660.4    9064       706.7    644.6  -       93                       C)
Deare_m                                                      1.6      3.0      23.7      29.0      61.5      71.4     74o0      75.2      76.5      77.3     76.1                         \ P
qpeasing h,omnae P.&Q                                       o0.7     27.0      S5.0    e6s 3        0.0    200.s    253.3      24.4    2675.    266.6       3s32.
hilled 01mg..                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~20.6  48.2  56.0  57.4  56.0  562  55.0
0.7     27.0      35 0      603       90.1    152.7    107.3    227.0    220.6    226.3    276.
Tw,wTm                                                                 7.3     21.9      26        34.2      39.0      41.6     44.7      47.7      51.0      64.4
Pll Tm                                                                                             122       3.0      54.4      63.6      63.6      62.1     77 6
Not iwonia    sitar ~ T   s                                  07       19.7     13.i      31.4      27        73.0    101.     118.5     16i.2    115.S3     44.
Woah  Rdb                                 Ni                6o.1      62.7     64.3      63.9      7e.6      6.3      e6.0      66.0      67.6      es.0      68.6
Opb9 Ra                                  ()                 94.7     84.4     0o.6       69.1      67.3      76.6     74.4      73.1      74.6      76.3     74.5
PaMilM Megh (le. P.O                     (                   5.3     11.4       3.5       5.7       4.9      13.2     15.7      17.2      U1        14.7      17.0
Av. MM Fond A  ob InO _wd                g
Pale d Reuman
A       R _ pe Unit Bald                      m            0.125     1.950    5.002     7.36a     9.375    1'.10    12.983    13.W6    14Te.2    is.eu  1-.95
AvelagCoed prd Ur eOW                    09b"              0.116    1.64      4.536     6.565     8.461     9.302    10.300    10.923    11.644    1z.a6    1s.36
Ass Cod VW Lin Pauced                          S2                                    71 4.7e5     &'s       6.25     7.622     8.014     6.e90     9.451    0932



LIEPAA SEWERAGE SYSTEM - REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT (Lat 000)
Actual                Est.                                                  ProctdknS
1991      1992      1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001
TOTA L ATION                              (000)             114.9    113.8      108.3     108.0    108.0      108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0
Served by Sewerge                         (000)              97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      97.0      98.1
Pmportion Served                          (%)                84.4      S5.2      89.6      89.8      89.6      89.8      69.8      89.8      89.8      69.8      90.8
SEWER CONNECTIONS
Domeic                                    (n.)              2509      2711       3115      3163
1titutine                                 (no.)               140      142        146       153
Inlustry                                  (.)                251       315        394       437
Total Sevvsr Conneclionts                 (nos.)--          2900      3168       3655      3753        0          0        0         0         0         0         0
TEWXGEVAThR V0LURES-
Donwmeic                                  (m3 millon)         8.8       6.5       6.0       5.7       5.7       5.8       5.8       5.8       5.J       58        5.9
husliulkn                                 (m3 million)        1.2       1.5       1.2       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3
Indudry - flows not to WWTW               (m3 million)        1.2       0.6       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.2       0.2       0.1       0.1       0.0       0.0
- flows to WWTW                    (m3 million)        4.7       4.0       2.5       2.6       2.7       2.8       2.9       3.1       3.2       3.3       3.4
[SEWERAkGE CltAGEf
CURRENT PRICES
Oonmeic                                   (LWs/m3)           0.03      0.86      2.54      5.15      7.70     11.15     15.60     17.32     1922      21.34     22.62
hsltutknm                                 (Lcts/m3)          0.62      1.55      4.10      9.26     12.50     15.60     17.90     19.87     22.05     24.48     25.86
kndu*y.flovsnottoWWTW                     (Lctsm3)           0.75      1.75      7.37     11.23     15.20     17.50     20.10     22.31     24.77     27.49     29.14
-Ibwlo WWTW                        (Ictd/m3)          0.63      2.54      9.79     14.00     17.80     20.50     23.60     2620      29.08     3228      3421
1994 PRICES
Domestic                                  (Ltsm3)                                          5.15      6.70      8.81     11.42     11.96     12.52     13.11     13.11
Istuions                                  (Lcsim3)                                         9.26     10.87     12.33     13.10     13.72     14.37     15.04     15.04
Indutiry- flovs not to WWTW               (Lchtm3)                                        11.23     1322      13.83     14.71     15.41     16.13     16.89     16.89
- lows to WWTW                     (Lcsnm3)                                        14.00     15.48     16.21     1727      18.09     18.94     19A4      19.4
IOPERATING REVENUI
Billed Sewag Charge
* DomeiW                                                      2.4      55.4     151.7    293.6    441.1       644.7    902.0   10012    1111.3    1233.6   1329.5
- stIuions                                                    7.2      22.7      48.7     118.3    159.8      199.4    228.8    253.8      281A      3129      331.6
Idusty -  nows  hto WWTW                                      9.1      11.0      22.6      33.7      45.6      35.0      40.2      22.3      24.8       0.0       0.0
-fkwnhtoWWTW                                          29.6     101.5     244.0     364.0    480.6    574.0    684.4    812.1         930.5    1065.1    1163.2
Sewer Connections
Others
Tota Operating Revenue                                       48.3     190.6     466.9     809.6   1127.0   1453.1    1855.4   2089.5   2348.4   2611.6   2824.4
IOPERATNG EXPENSES
Saries and Wages                                              5.4      56.8     134.3    186.4    214.4       235.      254.7     2699      286.1     303.3    321.S
Nahal Resouroe Charges                                       31.6      18.0      80.7     105.3    124.6      138.5    153.6      168.6     183.4     196.0    2132
Electricity                                                   1.7      35.1      41.1      46.3      60.7      85.3    116.4    154.5       2033      265.7    281.6
Heatln                                                        02        5.6      11.       13.0      16S       12.0      15.7      20.1      21.3      22.6      239
matrl end Supplbe                                             0.1       0.6       3.1       8.0       92       10.1      10.9      11.6      123       13.0      13.8
Repairs d Maintenne                                           12       36.0     114.0     116.0    133.4      154.3    174.4    1932        208.7     2255      239.0
Tmnspodt                                                      0.3       52       11.7      15.4      195       23.6      28.0      32.7      34.6      36.7      389
Cownnetonsn
Othr                                                          1.2       3.2       7.1       9.3      11.       14.3      17.0      18.0      19.0      202       21A
Bad Debts                                                                                  81.0    112.7       72.7     92.8      52.2      58.7      65.3      70.6          (IQ      Z
Total Cash Exqpn                                             41.8     160.5     4039      580.8    702.7      7465      863.5    920.8    10275    1148.2    1223.9                 C  Z
DeprecIaion                                                   3.3       5.4      42.5      43.5    165.5    239.0    316.6    366.0         417.8     419.7    421.8
Operating hIcome (Derc)                                       3.2      24.       20.5    185.4    258.6       467.6    675.3    802.7       9032    1043.6    1178.7
kdae chag                                                                                            52A      149.7    2383       311.0    368.4    397.8a       8.
Net him, (Defici)                                             32       24.6      20.5     185.4     2051      317.1    437.0    491.7    534.8        6451      7972                1
TurfoW TaM                                                              6s       29.6      731      101.0     120.6    144.0    165.5    189.7        212.6    230.7
Proml TaX                                                                                  38.0      36.7      69.1     102.5    114.1      120.6     151.6     198.3
Not ncofmsIWelcsair Taxes                                     3.2      15.8      -9.1      72.4      68.2     128.2     104       2.0        2.3      281.5    368.2
1FWNACIAL INDICATOR5T
Woddn Ratio                               ()                 g6s        42       88.       71.7      62.4      61.4      46.5      44.1      43.a      44.0      433
Opering Ratio                             (%)                93.4      87.0      95.6      77.1      77.0      67.       63.6      61.A      61.5      60.0      583
PflMargln(bom Pnf1tT                      (%)                 6.8       6.3      -119      13a        9.3      13.6      15.8      15.6      14.7      16.6      20.1
Av. Net Fbtd Asets in Opeaion             (Lifs)
Rate o( Return                            (%)



LIEPAJA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS - COMBINED REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT (Lats 000, CurTent)
Actual               Est.                                               Projections
Cornport                                              1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000      2001
ICOMBINED OPERATING REVENIIE
WATER SUPPLY
BEd Water Sas
. Domntk                                               3.3      80.4    212.5    342.0    458.2    578.2    684.7    734.4    785.8    840.8    914.8
-nsIuions                                             1.4      40.2     80.7    120.6    144.4    166.1    177.8    190.7    204.1    218.4    233.7
-tdtrbl                                                7.6      52.7     81.1      91.8    105.6    116.1    125.4    132.9    140.9    149.3    158.3
Water Comednins
Other
Sub-Total: Water Suppl                                 12.4    173.3    374.2    554.4    708.2    860.5    987.9   1058.1   1130.8   1208.6   1306.8
SEWERAGE
Bled Sewerage Charges
-Domestic                                              2.4      55.4    151.7    293.6    441.1    644.7    902.0   1001.2   1111.3   1233.6   1329.5
'-stitutIons                                          7.2      22.7     48.7    118.3    159.8    199.4    228.8    253.9    281.9    312.9    331.6
-hdust   -Treated                                      9.1      11.0     22.6      33.7     45.6      35.0     40.2      22.3      24.8      0.0       0.0
.Untreated                                  29.6    101.5    244.0    364.0    480.6    574.0    684.4    812.1    930.5   1065.1   1163.2
Sewer Connectona
Other
Sub-Total: Sewerage                                    48.3    190.6    466.9    809.6   1127.0   1453.1   1855.4   2089.5    2,'8.4   2611.6   2824.4
Total Operating Revenue                                60.7    363.9    841.1   1364.0   1835.2   2313.5   2843.2   3147.6   3479.3   3820.1   4131.2
t5PERATIING EPENSES
Saries and Wages                                        7.3     80.9    194.3    286.4    329.4    362.3    391.3    414.8    439.6    466.0    494.0
Launa Waler                                             0.7     19.5      42.2     64.0      73.6     81.0      87.4     92.7      98.2    104.1    110.4
Natural Resources Charges                              34.0     26.4    131.7    157.3    184.4    204.2    224.7    243.9    263.2    280.6    302.9
Eectrcidy                                               5.0     97.1    113.2    118.9    155.8    204.6    263.2    331.7    417.3    524.2    565.7
HeathV                                                  0.3      9.3      19.6     21.5      27.2     16.2      21.2     27.2      28.8     30.5      32.4
Materials and Suppries                                  0.2      1.5      10.7     24.0      27.6     30.4      32.8     34.8      36.8     39.1      41.4
Repaka and Maintenance                                  2.0     55.6    173.4    192.0    220.8    250.9    278.8    303.9    326.1    349.8    370.8
Transport                                               0.3      6.5      16.9     22.3      28.3     34.2      40.6     47.4      50.2      53.2     56.4
Connection Cost                                         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                                                  1.9      6.9      17.4     22.9      29.0     35.1      41.7     44.2      46.9      49.7     52.7
Bad Debts                                               0.0      0.0       0.0    136.4    183.5    115.7    142.2       78.7      87.0     95.5    103.3
Total Cash Expenses                                    51.7    303.8    719.4   1045.8   1259.6   1334.6   1523.9   1619.2   1794.2   1992.8   2119.8
DepreclatIon                                            5.1      8.3      66.2     72.5    227.0    310.4    390.6    441.3    494.3    497.0    499.9
Operating Iome (Defici)                                 3.8     51.8      55.5    245.7    348.6    668.5    928.7   1087.2   1190.8   1330.4   1511.5
Interest Charges                                                                             73.6    197.9    294.3    368.4    426.4    456.0    437.4
Net Inome (Derick)                                      3.8     51.8      55.5    245.7    275.0    470.6    634.4    718.7    764.4    874.4   1074.1
Tumover Tax                                                     16.2      51.5    102.8    135.3    159.5    185.7    210.2    237.4    263.7    285.1
Profit Tax                                                                                   48.9    108.9    157.0    178.0    184.5    213.7    276.1
Net Income (Dericit) after Taxes                        3.8     35.6       4.1    142.9      90.8    202.2    291.6    330.5    342.6    396.9    512.8
Wouli Ratb                 N(%)                        85.2     83.5      85.5     76.7      68.6     57.7      53.6     61.4      61.6     52.2      51.3
Operating Ratio             (%                         93.7     85.8      93.4     82.0      81.0     71.1      67.3     65.5      65.8     65.2      63.4
ProfitMargin(aftertax)      (%)                         6.3      9.8       0.5     10.5       7.6     13.4      15.8     16.2      15.1     16.0      19.1
Av. Net Fbad Asets In Operation  (Lats)
Ralt of Return
t3K5l



LIEPAJA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT - WORLD BANK DEBT REPAYMENT PROFILE
LATS 000                                                 USS 000
Year                           Debt Repayment                                           Debt Repayment
Loan   Interest  Principal  Total     Loan               Loan   Interest  Principal   Total     Loan
Charges                        Debt                      Charges                         Debt
|COMBINED          l
1995              1104.1     55.2       0.0     55.2   1104.1              1937.1      96.9      0.0      96.9   1937.1
1996              760.3    148.4        0.0    148.4   1864.4              1333.8    260.4       0.0    260.4   3270.9
1997              686.4    220.8        0.0    220.8   2550.8              1204.2    387.3       0.0    387.3   4475.0
1998              424.8    276.3        0.0    276.3   2975.6               745.3    484.8       0.0    484.8   5220.3
1999              444.4    319.8        0.0    319.8   3420.0               779.7    561.0       0.0    561.0   6000.0
2000                        342.0    139.5    481.5   3280.5                          600.0    244.7    844.7   5755.3
2001                        328.1    153.4    481.5   3127.1                          575.5    269.1    844.7   5486.2
2002                        312.7    168.7    481.5   2958.4                          548.6    296.1    844.7   5190.1
2003                        295.8    185.6    481.5   2772.8                          519.0    325.7    844.7   4864.5
2004                        277.3    204.2    481.5   2568.6                          486.4    358.2    844.7   4506.3
2005                        256.9    224.6    481.5   2344.0                          450.6    394.0    844.7   4112.2
2006                        234.4    247.1    481.5   2096.9                          411.2    433.4    844.7   3678.8
2007                        209.7    271.8    481.5   1825.1                          367.9    476.8    844.7   3202.0
2008                        182.5    299.0    481.5   1526.2                          320.2    524.5    844.7   2677.5
2009                        152.6    328.8    481.5   1197.3                          267.7    576.9    844.7   2100.6
2010                        119.7    361.7    481 5      835.6                        210.1    634.6    844.7   1466.0
2011                         83.6    397.9    481.5    437.7                          146.6    698.1    844.7    767.9
2012                         43.8    437.7    481.5       -0.0                         76.8    767.9    844.7        0.0
TOTAL COMBINED        3420.0   3859.5   3420.0   7279.5                         6000.0   6771.1   6000.0  12771.1
eQ z
ml~



UEPAJA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS - SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS (Lats 000, current)
Actual     Est                                                  Projectons
Component                                               1993      1994     1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000      2001     2002
SOURCES OF FUNDS I
NetIncomebeforelnterest&afterTax                         4.1    142.9    158.0    382.8    559.6    666.2    731.1    812.4    911.3   1017.1
Depreciaton                                             66.2      72.5    227.0    310.4    390.6    441.3    494.3    497.0    499.9    502.9
Internal Cash Flow                                      70.3    215.4    385.0    693.2    950.2   1107.4   1225.3   1309.4   1411.2   1520.0
LOANS AND GRANTS
World Bank Loan                                                           1104.1    760.3    686.4    424.8    444.4
Sweden                                                                    1288.1    887.0    800.7    495.6    518.5
NEFC                                                                       276.0    190.1    171.6    106.2    111.1
EEC Phare                                                                   18.4     12.7      11.4       7.1       7.4
Local Contrbution                                                          742.5    511.3    461.6    285.7    298.9
Others                                                  95.4    190.4   1093.4
Total Loans and Grants                                   95.4    190.4   4522.6   2361.3   2131.7   1319.4   1380.3           0.0      0.0       0.0
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                  165.7    405.8   4907.6   3054.5   3081.9   2426.8   2605.6   1309.4   1411.2   1520.0
|APPLICATION OF FUNDS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Phase 1 Project                                                           3797.2   2614.7   2360.5   1460.9   1528.4
Other nvestments                                         95.4    190.4   1154.3       65.0     69.3      73.5      77.9      82.5     87.5      92.7
Total Capital Expendibtre                                95.4    190.4   4951.5   2679.7   2429.8   1534.4   1606.3          82.5     87.5      92.7
DEBT SERVICE
World Bank Loan
Prinipal Repayment                                                                                                         139.5    153.4    168.7
Interest Repayment                                                         55.2    148.4    220.8    276.3    319.8    342.0    328.1    312.7
Total World Bank Loan                                     0.0      0.0      55.2    148.4    220.8    276.3    319.8    481.5    481.5    481.5
DMDEND PAYMENT
NEFC                                                                        13.8      37.1     55.2      69.1      79.9      85.5     85.5      85.5
WORKING CAPITAL                                          70.3    116.6    207.6    408.1    545.6    627.6    677.4    538.9    634.9    737.7
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                              165.7    307.0   5228.1   3273.3   3251.3   2507.4   2683.4   1188.4   1289.3   1397.4
,,;0 t



UEPA1A WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS - BALANCE SHEET (Laf 000, acxent)
Actual                Eat                                                   Projection.
Component                                      1991      1992      1993       1994     1995       1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
IASSETS I
FIXED ASSETS
FicedAssetsnOperation                          204.9   2060.0   2136.6    2327.0   7007.8    9536.7  11966.4  13500.9   15107.2   15189.7   15277.2
Less: Accumudated Deprecation                   94.7    934.3   1003.1    1075.6   1302.6    1613.0   2003.7   2444.9   2939.2   3436.1    3936.0
NotFixedAssetsinOperation                      110.2    1125.7   1133.5    1251.4   5705.2    7923.6   9962.8  11056.0  12168.0   11753.6   11341.2
Work-in-Progress                                                    95.4     160.4
TotalFixedAssets                               110.2    1125.7   1228.8    1411.8   5705.2    7923.6   9962.8  11056.0  12168.0   11753.6   11341.2
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Bank                                   15.0       3.2      52.7     213.1     275.4     612.2    1141.8   1711.5   2338.7    2852.7    3455.6
Accounts Receivable                              0.0     106.3     197.5     341.0    458.8      462.7    473.8    524.6       579.8    636.6      688.5
Inventory                                        2.4       7.3      78.5      34.9    105.1      143.0    179.5    202.5       226.6     227.8     229.2
Others
TotalCurrentAssets                              17.4     116.8    328.6      589.0    839.3    1218.0   1795.1   2438.6   3145.1    3717.2    4373.2
TOTAL ASSETS                                   127.6   1242.4   1557.4   2000.8   6544.5    9141.6   11757.9  13494.5  15313.1   15470.8   15714.4
EQUITY AND LlABILITIES
EQUITY CAPITAL
Capital                                        110.8     127.8    264.0      424.4   2824.5    3724.2   4536.4   5039.1    5565.0    5565.0    5565.0
Revaluabon Reserve                                       997.9    997.9      997.9    997.9      997.9    997.9    997.9       997.9     997.9     997.9
Other Reserves                                  10.3      47.3    235.1      333.8    722.0    1243.5   1930.5   2475.6    3035.6    3346.3    3773.6
Profit (Loss)                                                       -4.9
NEFC Holding                                                                           276.0     466.1     637.7    743.9      855.0     855.0     855.0
Total Capital                                  121.1    1173.0   1492.1    1756.0   4820.4    6431.6   8102.4   9256.4   10453.4  10764.1   11191.4
DEBT LIABILITIES
World Bank Loan                                                                       1104.1    1864.4   2550.8   2975.6    3420.0    3280.5    3127.1
Other Loans
Total Debt Uability                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   1104.1    1864.4   2550.8   2975.6    3420.0    3280.5   3127.1
CURRENT UABIUTIES
AccountB Payable                                 6.5      56.4      65.3     209.2    251.9      222.5    254.0    269.9    299.1        332.2     353.4
Oers                                                      13.0
Total Current Uabiles                            6.5      69.4      65.3     209.2    251.9      222.5    254.0    269.9    299.1        332.2     353.4
TOTAL EQUITYAND UABILUTIES                     127.6   1242.4   1557.4    1965.2   6176.5    8518.5  10907.2  12501.9  14172.5  14376.8   14671.9
'El'



ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 15
II. NOTES ON TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS
47.    For the water supply system - in order to achieve a profit margin of 15 percent (before
payment of profit tax) by 1997, it is estimated that domestic water tariffs should increase by at least
35 percent in 1995, 25 percent in 1996 and 20 percent in 1997 - all in terms of current prices.
Therefore, domestic water tariffs are expected to increase by 100 percent in the next three years from
an average of Lats 0.06 (US$ 0.10) per m3 in 1994 to Lats 0.12 (US$ 0.21) per m3 in 1997. The
required increase in terms of constant prices (i.e. excluding inflation) is 46 percent, from Lats 0.06
per m3 in 1994 to Lats 0.0878 (US$ 0.15) per m3 in 1997.
48.    For the sewerage system, the general rise in charges is more marked because 87 percent of
the proposed investment is allocated to the sewerage component. Therefore, the sewerage charges for
domestic users are projected to rise by 50 percent in 1995, 45 percent in 1996, and 40 percent in
1997 at current prices. The unit tariff will rise by 200 percent from Lats 0.0515 (US$ 0.09) per m3
in 1994 to Lats 0.156 (US$ 0.27) per m3 in 1997. In constant prices, the real increase is 120 percent
from 1994 to 1997.






Annex 2
ACTION PLAN






ANNEX 2
Page I
LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
Liepaja State Water Supplv Enterprise
A.    Introduction
1.    The management of Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise (LWWE) has
decided to initiate the preparation and implementation of an Action Plan to
improve LWWE's operational, commercial, and financial performance, to the
enterprise to:
a) improve the quality of its services;
b) internally generate funds to finance its operations, maintenance and
infrastructure improvements; and
c) service the repayment of loans from the World Bank and the Nordic
Environmental Finance Corporation (NEFCO).
2.    A number of actions are needed to enable LWWE to achieve its objectives are
specified in this Action Plan. Issues and needs of specific importance that
require special attention have been identified, and these include: (a) the
working framework between Liepaja City Council and LWWE; (b) a long-
term enterprise strategy; (c) tariff level and structure; (d) need of operational
management assistance; (e) service quality; (f) revenue collection; (g)
recording and budgetary processes; (h) accounting systems and principles; (i)
LWWE's functional structure; and 0) revision of position descriptions,
including that of the director.
B.    Actions to be Taken
3.    The LWWE would undertake the following activities under the Action Plan:
(a) Estblishment of an Autonomous Utility. Development of an efficient,
consistent and reliable framework for cooperation between the Liepaja
City Council and LWWE. The framework should be such, that truly
autonomous management of LWWE would be possible. This proposed
framework would be prepared by A. Dejus and G. Viksna on or before
July 1. I9. It is anticipated that the implementation of the framework
would be completed on or before December 31. 1997.
(b) Enterprise Strategy. A long term enterprise strategy would be prepared,
including projected future capital investment programs and policies for



ANNEX 2
Page 2
elimination of defects, quality improvement, tariffs, revenue collection and
organizational improvements. This would include the preparation of a
management program that would identify tasks, allocate resources and
staff responsibilities and set quantified performance targets. A draft
strategy would be completed by A. Dejus on or before July 1, 1997.
(c) Contracting of Management Assistance. This Action Plan would be
implemented with the help of a twinning arrangement with Norrkoping
Water and Wastewater Enterprise (NWWE). Terms of reference for the
twinning arrangement have been developed in coordination with the World
Bank. A. Dejus would be responsible for formalizing the contract on or
before January 1, 1995.
(d) Performance Standards. Developing a set of quality standards for each
service. It is understood that it is neither financially nor technically
feasible to immediately adopt corresponding European Union
environmental standards but it is expected that a program of target dates
for phased implementation of these higher standards should form part of
LWWE's strategy. This set of phased quality standards goals would be
developed by Z. Uskure on or before January 1. 1998. For this particular
project, the Project Monitoring Guidelines (Attachment 1) would be
utilized in accordance with the World Bank Project Agreement.
(e) Bill Collection. Improving revenue collection by taking control of
collection systems, pressuring defaulters, obtaining additional authority for
debt recovery through the court system and providing incentives to
customers who pay promptly. A plan would be developed by Z. Niedola
on or before December 1. 1997.
(f) Budgetary and Account Systems. Improve all recording and budgetary
processes and systems of accounting. This would include staff and work
plans and budget centers and monthly reviews. New computerized
systems would be introduced in conjunction with extensive training to
relevant staff. it is the responsibility of I. Kozlovska to see that the new
systems are in place on or before January 1, 1998. In addition, a new set
of accounting principles should be drawn up to define capital and revenue
terms, to codify transactions by their type and to provide clear procedures.
These principles would be formulated while setting up the new accounting
systems and would be expected to be finalized on or before
January 1. 1998.
(g) New Tariff Schedule. Preparation of a new tariff schedule, based on a
detailed tariff study by an international consultant, and implementation of
the recommendations of the study. The tariff schedule would be expected
to be constructed to: (i) recover LWWE's capital and operational and
maintenance costs; (ii) encourage customers to conserve water; and (iii) be
affordable. The tariff structure should be optimized in terms of user



ANNEX 2
Page 3
categories, tariff incrementality and standing charges. The study would
determine the minimum tariff adjustments required to repay the World
Bank and NEFCO loans in real terms as shown in attached table Liepaja:
Proposed Tariff Rates (Attachment 2). The tariff study would be carried
out by A. Tetere and be completed on or before January 1, 1996. In the
meantime, the attached tariff adjustment schedule would be utilized as a
guideline for regional adjustments.
(h) LWWE Organization and Staff Structure. The functional structure of
LWWE would be revised to take account of new and/or modified
functions and to improve the pattern of managerial control. A manpower
plan would be prepared to clarify responsibilities, define skill
requirements and initiate staff development and recruitment systems. This
would be completed by A. Tetere on or before July 1, 1997.
(i) Position Descriptions. The position descriptions for LWWE, including
that of the Director, should be revised to more accurately reflect current
and planned functions and duties of the posts. The revision would be
completed by A. Leismanis on or before January 1, 1997.
C.    Environmental Monitoring
4.     Environrmental Monitoring. LWWE would establish, in coordination with
the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development, Regional Environmental
Office and the Liepaja Municipal Environmental Office, an environmental monitoring
program to evaluate the performance of the collection system, treatment processes and
status of receiving waters. This would be completed by S. Jacicenko on or before
January 1, 1997.






Annex 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A: TWINNING ARRANGEMENT
B: TARIFF STUDY






ANNEX 3A
Page I
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for "Twinning Arrangement"
Background
1.    The Baltic coast of Latvia is characterized by a smooth coastline dominated by beaches backed
by sand dunes, forests and coastal wetlands. It has two major cities -- Ventspils to the north, which is
a major transhipment port for hydrocarbons and chemical exports for Russia, and Liepaja to the south,
which has a naval base, commercial port, fishing harbor, and a mix of industries and recreational
beaches.
2.    At present, the sustainable use of the existing water resources is threatened by adverse effects
resulting from the discharge of under-treated municipal and industrial wastewater. The City of Liepaja
is now discussing with the World Bank, the Nordic Environmental Finance Corporation (NEFCO) and
the Governments of Finland and Sweden, potential funding of investments for technical, financial and
institutional improvements of its water and wastewater services. These discussions are based on
detailed technical, financial and institutional studies assessing the situation of Liepaja Water and
Wastewater Enterprise (LWWE) and providing the company with recommendations of potential
improvements. These studies have been prepared by Sir William Halcrow Consultants (UK), financed
by the European Union (EU) PHARE Program, and were completed in June 1994.
3.    When planning for the implementation of possible improvements in water and wastewater
services in Liepaja, it is important to bear in mind, that water and sewerage services in the country
have only recently been decentralized from state responsibility to the responsibility of the appropriate
municipalities. Therefore, water and sewerage facilities are not yet autonomous in accordance with
market-oriented management practices but are still centrally managed and function as direct extensions
of municipal govemments. One of the principal obstacles in promoting the creation of autonomous
enterprises which could provide cost-effective, affordable municipal services, is the municipalities'
lack of experience in market-oriented operational and financial management practices. Consequently,
in order to facilitate the development of the utility into an autonomous, service-oriented and efficiently
run enterprise with modern management practices, external support is required. As a part of the
proposed Liepaja Environment Project, it is recommended that an organized Twinning Arrangement
between LWWE and a reputable foreign water supply and sewerage company be formed in order to
achieve the overall project objectives. This document sets out the terms of reference for such an
arrangement.



ANNEX 3A
Page 2
Objectives
4.    The main objective of this Twinning Arrangement would be to improve LWWE's overall
performance through changes in it's operational and financial management practices. These changes
would be in accordance with an Action Plan, which would be developed by LWWE and agreed by the
Bank. The overall objective of the Action Plan would be to define and formulate a strategic vision of
the short- and long-term future of the company in terms of its operations, legal identity, organizational
setup and financial condition. A particularly important objective for this task would be to provide
LWWE with a commercial attitude and a sense of service directed at providing the best water supply
possible to its customers at an affordable cost without further municipal or government subsidies in the
future.
Scope of Work
5.    The twinning partner, in close coordination with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), would
support and assist LWWE to implement the Action Plan, specifically with regard to institutional
strengthening and human resources development. This coordination would take place during the first
three years of the proposed project implementation period. Following this term, the "new" LWWE
would be expected to operate in accordance with modern utility management practices and be fully
equipped with computerized management information systems. The twinning partner would bring to
LWWE, state-of-the-art know-how in utility management, administration and operation.
Workinf Arrangements
6.    All activities and tasks under this arrangement are intended to be carried out in close
coordination of both parties. Counterpart systems would be applied whenever appropriate and the
participation of a maximum number of LWWE staff would be emphasized. The twinning partner
would: provide advisors recruited from its own staff and/or outside the utility; provide minor
equipment; and subcontract consultants as and when necessary. In subcontracting and procuring of
equipment and software, the twinning partner would follow the guidelines of the World Bank for the
use of Consulting Services. The selection of consultants would be done jointly with LWWE.
Cooperation under this Twinning Arrangement would be regarded as a binding agreement between the
two parties. A contract specifying duties, responsibilities, and fees and expenses, would be established
and agreed between the LWWE and the twinning partner. Both parties would nominate a twinning
coordinator to be jointly responsible for the execution of the agreement. This contract and its
execution would be supervised by the PIU and World Bank supervision missions. Cooperation would
be initiated by drafting and agreeing upon a specified work plan which would include a detailed time
schedule and budget. The work plan, time schedule and budget would be cleared by the PIU and
submitted to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank.
Reporting
7.    The Twinning Arrangement would follow the same reporting requirements as the PIU. The
twinning coordinators would be jointly responsible for preparing annual financial reports and annual



ANNEX 3A
Page 3
progress reports for each activity included under the twinning agreement. These reports would be
cleared by the PIU and submitted to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank.
Main Tasks
8.    The main task of the twinning partner is to further refine and improve LWWE's Action
Plan/Business Plan in order to create a Ion-term strategic vision of the future of the company. The
operational experience and knowledge of the twinning partner, including administrative, organizational
and financial competencies would be transferred to LWWE through support in the following three
main areas: (a) Formulation and implementation of all Management and Administration Procedures
and Systems; (b) Formulation and implementation of a program for System Rehabilitation and
Operational Improvements; and (c) Formulation and implementation of a Training Program.
(a) Manaiement and Administrative Procedures and Systems
(i)  Objective: The main objective of this component would be to improve existing, and
implement new management and information/administrative procedures and systems
within LWWE to assist with the transformation of the company into an efficiently
run entity. An important objective would be to provide LWWE with a commercial
attitude and a sense of service aimed toward providing the best water supply possible
to its customers. The tasks within this component would provide the means to
achieve those objectives.
(ii)  Scope: Support would be provided for the:
- preparation of an organization and human resources development plan, including
definition of tasks and job descriptions, assessment of work performance and
conformity with the tasks;
- identification of an appropriate computerization strategy, considering budgetary
constraints, computer systems expertise available in Latvia and training needs.
The strategy would include hardware and software specifications, modular growth
and compatibility, software development standards, programming and interface
languages, network requirements, remote access, database integrity, etc.;
- development and improvement all of LWWE's managerial, administrative,
information and operating functions. This would include reporting formats for
internal and external parties and design or adaptation of existing modem and
appropriate computerized applications for the following functions:
- financial management (accounting, budgeting, financial planning, etc.);
- custom-oriented commercial management (meter reading, customer master file,
billing, collection, customer services, consumer census, consumer education
programs, etc.);



ANNEX 3A
Page 4
- supply management (requirements planning, purchasing, inventory control etc.);
- administration (budget controls, payroll, performance, etc.)
- personnel management (recruiting, promotion, remuneration etc.);
- operations and maintenance management (production control, work-orders
generation and control, collection of water and wastewater data, etc.);
- development of a Management Information System (MIS), which will allow timely
access to all information required for effective control and management of the
company. The computerization of the managerial, administrative and operating
functions would be developed in an integrated manner. Any databases would
require the storage of information in a common format for future retrieval and
analysis;
- development of a reporting system for the follow-up of capital investment with the
objective of providing the company's management with appropriate tools for:
making effective and efficient use of existing assets; monitoring and controlling its
investment programs; and accounting for the impact of future renewals. It is
proposed that the implementation of a Geographic Information System (GIS) is
considered;
(iii) Training: It is expected that drafting new managerial and administrative functions
would be done jointly with the twinning partner and LWWE. Most of the
knowledge transfer from the twinning partner to LWWE would take place through
visits to the twinning company and on-the-job training during the process of carrying
out the different tasks under the component. However, specialized training through
external consultants or attendance in external training courses for utilizing computers
and associated software would be required as an initial step of implementation.
(b) System Rehabilitation Program, and Operational Improvements
(i)   Objective: The main objective of this component would be to technically improve
operations and maintenance practices in the water and wastewater system including
the plant and distribution systems;
(ii) Scope: Operation and maintenance water loss reduction, equipment maintenance,
etc. and the design or adaptation of existing modern and appropriate computerized
applications:
- system repair and improvements;
- formulation of a network optimization program;
- supporting the implementation of a leak detection and repair program to be
initiated with support from the Regional EU PHARE Program. This includes the



ANNEX 3A
Page 5
establishment of a reliable record of system leaks, their causes and appropriate
repair methods;
- system mapping; and
- demand management (development of a water loss reduction program).
(iii) Training: Most of the knowledge transfer from the twinning partner would take
place through on-the-job training during the process of carrying out the different
tasks under the component. Specialized training through external consultants or
attendance in external training courses and visits to the twinning company would be
applied as appropriate. Training should be provided to LWWE staff on the use of
leakage detection equipment as well as on establishing leakage detection routines.
(c) Training
(i)   Obiective: The objective of the training component is to provide LWWE staff with
the skills and knowledge required to enable the company to improve its operational,
commercial, and financial performance.
(ii)  Scope of the Training component: A rapid assessment of training needs within
LWWE would be made. The training component would be based on the Action
Plan and draw upon the twinning partner's knowledge and experience. An adequate
composition of study tours, external course attendance, classroom and on-the-job
training would be designed. Training of trainers within LWWE would be
emphasized and the provision of this required training would be initiated
immediately. The results of this component would be evaluated every year by the
twinning coordinators and the PIU, and the lessons learned would be incorporated in
the formulation of the subsequent annual training plan.
The training program would reach all levels of the organization covering technical,
administrative and management training. Three types of training modes would be
utilized:
- On-the-iob training. Training needs at all levels would be addressed by on-the-job
training. This training would consist of planned activities conducted at the work
site using job tasks as training for the staff. The twinning partner would assist by
providing the necessary technical content to the activities, and in providing training
to potential future trainers at LWWE. In addition to training in their own utility,
the trainers could be trained at the twinning company.
- Training by external consultants. Training in areas such as information systems;
including accounting, budgeting and general computer knowledge, could be
provided by selected specialized external consultants working under contract to the
company.



ANNEX 3A
Page 6
Educational visits overseas to modem, efficiently-run water companies, primarily
the twinning partner. Introducing new managerial and operational approaches
would require that the company's staff visit appropriate water companies outside
of Latvia. Selected staff could study at the twinning agency, following
preparation of a detailed training plan with clear objectives. This activity would
be essential because the staff upon their return would be responsible for working
by themselves to initiate and implement up-to-date managerial and operational
practices. The individual training plans would be prepared in consultation with
and approved by the Project Implementation Unit.



ANNEX 3B
Page 6
LATVIA
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
Objective
1.    The objective of the tariff study is to design a tariff system for Liepaja Water Supply
Enterprise (LWWE) which meets the following criteria: (a) allows the entity to generate sufficient
cash flow for meeting its financial requirements; (b) provides incentives for conserving water and for
undertaking pollution control and abatement activities; (c) reflects as closely as possible the costs to
the economy of meeting increasing demands for water and sewerage services; and (d) ensures that
services will be affordable to the whole population.
Scope
2.     The scope of the tariff study will include:
(a)    estimating the incremental costs for the water supply system, resulting from building
new capacity, rehabilitating and updating infrastructure, reducing unaccounted-for
water, and operating and maintaining the infrastructure;
(b)    estimating the incremental costs for the sewerage system, resulting from building new
capacity and operating and maintaining the infrastructure. The capacity cost includes
investments for sewerage connections, collectors and pumping stations, interceptors,
and final disposition and treatment;
(c)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with water
supply;
(d)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with sewerage
services, taking into account both the quantity and quality of the effluent, so that the
costs of the sewage system and treatment can be equitably and efficiently distributed
between domestic and industrial dischargers and between the various industrial firms;
(e)    estimating the financial requirements for LWWE meeting preestablished targets such
as a viable cash position, contribution to maintenance and investments from internal
generation of funds, provision for bad debts, and debt service;
(f)    estimating the customer's ability to pay for the services in the context of anticipated
increase of other utilities (e.g. heating and electricity); and



ANNEX 3B
Page 7
(g)   training of relevant LWWE staff in the development and use of cost estimation
models.
4.    The study, based on the estimates enumerated in para. 2 should recommend:
(a)    alternative tariff policies which meet the requirements outlined in para. 1;
(b)    a plan of action and strategy to implement the recommended tariff policies, to the
extent that Liepaja and LWWE's authorities have the legal capability to do it; and
(c)    ways in which the public can be made more aware of the need of implementing the
proposed tariff policy.



Annex 4
WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS






ANNEX4
Page 1
WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A.    Overview
1.    Introduction. Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive
environmental benefits through rapid improvement of water quality in the Liepaja area through
significant improvements in the performance standards of the municipal wastewater treatment plant
and expansion of the scope of its collection of wastewater, reduced pollution of the Baltic Sea,
expanded recreational use of the Baltic Sea beaches through pollution reduction, and upgrading
environmental management of adjacent coastal areas and wetlands.
2.    Environmental Review. The proposed project component was the subject of an
environmental review prepared by Sir William Halcrow & Partners Ltd. (United Kingdom), working
in association with the Water Research Center (United Kingdom), Wessex Water International (United
Kingdom), and Zenico Ltd (Latvia). The review was consistent with the requirements of the World
Bank for a Category B project and complies with the Latvian Law on Environmental Impact
Assessment. The objective was to evaluate the potential environmental impacts from the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Liepaja Water and Wastewater Enterprise (LWWE). These
activities would be implemented by LWWE with the support of the Governments of Sweden and
Finland and EU PHARE. The study was conducted using a site specific approach.
3.    Latvian Participation and Consultation Process. The environmental review for the
proposed project was prepared with the full cooperation of the Latvian Ministry of Environment and
Regional Development (MOE) and its Regional Environmental Protection Committee for the Liepaja
District (REPC-L). Representatives of the MOE and its Environmental Assessment Board have been
involved in all stages of development of the proposed project and have participated in a series of site
visits to all proposed program sites. Consultations have been conducted with the representatives of
the local municipality.
4.    Present Conditions. The main environmental problems in LWWE operations concern the
discharge of partially treated and untreated effluent and the disposal of sewage sludge. Although the
treated effluent is low in suspended solids and heavy metals, the BOD and ammoniacal nitrogen
content is high, which could lead to low dissolved oxygen in the receivinig waters. The pipeline
discharges 1.3 km from the coast into a fairly shallow area, where currents are of low velocity.
Problems associated with this discharge are exacerbated by the fact that the treatment works is unable
to give full secondary treatment to the capacity of sewage entering the system. The overload
currently amounts to approximately 10 - 20,000 m3 per day, and as a result these quantities are
discharged through the outfall with only primary treatment. This has ecological, aesthetic, and health
implications. The Liepaja Environmental and Public Health Center reports that there is faecal
contamination of the beaches north of the harbor and that the level of coliform bacteria is sometimes
unacceptable, which significantly limits the efforts of both the Government of Latvia and Liepaja to
expand tourism in the area.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.     The raw sewage that is pumped to the wastewater treatment plant is of medium strength and is
low in heavy metals. Although the treatment process releases unpleasant odors, the location of the
facility is in a relatively remote and unpopulated area so this is unlikely to be of significance except
for the employees of the utility. There are few visual impacts from the utility which is well screened
by the surrounding forest. There are further deficiencies in the sewerage system itself. There is only
a single pipeline carrying wastewater from the final pumping station to the treatment works, and it is
in a poor state of repair. There were two major breaks in the pressure line in 1990 which caused a
complete breakdown of the wastewater collection system and considerable environmental damage.
6.    In addition to the discharge of excess sewage at the utility, there are environmental problems
elsewhere in the city resulting from the discharge of untreated wastewater. This arises in part because
the combined drainage system containing both domestic and industrial effluent discharges to the
aquatic environment untreated. This system contains 14 outlets to the City Channel and 8 to Liepaja
Lake which release untreated domestic sewage and industrial wastewater. Water quality in the City
Channel and Liepaja Lake is further degraded by direct discharges from various industries. Liepaja
Lake is the most important ecological site in the city and has a designated Ornithological Reserve
which is of considerable botanical interest. Data indicate that the ecology of the northern part of the
lake and the channel are adversely affected by the wastewater discharges and that organic load is the
main problem.
7.     Although there are few impacts associated with the potable water system, the outdated
chlorine dosing systems at the treatment works are a cause for concern, as these are located in
inhabited areas. The use of outdated procedures and storage equipment make a hazardous release of
chlorine gas a possibility. Non-point source pollutants are less of a problem than in the past because
of the changes in agricultural practices.
B. Elements of the Proposed Project Component
8.     Major Findings. The environmental review concluded that the wastewater treatment utility is
currently hydraulically overloaded. Extending the works to treat a greater volume of wastewater
would prevent untreated sewage being discharged to the Baltic Sea at certain times of the day. In
addition, measures aimed at reducing the septicity of incoming sewage would make the sewage less
odorous and easier to treat. This would improve working conditions for wastewater treatment
personnel, save energy and may lead to effluent quality improvements.
9.    It is apparent that point source pollution within Liepaja is a major problem for water quality.
In addition to lowing the chemical quality of the receiving waters, thus damaging aquatic ecosystems,
the discharges of untreated sewage are resulting in unacceptable microbiological pollution. Diversion
of these untreated discharges to the wastewater outfall located at the treatment plant and provision of
the appropriate capacity at the utility to treat them is a priority.  In contrast, non-point sources are
not currently seen as a problem in terms of the quality of surface waters in Liepaja. This is not
unreasonable given the urgent need to address point source pollution the city.
10.    Unacceptable pollution and degradation of ecologically valuable wetlands to the west of
Tosmares Lake has been caused in the past by the failure of the rising main serving the wastewater
treatment works. In addition, this has resulted in interruption of the city water supply which has



ANNEX 4
Page 3
major public health implications. Works aimed at improving the security of this facility (e.g.,
refurbishment or dualling) should therefore, be given a high priority. It is also thought that the
sludge storage lagoons at the Liepaja wastewater utility may be causing pollution of underground
water. This will be investigated in the detailed design of the project.
11.   The fact that all houses in the city are not served by the main water supply is a public health
issue. The project would include a limited extension of the existing supply network to cover areas
now supplied by standpipes. This would be a pilot project because there is an affordability issue for
the inhabitants who would be connected. Refurbishing the water treatment facilities can be expected
to confer public health benefits as the reliability of supply of wholesome water would be improved.
In addition, renovation of the chlorine dosing facilities will reduce the risk of health-threatening
accidents.
12.   Proposed Improvements. A brief description of proposed water supply and wastewater
treatment improvements in Liepaja is provided as follows:
(a)    Water Supply. Improvements to the water supply system can be divided into two
distinct categories: those to maintain the current system and improvements aimed at
enhancing the performance of the system.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. The following operations to
maintain the current system are proposed:
Rehabilitation of the parts of the network which are leaking most
heavily and introduction of water metering to promote water
conservation; and
*     Provision of chlorination, some laboratory facilities, and emergency
spare parts to improve the quality of supplied water;
(ii)   Improvements Aimed at Enhancing Performance. The following
improvements aimed at enhancing performance of the water supply system
are proposed:
Completion of the New Otanki Transmission Main to reduce leakages
and maintenance costs, and to provide an acceptable level of supply
security; and
*     Limited extension of the existing supply network to cover areas now
supplied by standpipes.
(b)    Wastewater Treatment. Improvements to the wastewater system can be divided into
two distinct categories: those to maintain the current system and improvements aimed
at enhancing the performance of the system.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. The following operations are
proposed to maintain the current system:
*      Reconstruction of sewers in imminent danger of collapse (estimated at
2000 meters) and initiation of a rolling program of sewer by
relining/reconstruction to ensure the long-term operating capacity of
the underground assets; and
*      Rehabilitation of the terminal pumping station and reconstruction of
the terminal main to the treatment works to ensure the continuous
treatment of the current and future wastewater flows.
(ii)   Improvements Aimed at Enhancing Performance. The following operations to
enhance the performance of the system are proposed:
*      Construction of interceptors to convey an additional flow of 16,000
m3/d, which is currently discharged directly to the lake or the city
channel, to the treatment works.
Completion of the new works currently under construction. the
completed plant will be to treat current and increased flows to meet
HELCOM standards.
13.    Potential Environmental Impacts. The environmental impacts which may result from the
proposed water and wastewater treatment have been divided into general impacts and specific impacts:
(a)    General Impacts. There will inevitably be some environmental impacts associated
with the construction activities. The magnitude of these impacts will depend on a
number of factors including proximity of houses, length of construction period,
working hours, and methods of construction but, in the case of large construction
projects (e.g., extension to the wastewater treatment works), have the potential to be
significant and prolonged. In particular such impacts could include noise and
vibration, dust releases, possible odor releases when working on existing sewerage
facilities, pollution of surface or underground waters due to releases or spillages of
material from construction sites, disruption of traffic and noise pollution associated
with transporting construction materials and large items of plant, pollution risk and
hazard to the health of construction workers if construction is carried out on
contaminated land (e.g., areas of where LWWE sewage sludge has been stored).
Visual environmental impacts are expected to be minimal.
None of the water or wastewater treatment proposals involve any resettlement of
people. However, certain temporary disruptions to life in Liepaja are inevitable,
particularly when work to install new sewers or water mains is being carried out.
(b)    Specific Impacts of Potential Water Treatment and Supply Improvement Schemes. The
particular impacts can be divided into those resulting from operations to maintain the



ANNEX 4
Page 5
current system and improvements to enhance system performance. Replacement of
pumps to optimize performance would improve the efficiency of the units and lead to
energy and cost savings.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. Operations, such as identification
of failure 'hot spots" and renovation and replacement of mains, to reduce
water loss from the current water treatment and supply system would have a
positive environmental impact as less water would need to be abstracted and
treated thus saving energy and materials; and
(ii)   Improvements to Enhance System Performance. Improvements to enhance the
performance of the wastewater collection and treatment system will also have
an overall positive impact on Latvia's environment as described below:
*     Improving the monitoring of raw and treated water in the supply
system can be expected to have a positive impact on public health in
Liepaja;
*     Improved treatment facilities will have similar health benefits to those
discussed above. In addition, refurbishment of the chlorination plants
will reduce the risk of a health-threatening accident occurring at these
locations;
*     Improving system performance and reliability by increasing security of
supply, pressure zoning and improving emergency facilities and
procedures will confer similar benefits to those discussed in
"Operations to Maintain Current System (above);" and
*     Providing an in-house supply of water to more homes will convey
public health benefits. Lack of such a facility has been related to
health problems and illness.
(c)    Specific Impacts of Potential Wastewater Treatment Improvement Proposals. The
particular impacts can be divided into those resulting from operations to maintain the
current system and improvements to enhance system performance.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. Undertaking operations to
maintain the current wastewater system can be expected to have an overall
positive environmental impact. Replacing, repairing, and renovating sewers,
rising mains, mechanical and electrical equipment, and sewage works plant
will minimize future failures and thus help reduce the risk of discharge of
untreated or partially treated sewage. This will benefit the water environment
and be of benefit to public health; and



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(ii)   Improvements to Enhance System Performance. Improvements to enhance the
performance of the wastewater collection and treatment system will also have
an overall positive impact on Latvia's environment as described below:
*     Measures to prevent septicity in the sewage will make the sewage less
odorous. In addition, because the sewage ill be easier to treat,
improvements in effluent quality and reductions in energy usage at the
utility can be expected;
*     Providing sewerage for currently unsewered areas can be expected to
improve groundwater and surface water quality as cesspools will no
longer be required in those areas;
*      Upgrading pumping stations to improve efficiency will save energy
and reduce costs;
*     Diversion and interception of domestic and industrial wastewater,
which is currently discharged to the watercourses untreated, and
providing suitable treatment facilities will have an overwhelmingly
positive impact on the Liepaja environment. This will improve the
quality of the watercourses in the city from both environmental and
health viewpoints. In particular, the bathing beaches in Liepaja will
benefit from higher quality water which will encourage tourism;
*     Extension of the Liepaja wastewater treatment plant to treat a greater
volume of sewage will alleviate the current plant overload which will
improve effluent quality and thus enhance the chemical and
microbiological quality of the Baltic Sea and bathing beaches in the
discharge area. In order to gain the maximum environmental benefit,
such an extension should also provide sufficient capacity to treat the
volume of sewage expected from newly sewered areas; and
*     Automation of the existing facilities can be expected to save energy
and allow faster, or automatic, responses to system problems thus
keeping potential environmental pollution to a minimum.
(d)    Specific Impacts of Potential Sewage Sludge Treatment Improvement Schemes.
Thickening or dewatering of the wastewater treatment plant sludge will reduce the
sludge volume by decreasing its water content. Currently this would have a positive
environmental impact as the inadequate drainage system in the sludge lagoons is
allowing leachate to enter the underground strata. However, once the lagoon drainage
is improved this would no longer be a benefit. Reduction in sludge volume could
reduce environmental impacts arising from transportation if the sludge were to be
removed from site (e.g., to farmland) in the future. Improving the lining and
drainage in the sludge drying lagoons will produce an immediate environmental
benefit as the leachate from the sludge, which currently enters the ground, will be



ANNEX 4
Page 7
returned to the wastewater treatment works inlet thus preventing pollution of
underground water. Disposal of the sewage sludge to agricultural land could have a
negative environmental impact if it is not controlled effectively.
14.   Proposed Mitigation Plan. The overall aim of the project is to recommend measures which
will improve the water supply and wastewater services of Liepaja. The major environmental impact
of the project will therefore be beneficial in improving the quality of life of the human population.
Further positive impacts will result from the improvement in water quality in the present discharge
areas resulting in improved ecological conditions.
15.   Few of the impacts of the completed projects will be adverse and none are likely to be
significant and require mitigation. The impact of construction will affect primarily the human
population and will be largely limited to relatively minor disruption and disturbance. Environmental
enhancements that will accrue on completion of the project are unlikely to be significant or require
mitigation. Nevertheless, it should still be possible to reduce the extent of this inconvenience by
implementing some relatively straightforward measures which are normal features of modem
construction sites. During appraisal, the mission, in consultation with the MOE and the REPC-L and
LWWE, would agree on an environmental mitigation plan for the proposed project.
16.   Proposed Monitoring Plan. It is proposed that data on water quality, biological aspects, and
contamination of sediments in the two lakes would be collected prior to the commencement of any
improvement works. The monitoring could be continued during construction of the various
improvement measures and the results compared with the baseline situation to determine the impacts
that occur and their significance. Continuation of the monitoring after completion of the construction
works will show the degree of environmental improvement achieved.
17.   Such a program would involve sampling and analysis of water quality at points in the City
Channel, the military harbor, Lake Liepaja and Lake Tosmares. It would also include sampling of
sediment at points in Liepaja and Tosmares Lakes and analysis for species and densities of plankton,
benthos, and fish in the City Channel, military harbor, Liepaja and Tosmares Lakes, and in the Baltic
Sea in the vicinity of the outfall. Birds and plants in the two lakes, wetlands, and dunes would also
be monitored to determine sensitive locations and seasons. Ideally, data collection would commence a
year before commencement of the works. During appraisal, the mission, in consultation with the
MOE, REPC-L and the LWWE, would agree on an environmental monitoring plan for the proposed
project.






Annex 5
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET






ENVIRONMIEiNTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Countsy:                             LATVIA                       Project ID No:                       7LATPA009
Project Name:                        Liepaja Environment          Total Project Cost:                  $21.17 M
Appraisal Date:                      June 27. 1994
Board Date:                          December 2, 1994             Task Manager:                        S. Lintner
Managing Division:                   EC4NR                        Sector:                              Environment
Lending Ensaruments:                 SIL                          Status:                              Standby
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (AJB/C):                 B                            Date Assigned:                       July 21, 1993
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated         October 21, 1994
(Please do not leave any iLems blank use 'N/A or 'To be developed' when appropriate)
Major Project Components: (presents description of project component)
Regional environmental management project including: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of Liepaja water and wastewatet
system; (b) institutional strengthening and training to support establishment of autonomous water and wastewater utility:
(c) support for implementation of management plan for adjacent coastal areas and wetlands; and (d) actions for planned
development of recreational and nature-based tourism in the Liepaja region.
Major Environmental Issues: (descnbes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
(i) Environmental impacts resulting from  improvements to4be made in Liepaja water and wastewater system; (ii) impacts
of actions needed for pre-treatment of industrial wastewaters prior to discharge to municipal sewer system; (iii) adequate
funding of the water/wastewater utility for proper operation and maintenance of facilities; (iv) management measures for
adjacent coastal areas and wetlands supported under the project; and (v) evaluation of potential investments to support
ecologically sound tourism.
Other Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
N/A
Proposed Actions: (describes acLions proposed to mitigaLe envrontmental issues described in project)
An environmental review has been prepared for the proposed project by a joint British and latvian team  consistent with
the environmental review procedures of Larvia and those of the Bank. Preparation of the study was coordinated with the
Ministry of Environmental and Regional Development (MOE) of Latvia and the regional environmental protection
cotnmittee.  A seminar on the Bank's environmental assessment procedures was given by Bank staff in Riga in April
1993 and the findings of the environmental review  discussed with national and local authorities in April-May 1994 and a
field review  was conducted by the State Minister of Environment and Head of the Environmental Assessment Board in
June 1994. Environmental reviews would be prepared as elements of environmental activities to be supported by the
proposed project and implemented under supervision of the MOE.
Justificaaon/Ranonale for Environmental Category: (reasons for environmental category selected & explanation of any changes from initial classificaton)
The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" as the potential imnpacts are restricted in
scope and largely beneficial. It should be noted that support for improved municipal water and wastewater
infrastructure, including pre-treatment of industrial wastewater discharged to these systems, would focus on the
completion or rehabilitation of existing facilities. All facilities to be funded under the project would be approved by the
MOD and regional environmental protection committees.  All improvements to the wastewater treatment plant would
occur on the existing site, well outside Liepaja.  In the case of activities for improved management of coastal zone and
protected areas, these would largely occur in areas which are presently designated as recreational or natural areas and
would not involve resettlement of any current residents.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date. EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives sasius of any other environrenal studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted. tells whether borrower has given permnission to release EA. eSC)
The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has participated in the preparation of the proposed project and would
implement management activities in Lake Pape and Jurkalne. Bank staff from Headquarters and the Regional Office in
Riga made several site visits to areas to review coastal and wetlands management issues with representatives of the
MOE, WWF(.nd local go)epments.
Signed by:                                                        Signed by:
if  0  y Fx         C4NR                                          Anand Seth (EMTEN)
C.-'--                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~October21. 1994






Annex 6
REVIEW OF AFFORDABILITY






Annex 4. Review of Affordability
Affordability Projection at Fixed (1994) Prices
Number of persons per household:                   3.2
Average household income:                           75
Beginning of
1994 Current       1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000     2001
Real Income Growth:                                                             4.00%/o   4.00%h    4.00%/o    5.00%/    5.00%o    5.00%/o   5.00%/o
Average household income                LAT/month               75        75       78        81        84       89        93        98      103
Water Consumption
- per person                           Liter/day               160      160       160       160      160       160      160       160       160
- per household                        m3/month              15.57     15.57    1557      15.57     15.57    15.57     15.57     15.57    15.57
Water Charges                                                   4.9               6.96      7.91     8.67      8.77     8.85      8.94      9.02
Sewerage Charges                                              3.995              6.696    8.814    11.419    11.957    12.521    13.112    13.112
Combined Tariffs                        LAT/month              0.09     0.11      0.14     0.17      0.20      0.21     0.21      0.22      0.22
Total Monthly Charges                   LAT/month              1.39     1.71      2.13     2.60      3.13      3.23     3.33      3.43      3.45
Annual Tariff Increase                                                23.66%h   24.15%    22.47%    20.12%   3.18%     3.11%    3.19%o    0.36%/
Monthly Charges as % of income                               1.85%     2.28%    2.73%     3.21%    3.71%     3.64%     3.58%    3.52%     3.36%/
Monthly Charges as average % of income                       3.10%
Total Real Tariff Increase






L~ATVIA                                                                                            
LIEPAJA ENVIRONMENT
PROJECT
Selected Towns                                /                              Itt t >  Z \\Gulf of
.    District HeodqurersRiga
o    CGtes of Notional Imtportance Vetpil .
Urbon Areas               Ventspils
-Protected Areas                               -       '.>\t
Elevontons in Meters:                                     f                     a         -
51 -150                         1 tTalsi }                                            -
151 - 250                   -      )
-       Momn Roods
sr  *   Railroads                        1y
Distric Bloundories                                                                    ;-
International BoydroIek                                                                              Tu.Y   Ktkdig o  LATVIA    1  Tukums,-  t    als
Projectitems ore           .      -~      i l                             S          (                                              a z
shown in red.            r\
bd-
Lepai 
La                           uo s '                         i5| e.
Baltic                     -f             -
Sea
Polong~~~~tut
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     90
Kreti JreR   W   ,   /  11.  f  \)\>\                                                    \
F; - ,  22* -         ~         <  ) U                       ,         vilik
m  55  / 1),} ;cX ;J=(0 {n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lk.J_v_Xr 
W  \''~~~~ '   )    ~~   -l   l                S^iUFWR~~hK    JA         _    Cakiai             < t5 -~~
W                 )           RUSSIANO~~~~~~~~~~~~T G.  R.- f- \AKXA
g                   ,&%S'  ~FEDERATION                         1                                      --4                                 _
E-tiningrad               |NtAESOa                                       C     3       o    s               _/c
tra V                  g            1O        zO         t2   (      a         7<                              _~~~~~~~~~ka 
N 7 1 ' . 2Z ! Es KvOmsed 2 <3 f f ) Mf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As



