                                                                                                                                  92520
Inhabitants of Liepaja do not Pollute the Sea                                                                                  April 29, 2004
The chilling February wind is blowing hard and the waves are crushing against the coastline. In the early 1990s this cold vicinity was
known as a hot-spot at the Baltic Sea, and the city of Liepāja figured as a major polluter of the Baltic Sea. A decade has passed, and
today, after the upgrading of wastewater treatment facility, the Liepāja beach has been awarded the Blue Flag – an eco-label symbolizing
clean sand, water and coastline. Approximately 1300 meters away from the billowing coastline, the wastewater treatment facility
discharges the treated waters of the city sewage system. "It is almost cleaner than the water of the sea," Sandra Dejus, project manager
from SIA Liepājas Ūdens, says laughingly. Since the year 1997, when the World Bank financing put new biological wastewater treatment
facility into operation, the level of pollution has fallen dramatically. Today 96.5% wastewater is clean against 83,3% prior to the upgrading
of the facility. Capacity has increased twofold: previously the system was able to treat 22 000 m³ per day, today it can manage 55 000 m³
of wastewater. The treatment facility uses active sludge. When its purification effects are utilized in full, sludge is collected and transferred
to the Liepāja Solid Waste Management, which is another project of the World Bank.

The Liepāja Environmental Project pursued the aim of restoring water quality. Wastewater from which phosphorus and nitrogen were not
removed deprived the seawaters of oxygen. Wastewater was discharged completely untreated into the Liepāja Lake and the city canal. "In
the North Sea as an example, where water is salty and cold, storms are typical and water washes the cliffs on the coast, purification to a
great extent proceeds in a natural way. The Baltic Sea, on the other hand, is not that salty, and is, at the same time a closed water body,
which requires a long time to get self-treated," notes Māris Zviedris, manager of the wastewater purification facility. Pollution in Liepāja has
been so dramatic not only owing to the local people. In order to lift all swimming restrictions for the Liepāja beach, first The city of
Klaipėda in neighboring Lithuania had to upgrade its wastewater treatment systems also under the World Bank project.

The Liepāja Environmental Project was the very first of its kind in Latvia implemented under international financing. Due to it, the project
has not only produced a tangible positive outcome but has also been an excellent lesson in project management. "It is not a secret that
regions are competing among themselves. This project offered an advantage to us over other regions, namely we learned how to attract
and use financing. The Project enabled us to excel among other Baltic States," admits Gunārs Ansiņš, Director of the Liepāja City
Council's Development Department. Thanks to good cooperation with the World Bank, it was easier to raise money from other sources for
implementation of other plans. For instance, Liepāja managed to improve the quality of drinking water as well.

Now residents of the city are swimming in a clean sea and drinking both clean and tasty water. Two facilities for removing iron from the
drinking water have been built under the Liepāja Environmental Project . "We experience such luxury for the first time," notes Sandra
Dejus. Drinking water in Liepāja which is abstracted from underground wells is rich in iron. "As compared with other localities, water is very
tasty now in Liepāja," confirms Andris Štāls who came to live in Liepāja three years ago. "Even the Minister of Environment tasted the
water during the opening ceremony of the facility," jokes the manager of the iron removal facility Agris Dumpenieks. It must be noted, that
iron removal first of all is of economic importance. "It was necessary to spare household coffee makers and washing machines from
breaking," notes Agris Dumpenieks. Since the new facilities have been commissioned, even the number of water system's breakdowns
has fallen due to pipes not being clogged by iron sediments. "People have stopped complaining about broken household appliances,"
adds A.Dumpenieks. The outcomes of the World Bank Environmental Project in Liepāja are impressive, indeed: picturesque lake of Pape
in Rucava was tidied up, beach was accommodated and opportunities for tourism developed at the seashore village of Jūrkalne. But this
is a theme for yet another story.
