                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34625

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70130)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 120 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                                 FOR A

                                  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                            December 9, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Central Europe and The Baltic States
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2005)

                                     Currency Unit = PLN
                                            1 PLN = US$ 0.3032
                                            US$ 1 = PLN 3.2982
                                      1 EURO = PLN 3.8869
                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     January -    December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARMA        Agency for Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture
BGK         Bank of National Economy
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
EU          European Union
FAPA        Foundation for Assistance Programs to Agriculture
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOP         Government of Poland
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IROP        Integrated Regional Operational Program
MIAPAMinistry of Internal Affair and Public Administration
MARD        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOLSP       Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MONES       Ministry of National Education and Sport
NSC         National Steering Committee
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
QAC         Quality Assurance Group
RDP         Rural Development Project
SAPARD      Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
VLOs        Voivodship Labor Offices
VPIUs       Voivodship Project Implementation Unit




                                   Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                                 Country Director     Daniela Gressani
                                   Sector Director    Laura Tuck
                              Task Team Leader:       Mark Lundell

                                           POLAND
                                 Rural Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P058202                                                  Project Name: Rural Development Project
Team Leader: Mark R. Lundell                                         TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Development Project                                L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70130
   Country/Department: POLAND                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (30%); Water supply (23%); Roads and highways (23%); Sub-national
                            government administration (13%); Micro- and SME finance (11%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P); Decentralization
                            (P); Small and medium enterprise support (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/11/1999                                     Effective: 08/01/2000                09/29/2000
     Appraisal: 07/09/1999                                         MTR: 09/02/2002                  07/12/2002
      Approval: 04/11/2000                                      Closing: 07/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF POLAND/MINISTRY OF FINANCE, MARD, SELF GOV.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Benoit Blarel                                  Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Mark R. Lundell                                Piotr Wilczynski
ICR Primary Author:             Ryszard Malarski; Mark R.
                                Lundell


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background and Introduction

The RDP was prepared and initiated during a difficult macroeconomic environment in Poland in the late
1990's and the beginning of the current decade. The late 1990's were characterized by a fall in economic
growth, a rapid increase in the unemployment rate, and a deterioration of the economic situation in
agriculture. Poland's GDP growth rate fell from 7% in 1998 to 4% in 1999 and 2000, and 1% in 2001.
The unemployment rate rose from 10% in 1997 to over 17% in 2001. The situation in rural areas reflected
these negative trends through increasing unemployment in rural areas, stagnant investment activity, and, a
deterioration of state public finances which had a negative impact on the level of public services in rural
areas.

By the end of the 1990's, the agricultural and rural economy had also advanced less than other sectors in
terms of institutional transformation and capacity building. In addition, the 1999 administrative reform of
the country (replacing the existing 49 voivodships with 16 large voivodships) placed the responsibility for
the implementation of local development policy on the newly formed county self-government units (called
powiats) and the existing local self-government units (called gminas), albeit in the framework of regional
development policy developed now by the voivodships. This decentralizing reform significantly increased
the demand in rural areas for highly qualified specialists dealing with the problems of regional and local
development. With the Special Accession Program for Agricultural and Rural Development (SAPARD)
due to be initiated in 2000, the demand for rural public administration capacity was expected to be further
intensified.

In response to these challenges faced by rural communities, the Rural Development Project (RDP) adopted
a medium-term approach based on building managerial expertise in local and regional administrations,
boosting the level of human capital of the unemployed, and upgrading public infrastructure and the
availability of micro-finance in order to spur private investment and promote job growth. Specifically, the
development objectives of the RDP were to: increase the level of off-farm employment in rural areas; (ii)
contribute to the on-going decentralization of self-government and of regional development; and, (iii) assist
Poland in building institutional capacity to absorb EU pre-accession and structural funds. This last
objective recognized that absorption of these funds by rural communities in the long-term would be a main
mechanism for the promoting human capital development, formation of off-farm enterprises, modernization
of agriculture, and related job growth.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The RDP's objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Component A: Microcredit (US$19.05 million). This component was centered on the development of
micro-enterprises. Its objective was to reduce hidden and registered unemployment in rural areas. In
particular, the component promoted off-farm self-employment in rural gminas of five voivodships through
financing: (a) small, one time only grants to cover cost of small investments; (b) micro-loans up to
US$5,000 to new and existing rural micro-enterprises; (c) advisory services for newly established
micro-enterprises created under the component; and (d) operational costs and technical assistance for
micro-lending to non-governmental organizations which were selected to assist in the implementation of the
component as service providers.

Component B: Human Capital Development

Sub-component B1: Labor Redeployment (US$44.84 million). The objective of the sub-component was to
assist economically disadvantaged in rural communities to expand and use their human capital in response



                                                     - 2 -

to economic and labor market opportunities. The sub-component financed two main tasks: (i) economic and
labor market surveys; and (ii) labor redeployment services, such as specialized employment services,
on-the-job and institutional training, support to temporary community employment, small business
assistance services, small business incubators, promotion activities and local economic development
planning grants.

Sub-component B2: Education (US$24.67 million). The overall objective of the education sub-component
was to improve the utilization of educational resources. The education sub-component financed five major
activities: (i) a program for improving the quality of teaching in primary schools and gymnasia in target
areas through training; (ii) a program for improving the quality of school equipment through the provision
of instructional material; (iii) a program for supporting the introduction of computers for instructional
purposes in rural gminas; (iv) a program for improving school facilities; and (v) support bolstering public
awareness, implementation and monitoring of project activities.

Sub-component B3: Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations (US$12.62 million). The
overall objective of this sub-component was to increase the level of efficiency and effectiveness in eligible
units of local and regional administration (gminas, powiats and voivodships) and improve the conditions for
the creation of non-farm employment in rural areas. The component financed: (i) institutional development
programs (IDP) in selected pilot units to develop a framework for improving the general efficiency of
regional and local administrations; (ii) training programs to improve the quality of services delivered by
local officials and public servants, and build capacity for implementing EU rules and regulations; and (iii) a
capacity building program aimed at supporting the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration in linking
IDP and training activities, and at developing surveys and studies.

Component C: Rural Infrastructure (US$194.89 million). The objective of this component was to improve
public infrastructure in rural areas, in order to stimulate private sector investments, facilitate the creation of
non-farm jobs, improve environmental and health conditions, and narrow the gap between rural and urban
areas in economic development. The project financed water supply systems, sewage collection and
treatment facilities, solid waste management systems and rural roads.

Component D: Project Management (US$3.77 million). The project also financed the costs of a Project
Coordination Unit (equipment, staff, and operations), and a provision was made for the costs incurred by
the project teams in the line ministries and the Voivodship Project Implementation Units.
.
3.4 Revised Components:
While the key component and their respective objectives remained the same throughout project
implementation period, the original allocations were later revised at the request of the National Steering
Committee (NSC). The following table illustrates the main changes.




Loan Allocations By Component PAD Estimates                Reallocation during      Actual Expenditures
                                       (Million EUR)         implementation            (Million EUR)**
                                                              (Million EUR)



                                                      - 3 -

A. Microcredit                            12.38                 11.05                     11.03
B1. Labor Redeployment                    22.47                 16.39                     16.28
B2. Education                             13.17                 33.08                     32.07
B3. Institution Building in Local         10.00                 8.07                       8.07
and Regional Administrations
C. Rural infrastructure                   56.60                 45.56                     45.56
D. Project Management                      3.00                 3.22                       3.17
Front-end-fee                              1.18                 1.19                       1.19
Total                                    118.80                118.57                     117.36
Unallocated                                                     0.23
Grand total                              118.80                118.80                     117.36

The reallocations derive from the fact that during project negotiations (the end of 1999) US$10 million of
the loan was allocated temporarily to the rural infrastructure component (Component C) as a
quasi-contingency. The new NSC established after the 2000 elections decided to reallocate this reserve,
and later, resources from components B1 (Labor Redeployment) and B3 (Institution Building), to
component B2 (Education), mainly for school rehabilitation investments. The first major increase by about
EUR 10 million in the Education component was justified by high demand for school reconstruction
activities by participating local governments. The subsequent reductions in other parts of the project
reallocation to the B2 component had the following reasons: (a) costs savings under consultancy services,
i.e. for the Institutional Building component B3; (b) Labor Redeployment component-financed activities
had an alternative support from the European Social Fund (see section 3.5); (c) rural infrastructure needs
could be additionally supported by EU, SAPARD, and later, IROP (Integrated Regional Operational
Program); and, (d) continued demand and strong implementation capacity by local governments in carrying
out minor works for school renovations.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. There was no official assessment of the project design quality at entry by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). Nevertheless, the ICR review deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory due to
a number of considerations:

Consistency with Bank Country Assistance Strategy. The project design reflected several key objectives of
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), namely: "[...] promotion of service and non-farm rural activities
through build-up of local government and institutions, training and selective infrastructure investment, [...]
and increasing private sector participation in infrastructure development, and improving educational
systems".

Responsiveness to Government Strategy for Rural Development. The project was designed to contribute
to the national program of rural development, described in the Poland's Medium-Term Strategy for
Agriculture and Rural Areas Development (April 1998), which was recognizing a growing problem of rural
unemployment, and concentrated on three key directions: improvement of working and living conditions in
rural areas; creation of new jobs by the private sector; and, acceleration of farming sector restructuring.
The strategy aimed at multi-functional development of rural areas through consolidation of efforts of
various sectors.

Government Ownership. As the project addressed the issues recognized by the government and responded
to its policy directions, the government was clearly committed to project objectives, which were aligned
with the EU pre-accession strategies and activities. Notably, the commitment was manifested not only by


                                                    - 4 -

the central but also by other government levels (gmina, powiat and voivodship), as the project promoted
decentralization and empowerment of local authorities. The participatory process of project preparation
and the mechanism of specific investments identification and selection contributed to the strong ownership
by the key stakeholders. The role of regional self-governments in the Polish administration structure was
enhanced as a result of adopted decentralized implementation arrangements for the project. (For example,
Voivodship Labor Offices played a key and decisive role in the Labor Redeployment component which
prepared them to later apply for and absorb the European Social Funds.)

Forward-looking and Comprehensive Approach.             RDP was the first comprehensive program in the
transformation period in Poland supporting the development of rural areas. Preceding programs had a
narrow sectoral nature, and most of them were oriented only towards agriculture. The main focus of RDP
was on the key needs for development of a wider rural sector, whether at regional or communal levels. In
this respect, RDP paved the way for similar EU-financed programs.

Assessment of Risks. The main risks to achievement of project objectives were rather well identified at the
entry and adequate steps were taken at the preparatory stage to mitigate them. However, some factors were
not sufficiently reflected in the PAD. This particularly concerns the relatively complicated flow of funds
which was designed together with the Ministry of Finance, as the only feasible alternative compliant with
Polish law. Unfortunately, slowly acquired mastery by project beneficiaries of the procedures dictated by
this flow of funds caused major delays in the first year of project implementation.

In addition, an extended tendering period for the management contract for sub-component B1 (Labor
Redeployment) was not adequately foreseen.          This resulted in a slow start to the sub-component.
Consequently, when funding by the European Social Fund (ESF) of activities similar to the RDP
B1-financed activities became available on more favorable conditions (85% grant financing as compared to
50% by the RDP loan), the original RDP allocation had to be decreased (and was shifted to component B2
-Education - see section 3.4).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved its objectives and outcomes satisfactorily in all three areas of employment creation,
decentralization of self-government, and institutional capacity building. Outcomes in each of these three
areas are discussed below.

Employment creation. In regard to the first outcome, the project contributed to the creation of about
22,500 jobs outside of agriculture directly. The direct employment effect through the Micro-Credit
component (A) was roughly 3,000, while over 14,500 RDP participants were placed in jobs under the
Labor Redeployment component (B1). The direct employment effect through implementation of
infrastructure investments (Component C) was 4,991. As the project's ex-post economic analysis shows
(Annex 3), Component C expenditures on infrastructure investments indirectly created over 64,000 jobs.
The RDP's average cost of job creation (with all components' costs included) was 3,000 EUR (about 25%
less than the average cost expected at appraisal of $5,000 each).

Clearly, the quantification of the impact of improved teacher qualifications, educational materials, and
better physical education infrastructure on the quality of labor force and its employability can only be
evaluated in the longer-term perspective. Nevertheless, even without examining the longer term
employment and investment impact of the Infrastructure and Education components the total job creation
achieved by the RDP amounts to roughly 87,000 jobs. This exceeds the total expected level at appraisal of



                                                     - 5 -

44,000 jobs by a wide margin.

Decentralization and regional development. The project contributed to strengthening decentralized
governance and administration. At the time of project preparation, the Polish government had recently
introduced public administration and territorial reforms. However, local administrative capacity was still
low and needed to be enhanced. This goal was directly pursued and achieved through training activities
supported under Component B3 (Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations) which
contributed to improvement of the management of human and financial resources in local administrations.

Training was provided to 4,195 participants from 595 administrative units in the areas of: strategic and
financial management; management of public services; stimulation of economic development, social
participation and social development; project management; human resource management; ethics and
prevention of corruption; and cooperation between local government units. In each of these areas, detailed
instruction materials were prepared and transferred, with clear step by step methodologies and lessons on
best practices highlighted. For many participants, this was their first instance of formal training in local
level public administration. In addition, detailed institutional analysis, development plans, and project
analyses were implemented in 33 self-government units in an intensive mentoring program. In this way, the
new administrative units' authorities learned strategic, investment and financial planning, fund-raising and
project execution skills through on-job training.

In the final project evaluation survey, representatives of self-government authorities marked very high the
usefulness of these RDP training activities for improving their ability to conduct the functions delegated to
the regional and local levels. All project training manuals were also distributed to over 1900 local
governments which could not participate in the RDP's training programs directly.

Institutional capacity building to absorb EU-pre-accession and structural funds. The philosophy and
mechanisms incorporated into RDP administration were pioneering in terms of decentralizing project
participation choices (both in terms of components and activities within components). Regional
governments (through Voivodship Project Implementation Units in the Marszaleks' offices) were in charge
of managing the Labor Redeployment, Education, and Rural Infrastructure components, which took their
particular shape in each region on the basis of expressed preferences by the local government units and
their inhabitants. These regional and local self-governments responded to the challenge as they were the
crucial actors in boosting RDP implementation momentum in the final three years of the RDP. This
experience of decentralized RDP implementation using transparent and consistently applied principles (and
supported by an efficient Management Information System)was instrumental in making these regional and
local self governments ready to participate in EU funded programs. As the end-of-the-project surveys
show, gminas who participated in the Institutional Development Program under component B.2 were more
successful in applying for EU-supported regional development programs.

Now that Poland has become an EU Member State, the organizational arrangements designed under the
project and institutional strengthening have been subsequently adopted and utilized in the context of EU
supported programs. For example, the Regional Steering Committees set up for RDP as decision making
bodies were also adopted for EU SAPARD program and for the Integrated Regional Operational Program
financed in 2004-2006 by EU structural funds. Similarly, Voivodship Labor Offices in seven Voivodships
which participated in the RDP gained enough experience and strengthened their capacity through
implementation of the Labor Redeployment component B.1 so as to later be able to quickly absorb funds
from similar programs under the European Social Fund. In addition, the National Steering Committee
which facilitated the cooperation among line ministries under the RDP was also adopted for the use of EU
structural funds, though on a wider scale.


                                                      - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Quantitative indicators for the project outputs were exceeded in most components and the unit costs were
consequently lower than assumed at the appraisal stage of the project. As a result, the outputs for each of
the project components are rated satisfactory. The achieved outputs for each project component (relative to
their targets) are as follows (with full comparison of all achieved outputs relative to targeted output levels
in Annex 1 of this ICR):

Component A: Microcredit
4,655 micro-credits and 2,944 grants were provided to small entrepreneurs. These achieved outputs
compare favorably to the respective targets of 2,700 micro-loans and 1,500 grants. The average rate
charged by service providers was 7.9% (slightly above the originally expected average rate of 7.5%). The
final Quarterly Project Management report (PMR # 18) shows that under Component A an overall
repayment rate of 98% was achieved (as measured with regard to loan amounts).

Sub-component B1: Labor Redeployment
There were 21,626 beneficiaries of employment services, 22,690 of training services, 8,117 of temporary
employment services; and 21,245 through business assistance centers created. The total number of these
(73,678) participants who successfully completed training and related services (70,382) was in line with the
originally targeted level (70,000), and this training was provided at unit PLN rates that were within 10% of
original cost estimates.

Sub-component B2: Education
In total, 2,018 schools were renovated, and 750 classrooms and 626 pre-school education classrooms were
equipped. These levels of project outputs were more than ten times higher than the originally targeted
levels. In addition, 748 school directors and 8,231 teachers were trained, and 6,416 school staff were
trained in information technology. These training levels (totaling 15,395 people) exceeded the targeted
level (15,000). Lastly, 711 software packages and 746 packages of educational materials were acquired by
gminas (compared with targeted levels of 400 and 600, respectively).

Sub-component B3: Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations
The RDP supported training of 4,195 staff of 595 gminas and powiats, participation by 33
self-governments in an Institutional Development Program, and participation by 1,225 self-governments in
regional dissemination conferences summarizing the lessons learned by participants to the training and the
Institutional Development Program. In all areas, the targeted output indicator levels were exceeded.

Component C: Rural Infrastructure
The project supported construction of 750 km of new and rehabilitated roads, 11,818 new water supply
connections, 138,926 m of new solid waste capacity, and 236 new sewerage plants. These output levels
                          3


exceeded the targeted levels for roads and water supply connections by 20-30%, but were less than targeted
levels by 30% for solid waste capacity and sewerage plants. In addition, 3,019 technical staff from
self-governments were trained in design and administration of infrastructure projects.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The RDP's economic and fiscal impact is assessed (and presented in detail in Annex 3) using largely the
same methodology as put forth during the appraisal of the RDP. This looks at the degree to which the
RDP's components engendered job placement and creation and the varying costs of achieving this
employment growth. In this regard, the tracking of outputs during project implementation and the direct
research conducted under the RDP's final evaluation study clearly show the substantial employment effects



                                                      - 7 -

of the Micro-credit and Labor Redeployment components. Econometric analysis of employment levels in
powiats which participated in the Infrastructure component (including a large sample of "control"
non-participating powiats) has also been executed by the Bank project team. Given the lags involved with
the Education and Institution Building components, their employment effects have not been measured.

From these preliminary measurements, it is clear that the RDP has had a substantial and cost-effective
impact on rural employment levels. Overall, the RDP managed to promote the movement of unemployed
and new labor market entrants into an estimated 87,000 jobs, with an average cost in public funds spent of
roughly EUR 3,000 each. This is substantially lower than US$5,000 per job level of expenditure which
was defined by the RDP PAD Annex 1 as a benchmark for creating jobs in a cost-effective manner. In
addition, the unit costs of various project components compare favorably with the cost-effectiveness
benchmarks set by the RDP PAD. Building on these findings, the economic analysis then also goes beyond
the methodology of the RDP PAD and has estimated an overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the
RDP of 23%.

Lastly, the RDP Final Evaluation Study (Section 7.3 pp. 364-72) shows that the RDP activities' unit costs
compare favorably with other rural development programs in Poland. The Infrastructure component
performed particularly well in comparative terms of both material productivity and cost-efficiency. Thus,
one may draw a cautious conclusion (bearing in mind considerable differences between programs being
compared) that tendering under the RDP was generally efficient, and cost effectiveness of public funds
spent was consistently practiced.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The fiscal benefit of creating one new job has been examined by summing the foregone expenditures for
unemployment benefits, increased tax income, and additional social security premiums paid by those newly
employed. Depending on the wages received by the newly employed person, the value of annual fiscal
benefit of creating one new job, for the 2003 data, was in the range of PLN 4,582 to 11,852 (see Annex 3
for detailed calculations). Given the average cost to the Project of US$ 3,000 (roughly 12,000 PLN) per
job created, it is clear that if the new jobs created last for at least two to three years, the fiscal impact will
be positive. The Final Evaluation Study of the RDP indicates that this is likely to be the case.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is substantial and constituted one of the project objectives and has been
described in section 4.1. The project introduced modern institutional practices, compatible with European
standards. The inter-sectoral cooperation between the ministries at the central level but also between the
regional and local administrative units was newly adopted and later strengthened.                 The project also
introduced basic mechanisms of application for funds and implementation of investments supporting
regional and local development, which were precursors to those eventually used under EU-financed
programs. Knowledge and experience gained from the RDP has been used by many self-government units
to secure additional financing for their own activities and investments. The comprehensive monitoring
procedures and transparent processes contributed to better governance at all levels.                This improved
governance is clearly documented in the Final Evaluation Study of the RDP (Table 42, p.229): in surveys
of residents in gminas which participated in the B3 component, 40 percent noted significant improvements
in their gminas' performance (across 11 behavioral categories) in the two years during and subsequent to
the B3 training.      In "control" (non-participating) gminas, only 15 percent of residents noted such
improvements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There are three key factors outside the central government control which affected project implementation


                                                        - 8 -

and its outcomes. These were: (i) local governments' initial lack of willingness to participate in RDP; (ii)
weak initial mobilization of co-financing; and (iii) limited presence and capacities of construction
companies in the rural areas in the early project implementation. These factors contributed to an initially
slow pace of project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The factors subject to government control were two-fold. First, the flow of funds, as dictated by the Polish
regulations and their interpretation by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) contributed to the complexity of
project implementation and created implementation delays. Secondly, MARD's institutional capacity and
authority to coordinate the work of various ministries turned out to be low. As a result, MARD did not
initially meet all expectations in regard to the comprehensive coordination of RDP project implementation.
After the first year and a half of project implementation, this was compensated for by intensified pressure
from and activity by regional and local self-governments.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PCU was created by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to play a coordination role,
but it was not sufficiently empowered to fully carry out its responsibilities as envisioned under project
design. A one-year delay in the provision of technical assistance under the project and of the overall project
implementation is to a large extent attributable to weak empowerment of the PCU. In the course of project
implementation, the PCU received more authority from MARD and was able to play a greater role in RDP
coordination. The initial weakness of the PCU was also eventually offset by a greater role for ministerial
departments in project implementation and reliance on initiatives by regional and local self-governments,
which resolved implementation difficulties by the third year of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total disbursements were EUR 117.4 million, i.e., at 99% of the original amount of EUR 118.8 million of
the loan. The major reallocations of loan funds to the Education component was predominantly necessitated
by high demand and needs in rural areas for the improvements in school infrastructure, combined with both
increased willingness by gminas to provide co-financing and improved familiarity and expertise in their
execution of minor works (see section 3.4).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is considered likely. Particularly, in the case of infrastructure investments, the
financial and economic models developed for investments under the Rural Infrastructure component,
required gminas, at the application stage, to assess the potential maintenance costs and incorporate them
into the determination of the viability of the proposed investment. This approach provided a good level of
confidence that investment decisions were made taking into account their future sustainability. Similarly,
the results of investments in school infrastructure and the rehabilitation works are likely to be sustained.

In regard to the sustainability of Labor Redeployment program under component B1, an approach and
menu of activities similar to those of component B1 are being continued in the programs financed by the
European Social Fund. In this way, the RDP prepared Voivodship Labor Offices for the current quick
scaling up of labor redeployment activities. In a similar manner, the Micro-credit scheme under component
A has been maintained and is likely to be continued in the next few years. This is managed by the
Foundation for Assistance Programs to Agriculture (FAPA), using funds from the capital built up from the
repaid credits which were granted under the RDP.




                                                     - 9 -

The institutional knowledge and capacity gained by participating ministries and local self-governments
from the implementation of the RDP constitute another achievement which is proving to be sustainable. A
similar process and bottom-up approach as designed for the RDP (though with modifications) is being used
for application to rural development programs financed by EU structural funds. Local governments who
learned to analyze, prioritize, assess, and seek additional funding for their investments are carrying on and
utilizing this knowledge and experience for the benefit of their communities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The infrastructure facilities financed by the project are being operated by gminas and utilized by the
beneficiary rural population. According to the surveys carried out at the end of the project, most of the
enterprises (about 93%) created with the support of micro-credits provided by the RDP were still in
business at least a year after receiving the support. The rehabilitated schools are serving communities in
improved conditions, and the Ministry of Education is maintaining and managing the internet portal
"Scholaris" created under the project as a virtual center for educational resources. All business incubators
and business assistance centers continued their operation after one year from their establishment under the
RDP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending performance is rated as satisfactory. The project effectively addressed country developmental
challenges as reflected in Government and Bank strategies. It was built on a strong foundation of economic
and sector work on the Polish rural sector, carried out prior and during the preparation. The skill mix of
Bank team was very diverse and included staff and consultants from all relevant sectors.

The development objectives were reasonably set and attainable.           All of the components were well
documented and detailed in PAD and Operational Manual, procurement plans were carefully worked out,
and most cost calculations turned out to be very close to the actual unit costs. Institutional arrangements
were prepared in detail with a multi-layer horizontal and vertical implementation structure incorporating
coordination mechanisms, well fitted, though complex, for such a comprehensive program. The monitoring
and evaluation system was adequately designed to capture results from various relevant sectors and
institutions.

The commitment of the Borrower was strong in identification and preparation stages, including central,
regional and local governments, and project beneficiaries particularly. The stakeholder consultation process
was very extensive and involved all line ministries, regional authorities and agencies (VLO, RO ARMA),
gminas, academia and other donors, notably EU.

The key risks to the project were considered and mitigated to the extent possible, taking into account a very
volatile and dynamic environment in Poland at that time. The country had just applied for EU accession but
the exact date of joining was unknown; regional self-governments, so crucial in implementation of such a
decentralized project, had been established just one year earlier; implementation of the project started one
year before general elections; the notion of a rural though not only agricultural sector was also new.
Therefore, the preparation team had to work on the basis of certain assumptions regarding the real
implementation capacity of various entities, the extent to which public law could be adjusted to remove
implementation bottlenecks, and the amount and timing of EU funding which would replace project
funding, etc.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                    - 10 -

Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank team conducted supervision missions on a nearly quarterly
basis, responded promptly to the requests of the Government, and took a pragmatic approach to resolution
of outstanding issues. The supervision team included seasoned staff in the field and in headquarters. The
proposals developed together with the counterparts and calling for necessary adjustments and modifications
were reasonable and feasible to implement. One such example is the approach used to resolve a crisis with
financial flows. When the flow of funds was practically stalled in the beginning of implementation (2001)
due to cumbersome ax-ante procedures set up within MARD and MOF departments, the Bank promoted
the establishment of an inter-governmental team for resolution of this problem before it led to further
complications, including the potential cancellation of the project.

During project implementation, composition of the team changed several times on both sides, i.e.,
succession of four Bank team task leaders and in parallel, succession of four heads of the National Steering
Committee from the Government side. These changes, to some extent, affected institutional memory and
continuity in project supervision. However, they did not compromise achievement of project objectives.
The project had only one extension and the entire implementation period was 5 years, during which all key
project goals and results were accomplished.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification, preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in the preparation phase was satisfactory. The line ministries were heavily engaged
in shaping of the project. Particularly, regional (voivodships) and local (gminas) authorities were very keen
on taking on their responsibilities within the new, decentralized model of governance. However, the
comprehensiveness of the project did not eradicate a narrow sectoral approach of some ministerial staff.
The idea of rural development, without focusing on the agriculture, was often difficult to fully embrace at
that time. In this context, MARD probably did not have as much ownership of the project as would have
been desirable and appropriate, taking into account its key role, as the host of the PCU and supervisory
body of ARMA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory as demonstrated by its commitment,
appointment of key managers and timely provision of adequate counterpart funds. However, the National
Steering Committee did not meet all original expectations in regard to coordination and its foreseen
strategic role. Instead of being composed of key decision-makers, it was comprised predominantly of
delegated middle-level staff. Generally, the Government's performance could have been stronger in the
areas of financial flows, ex-ante control system, and coordination.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
On average, the performance of implementing agencies can be considered satisfactory. The implementation
structure included a wide range of agencies. At the central level these were: PCU (Project Coordination
Unit) located in MARD (Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development), MOLSP (Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy), MONES (Ministry of National Education and Sport), MIAPA (Ministry of Internal Affair
and Public Administration), MOF (Ministry of Finance), and BGK (Bank of National Economy). At the
regional level the implementing agencies included: VPIUs (Voivodship Project Implementation Unit), VLOs
(Voivodship Labor Offices) and branch offices of ARMA.




                                                     - 11 -

The PCU was relatively effective in terms of administrative processing of project activities, procurement,
disbursement, financial management, progress reporting, and records maintenance functions. However, it
was never empowered nor did it have the capacity to fully play its coordination role.

Project teams in MIAPA, MOLSP, and majority of Marshalek Offices (elected governors of voivodships)
and the VPIUs deserve high scores for being pro-active and effective, while the teams in MONES, ARMA,
MARD and BGK seemed to have lesser capacities, though mainly in the initial phases of implementation.
On balance, however, toward the end of the project, all organizations involved improved their performance
considerably and project implementation accelerated. Consequently, most of the institutions became also
engaged in the preparation and implementation of EU-supported operational programs.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory.              Throughout the project implementation period,
practically all involved agencies remained committed to the project and improved their own capacities,
necessary to achieve the RDP objectives and outcomes.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lessons learned from the implementation of the project can be summarized as follows:

·        A Project Coordination Unit based in a single line ministry cannot fully coordinate a national
multi-sectoral rural development project, nor would this be desirable. The implementation of multi-sectoral
projects is difficult to manage since an individual ministry/agency is not well positioned to play this role
vis a vis other line ministries which are equal in rank and cannot be subordinated to another sectoral
institution. Even if a multi-sectoral champion (e.g., in an Office of the Prime Minister) had enough
authority and motivation to coordinate the myriad of activities, exercising this authority would undermine
the evolution of regional and local governments' capacity and dedication to examining their communities'
specific problems, flexibly focusing project components on addressing these problems, and executing the
related activities.

·        Therefore, project design should place a maximum emphasis on decentralization of project
implementation, especially if political decentralization to elected regional and local governments is already
in place. The full range of project components and activities should be available to each region in
principle, with a National Project Steering Committee (NPSC) playing the role primarily of initially
allocating an envelope of funds, with the distribution across component/activities reconsidered by the
NPSC on the basis of requests from Regional Steering Committees. Line ministries should clearly play a
substantial role in the formation of project components and activities during project design, but during
implementation they should allow regional governments substantial leeway in adjusting the mix of project
activities. If regional governments are not elected, then there may be a stronger case for a greater scrutiny
of and rigidity in adjustment of project activities within a given region in order to avoid exclusive focus on
a particular component by such a region.

·        A corollary to the recommended focus on decentralized implementation is that procurement (even
for capacity building activities which emphasize a standardized approach) should be decentralized, with
centralization of procurement not exceeding the level of a group of four to five regions at most. Here, the
RDP's experience (as clearly documented in the Final Evaluation Study of the RDP) shows that gminas
effectively managed implementation of works tenders (under the Infrastructure and Education components),
and voivodships handled the training services tenders similarly well (under the Labor Redeployment
component). In contrast, the educational materials and training tenders managed at the central were quite
delayed (by roughly a year and a half) since they included all voivodships under unified contracts, for


                                                      - 12 -

which specifications (or terms of reference) had to be negotiated and renegotiated iteratively between all
voivodships. Clearly any positive effects (cost savings) of doing national-level contracts were offset by the
lengthy delays and high frustration of project beneficiaries these iterations caused.

·       There is potentially a trade-off between decentralization and a focus on poverty alleviation which
should be managed by clear qualification criteria for eligibility of local government units (communities) for
project participation. This is because regional governments will be naturally under pressure to allocate
access to project benefits widely across many local governments of varying need, unless the central
government specifies clear ranking and qualification criteria based on socio-economic information at the
local level. This lesson has been incorporated into the follow-on Post Accession Rural Support Project (in
which only the least developed 500 gminas are eligible to participate).

·       A web-based management information system (MIS), integrating local activities to the regional
level and regional summaries to the national level is a prerequisite for a fully representative monitoring and
evaluation system. Without such a standardized, secure, and constantly updated MIS (which can be set up
in a very cost-effective manner), the regional and an national coordinating bodies will not have sufficient
knowledge of decentralized implementation to be able to have confidence in it and demonstrate its results
convincingly.

·       An initial Bank project in rural development (or in any decentralized community focused project)
should view itself as primarily building capacity for subsequent scaling up through further Bank projects,
but especially through an allocation of a wider set of donor and state budget funds. Moreover, learning by
doing, initially through on-the-job style training, is likely the best method for capacity building. In this
regard, project components should strive to develop into national programs. In cases where such national
programs are designed already, project components should follow the design of national programs as much
as possible if they have been generally assessed positively. In either case, institutions at central, regional
and local authorities will substantially upgrade their capacity from becoming involved in a multi-sectoral
approach. The progress may be slow at first, but the pressure from local governments, through regional
governments, will ultimately serve as an engine for a process from which all involved will learn. This is the
experience of the RDP, which preceded and paved the way for the use of SAPARD, ESF, and other EU
structural funds for the benefit of a wide number of rural localities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
From the MARD PCU

The Rural Development Project (RDP) was prepared as one of the instruments to be used by the
Government of Poland to stimulate sustainable development of Polish rural areas in a
comprehensive way. The objectives were to generate employment off-farming in rural areas, to
support decentralization and improvement of local and regional administration performance as
well as to prepare people and institutions to gain the pre-accession assistance funds to be followed
by the structural funds of the European Union. It was a multi-sectoral project, implemented by
different ministries, and that is why it was really hard to coordinate all of the activities. The
Project Coordination Unit, established by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development,
with the agreement of the World Bank, played its role as a secretariat of the National Steering
Committee and as a coordinator of all implementation activities.




                                                       - 13 -

The bottom-up approach and decentralized structure of the project had advantages in
demand-driven selection of projects but, on the other hand, it made for a lot of complications in
coordination and "unifying" financial flow and reporting procedures. It made it more difficult since
the World Bank procedures are rigid and each change requested involvement of different officials
from the World Bank so it was a time consuming effort.

The RDP project teams were located in line ministries, and in each voivodship the project
implementation units were established, which caused a great challenge for the Project
Coordination Unit to synchronize those units not subordinated to the PCU. Due to creation of a
good "exchange of information" system, with usage of internet and to some extent automatic
databases, as well as often organization of coordination meetings, it was possible to work out an
efficient system of work.

In the course of project implementation, MARD delegated some competences to the PCU and
resigned from the ex-ante verification of applications for funds, which extremely speeded up the
flow of documents and funds.

The very good cooperation between PCU and the World Bank team, was only disturbed by the
necessity to get "no-objection" on almost each step of the procurement procedure, which
occurred to be a time consuming process. It is an element which could be taken into account in
the following World Bank loans to countries which have good procurement and bureaucratic (in a
positive meaning) systems such as Poland.

Despite the initial issues at the beginning of project implementation, the funds utilization totaled
Euro 117.4 million, which was 99% of the total value of the World Bank loan and the remaining
1% was put aside as a reserve. All of the objectives were reached and were achieved only by
extending the project by 11 months, taking into account that some crucial decisions (i.e. shifting
of funds from the reserve for the infrastructure development projects in B2-Education) on the
usage of funds were taken in the mid-term of project implementation.

One of the key effects of the project is that the strong institution and human capacities were built,
which resulted in intensive usage of people and institutions in the implementation of the EU
Structural Funds. As well, a brand new quality of cooperation between the local and
self-government authorities and public administration, with regard to the effective management
and use of funds for social and professional development of rural population, was created.

From the Ministry of Finance

Please find these general comments on the RDP but also in reference to projects generally
financed with World Bank loans. We fully agree that it is extremely difficult to prepare properly
and subsequently implement projects like RDP, which comprises many different components. An
additional difficulty in RDP is that funds were transferred in the form of grants for local
governments which are entities autonomous of the central administration. No doubt in such
complex projects, assuming that the rationale for implementing such a multi-component project
was properly analyzed, there is a need for an institution that could effectively coordinate, or even



                                                - 14 -

be empowered to make binding decisions.

In RDP this role was to be played to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Also the
National Project Steering Committee was an important agency. It should be noted that the
sessions of the Committee, which functioned based on its internal regulations, were held with
ministers representing individual ministries, or with appropriately authorized representatives of
such ministries (the Ministry of Finance was always represented by appropriately authorized
representatives; the scope of their authorization covered also the right to make decisions).
Considering the above, the comment relating to the Committee (page 12) may be inappropriate.
Also from the practical point of view it is hard to expect competent ministers to attend all
committee sessions.
The key point, however, is the existence of one entity/agency assuming responsibility for the
implementation of the whole project. This role should be played each time by the minister whose
competence covers the subject of the project. This will not only allow ownership of the Project,
but may also simplify the implementation of projects. This coordination and consultative function
absolutely cannot be performed by project coordination units like the
RDP PCU.

The RDP PCU was a supporting unit outside the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development. It seems coordination units should be established in future projects within the
structures of the administration. Obviously, there is a question whether administrative staff have
the qualifications required to coordinate the implementation of projects. It appears, however, that
the administration's employees are well prepared for project implementation in all those cases
where Polish procedures and regulations on project implementation are applicable (including the
regulations on the budget). It should be remembered that although these funds come from a loan,
they are still public or budgetary funds and have to be spent in accordance with the Polish
regulations which the employees of individual ministries must and do know.

This leads to the role of the World Bank whose policy should be aimed at allowing the use of
Polish regulations to the broadest extent possible - this will facilitate the implementation of
projects significantly. A major argument in favor of assigning coordination functions to the
administration, instead of external units such as PCU in RDP, is the opportunity to gain
experience and knowledge during the implementation of projects which can be later used in the
next projects. This is extremely important to the Polish side.

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information




                                                - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of jobs created outside agriculture    End of project target: 44,000             22,479 jobs created directly through project
                                                                                        support; 65,000 indirectly through the
                                                                                        Infrastructure component
Number of enterprises created                 End of project target: 2,000              5,060 newly created enterprises
Cost per job created in a small enterprise    End of project target: $5,000             $3,000 on average cost per job
Cost per enterprise established               End of project target: $15,000            $9,401 average cost per new enterprise


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Comp A: Microcredit

 Number of micro-loans disbursed              End of project target: 2,700              4,655 micro-credits disbursed
Number of grants provided to the start-ups    End of project target: 1,500              2,944 new enterprises received grant support
Sub-component B-1- Labor Redeployment

Number of trained program participants who    End of project target: 13,500             14,527 of those trained have found jobs
found employment


Sub-component B-2 ­ Education

Number of school directors and teachers       End of project target: 15,000             748 school directors; 8,231 teachers; and,
trained (including teachers and staff trained                                           5,404 teachers and 1,012 IT staff trained in
in info. technology)                                                                    IT; total equals 15,395

Number of rehabilitated schools               End of project target: 100                2018 schools were rehabilitated



Sub-component B-3 - Institution Building in
Local and Regional Administrations

Number of local government units              End of project target: 540                595 LG units trained (with total 4,195 trained
participating in LG Training Program                                                    staff)

Number of local government units for which    End of project target: 33                 33 LG units benefited from the institutional
institutional analysis was prepared                                                     analysis


Component C ­ Infrastructure                  End of project target:
Number of new or rehabilitated infrastructure Roads built: 560 km;                      750 km roads built;
                                              Water connections established: 9,600;     11,818 water connections established;
                                              Solid waste capacity established: 200,000 138,926 m³ of solid waste capacity
                                              m3;                                       established;
                                              Sewerage plants constructed: 350          236 sewerage plants built

1End of project




                                                                - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Costs By Component PAD Estimates PAD Estimates                             New limits     Final Expenditures
                                          (Million US$)     (Million EUR)       determined during     31/08/05,
                                                                                implementation*   (Million EUR)**
                                                                                 (Million EUR)


A. Microcredit                                19.05              18.86                16.84             16.45
                                              (12.50)            (12.38)             (11.05)            (11.03)


B1. Labor Redeployment                        44.84              44.39                32.38             31.06
                                              (22.70)            (22.47)             (16.39)            (16.28)


B2. Education                                 24.67              24.42                61.36             79.01
                                              (13.30)            (13.17)             (33.08)            (32.07)


B3. Institution Building in Local             12.62              12.49                10.08              9.71
and Regional Administrations
                                              (10.10)            (10.00)              (8.07)            (8.07)


C. Rural infrastructure                       194.89             192.94              155.31             118.91
                                              (57.17)            (56.60)             (45.56)            (45.56)


D. Project Management                          3.77               3.73                4.01               4.86
                                              (3.03)             (3.00)               (3.22)            (3.17)


Front-end-fee                                  1.20               1.18                1.19               1.19


Total                                         301.04             298.03              281.17             261.18
                                             (120.00)           (118.80)             (118.57)          (117.36)


Unallocated/unused                                                                    0.23               1.37
                                                                                      (0.23)            (1.37)


Grand total                                   301.04             298.03              281.40             262.55
                                             (120.00)           (118.80)             (118.80)          (118.74)
* Funds were reallocated by National Steering Committee during implementation time
** Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts of WB loan funds




                                                           - 17 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (PAD estimate)
(in million US$, $1= PLN 4.27)
                                    ICB         NCB           N.B.F      Other
Expenditure Category                                                              Total Cost
                                                                         7.36         7.36
Works                                                                    (3.09)      (3.09)
                                    2.90                                  7.63      10.53
Goods                              (2.90)                                (3.40)     (6.30)
                                                                         29.22       29.22
Services and Training                                                   (23.01)     (23.01)
Rural Infrastructure                                                    177.39      177.39
                                                                       (54.54)      (54.54)
Credit Lines and Grants                                        2.90      13.89       16.79
                                                              (0.00)    (10.42)     (10.42)
Labor Redeployment                                                       40.71       40.71
                                                                        (19.87)     (19.87)
Recurrent and O&M                                            16.36       1.99        18.35
                                                             (0.00)     (1.57)       (1.57)
                                    2.90                     19.26      278.19     300.35
GRAND TOTAL                        (2.90)                    (0.00)    (115.90)   (118.80)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts of WB loan funds


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (final)

(in mln US$ according to average exchange rate as of Oct. 11, 2005, $1= PLN 3.19)
                                       ICB             NCB           Other
 Expenditure Category                                                           Total Cost
                                                      110.14         108.80      218.94
Works                                                 (38.97)        (43.71)     (82.68)
                                       8.07                           6.69        14.76
Goods                                 (5.08)                         (3.30)       (8.38)
                                       0.66                          23.34        24.00
Services and Training                 (0.41)                         (18.99)     (19.40)
Labor Redeployment                                                   27.84        27.84
                                                                     (13.64)     (13.64)
                                       8.73          110.14          166.67      285.54
GRAND TOTAL                           (5.49)         (38.97)        (79.64)      (124.10)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts of WB loan funds




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Analysis

The RDP's economic and fiscal impact is assessed below using largely the same methodology as put forth
during the appraisal of the RDP. This looks at the degree to which the RDP's components engendered job
placement and creation and the varying costs of achieving this employment growth. Overall, the RDP
managed to promote the movement of unemployed and new labor market entrants into an estimated 87,000
jobs, with an average cost in public funds spent of roughly EUR 3,000 each. This is substantially lower
than US$5,000 per job level of expenditure which was defined by the RDP PAD Annex 1 as a benchmark
for creating jobs in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the unit costs of various project components
compare favorably with the cost-effectiveness benchmarks set by the RDP PAD. Building on these
findings, the economic analysis then also goes beyond the methodology of the RDP PAD and has estimated
an overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the RDP of 23%.

Table 3.1 ­ Job Creation by Component and Associated Expenditures

Component                   Directly   Indirectly    Targeted Job Total Actual RDP             Actual RDP
                            Created      Created     Placement and       Expenditures,      Expenditures Per
                              Jobs        Jobs         Creation           1000 EUR         Job Created, EUR
A. Microcredit                   2,961            -             2,700             16,450                1,050*
B1. Labor                       14,527            -           13,500              31,060                2,138
Redeployment
B2. Education                         -           -                               79,010                     -
B3. Institution                       -           -                                9,710                     -
Building in Local
and Regional
Administrations
C. Rural                         4,991      64,480            27,800             118,905                1,712
infrastructure
 D. Project                           -           -                                6,050                     -
Management
Total                           22,479      64,480            44,000             261,185                3,004
*Project expenditures less loan repayments
.

As Table 3.1 shows, over 2,900 jobs were created through micro-credits under Component A, exceeding
the level planned at project appraisal (2,700 jobs planned). The cost of creation of one job in these small
businesses was on average about EUR 1,050 ( from "Final Evaluation Study of the Rural Development Project",
Jaroslav Malec, p. 365) compared to the estimated cost of 15,600 PLN ($3,650) each in the RDP PAD.
Every second micro-credit (out of total 4,655) was for a new enterprise and according to the survey
conducted among the entrepreneurs, after a year of operation, the survival rate of the new small businesses
stood at a very high level of 93%( "Final Evaluation Study", p. 365) in comparison with the minimal rate
targeted by the RDP PAD of 59%. Thus, the results for Component A show that job creation through
micro-credits was achieved in a cost effective manner.

As a result of the Labor Redeployment program (Component B1), 14,527 unemployed individuals who
received support became employed (again higher than the 13,500 planned at the appraisal stage). The
retraining helped immediately to find jobs for 31% of participants, while employment services placed 15%



                                                     - 19 -

of people. All 6 business incubators for the start-ups and 157 business assistance centers continued their
operation after one year from their establishment. Though the RDP PAD did not explicitly develop a cost
effectiveness target for job creation under Component B1, the implicit average cost target was a maximum
of EUR 3,300 (EUR 44.4 million for 13,500 jobs). Thus, the results of Component B1 show (in Table 3.1)
that actual costs per job placement through the various labor redeployment interventions was about 35%
less than the targeted rate.

Under Component B2, a number of cost-effectiveness benchmarks were set by the RDP PAD. As Table
3.2 shows, these were all met, many with a wide margin of cost savings. In addition, the spread effect of
the B2 component was much larger than planned at project appraisal, since more than 2000 schools and
almost 4,200 classrooms were rehabilitated (compared with targeted levels of 100 schools and 348
classrooms). Thus, despite the large scaling-up of the component during project implementation, the
targeted measures of cost effectiveness were kept clearly in sight and successfully reached.

Table 3.2 Cost Effectiveness Measures for Component B2 ­ Education Modernization

 Activity                        Targeted            Achieved         Targeted        Actual Unit Cost
                                 Volume                Volume         Unit Cost
Teacher Training            15,000                15,395               1,200 PLN     760 PLN (IT training)
                                                                                      1100 PLN (General)
 Improvement of             111 common            1374 common             $3,900                  $2,733
 School Equipment           rooms                 rooms
 Introduction of            600                   746                     $7,320                  $7,105
 Teaching Aids
 (HW & SW packages)
 Improvement of             100 schools,          2018 schools,          $52,000                $29,732
 School Facilities          348 classrooms        4164 classrooms


Although the prime impact indicator formulated for the RDP was that of off-farm job creation, and the
largest component deployed directly at this aim was the Infrastructure Component, the RDP PAD did not
specify directly a cost effectiveness target for job creation under Component C. However, by subtracting
the targeted job placement and creation targets from the total employment creation targeted of 44,000 for
the RDP as a whole, the implicit target of 27,800 jobs for the Infrastructure component becomes clear.
Given the planned size of the component (US$ 195 million), the implicit cost per job assumed by the RDP
PAD as the relevant cost effectiveness target was US$7,000, though this was reduced during the initial year
of project implementation to US$5,000 (when the targets in Annex 1 to the PAD were set quantitatively in
consultation with the RDP Project Coordination Unit.)

Direct job creation under Component C was tracked during project implementation, amounting to almost
5,000 jobs (involved primarily in construction and operation and maintenance of infrastructure). However
the measurement of indirect employment creation which was engendered by enterprise expansion and new
enterprise development has been estimated recently as lagged effects have had time to be manifest. In
addition, only in 2005 did adequate employment data become available. The sample for the econometric
estimations below was 226 powiats, in which 480 out of the 845 gminas participating in the RDP
infrastructure component. Still, data limitations have necessitated a rather crude model which uses a
measure of employment in 2001 and 2003, as well as base level (2001) infrastructure levels and
infrastructure expenditures which have been funded under the RDP. Two drawbacks exist: first,
micro-enterprise employment data are not available since the employment data cover only enterprises that
employ more than 9 persons; secondly, data on non-project infrastructure expenditures in 2002-2003 are



                                                      - 20 -

not available.

Thus, the model used specifies employment levels in powiats in 2003 as a function of their infrastructure
endowments in 2001, participation in the B1 component (number of unemployed receiving training), and
the infrastructure investments executed under the RDP Component The econometric results (re-produced
below) show that Component C infrastructure expenditures were a significant explanatory factor in
employment growth in medium and large enterprises over 2001-2003. In total, these expenditures on
infrastructure investments indirectly created roughly 60,000 jobs (at a cost of roughly EUR 1,700 per job,
again compared to an average cost expected at appraisal of $5,000 each). This estimate of 60,000 jobs is
arrived at from the parameter estimate from the regression analysis results (Table 3.3 below). This highly
significant parameter estimate shows that for every million PLN spent by the participating powiat under
Component C, the employment level in the powiat is higher by 373 jobs (in medium and large enterprises
with more than 9 employees).

Since the regression cannot take account of other infrastructure investments made by participating gminas
in the powiats, and it is known that gminas on average financed about 30-50% of their infrastructure
investments under RDP-supported projects, it can be inferred that each million PLN of RDP Component C
expenditures were associated with increased employment levels of roughly 150 jobs. Given that total
expenditures (loan and gmina and powiat co-financing) under Component C totaled 432.2 million PLN
(EUR 118.9 million), the total number of jobs supported by Component C was roughly 64,500 (373 X 0.4
X 432.2 = 64,454).

Table 3.3 - 2003 Employment as Explained by Infrastructure Stocks and RDP Support

Number of observations                          =        226
R-squared                                       =        0.2790
Adjusted R-squared                              =        0.2559


Explanatory Variable                         Coefficient             t-stat                P>t

People-trained under B1                       0.4214725               0.97               0.332
Investment-under C                             0.000373               3.02               0.003
Powiat-roads                                   2.255733               1.33               0.184
Gmina-roads                                    1.623207               1.34               0.181
Water                                         -1.759895              -0.27               0.787
Sewerage                                        10.8852               0.88               0.382
Gas-lines                                       23.1143               4.21               0.000
Constant                                       1299.456               1.74               0.084




Clearly, the quantification of the impact of improved teacher qualifications, educational materials, and
better physical education infrastructure on the quality of labor force and its employability can only be
evaluated in the longer-term perspective. Nevertheless, even without examining the longer term
employment and investment impact of the Infrastructure and Education components the total job creation
achieved by the RDP amounts to roughly 22,500 jobs directly and 64,500 jobs indirectly. This exceeds the
total expected level at appraisal of 44,000 jobs.




                                                    - 21 -

Economic Rate of Return

Despite the fact that it is too early to fully measure the benefits of the RDP's long-term impact (especially
from the Institutional Building and Education components), an ex-post cost benefit analysis and an
economic rate of return calculation have been conducted. This simple analysis incorporates the
employment impacts of components A, B1 and C detailed above. The benefits of the project were
calculated in terms of the value added brought to the economy through jobs created As there were no
impacts yet assessed for jobs created for Components B2, B3 and D, ERRs for these components could not be
computed. and it was conservatively assumed that each job that was created would be maintained for three
years. The calculation of value added was based on a monthly wage of 1500 PLN (4500 Euro annually)
times the number of jobs created. Since lower wages pertain in rural areas than the rest of the economy,
this level of monthly wage was set at only 70 percent of the national average wage. Calculated in this way,
the annual benefits of the 87,000 jobs is on the order of 390 million Euro.

Table 3.4 - Economic Rate of Return Analysis

       Component                 Total         Total Expenditures, RDP         Annual Benefit from
                                Created          + Private Investment           Total Created Jobs
                                 Jobs                (1000 EUR)                     (1000 EUR)
 A. Microcredit                  2,961                   24,826                        13,325
 B1. Labor                                              124,240
 Redeployment                   14,527                                                 65,372
B2. Education                       -                    79,010                           -
B3. Institution                                          9,710
Building in Local and
Regional
Administrations                     -                                                     -
C. Rural                                                475,620
Infrastructure                  69,471                                                312,620
D. Project                                               6,050
Management                          -                                                     -
 Total                          86,959                  719,456                       391,316

On the cost side, the analysis used all project costs incurred (loan funds and other government contributions
at all levels) plus an assumed investment contribution made by the private sector in creating the jobs
associated with the A, B1, and C components. It was assumed that the private sector contribution was at
least 3 times higher than the project funds spent per job under the A, B1, and C components. It was also
assumed that there was a one year lag between the costs incurred and the benefits attained (i.e., jobs
created). Specifically for Component A, repayments made by the micro-credit beneficiaries were deducted
from the project funds spent in order to arrive at a net cost (of public funds) per job created. Though no
benefits were included for components B2, B3, or D, their costs were included in the overall economic rate
of return of the project. Total costs calculated in this way were roughly 720 million Euro.

With the allocation of costs and benefits in their relevant years over the project implementation and in
2006-2007 as the jobs created last through their third year, calculations of the economic rates of return
have been made for components A, B1, and C. Table 3.4 indicates that these ERRs are similar, all in the
27-31% range. This reflects the fact that the differences in RDP project expenditures per job by



                                                      - 22 -

component are evened out by the much larger simulated private sector costs per job created. When the
costs of components B2, B3, and D are added into the calculation, the overall ERR for the project is 23%.

Table 3.5 - Net Benefit and ERR (1000 EUR)
       Component           2000     2001         2002        2003      2004        2005      2006       2007    ERR (%)
A. Microcredit                  0          0       -4965       -7265     -1936      13325      10660       5330     28%
B1. Labor Redeployment          0    -12424       -18311      -17661    -10473      58834      45760     26149      27%
C. Rural Infrastructure         0    -95124       -80162      -96462    124379     234465     203203    125048      31%
TOTAL                        -605   -108758      -116433     -146235     77214     286266     259622    156526      23%



Fiscal Impact

The fiscal benefit of creating one new job has been examined by assuming that creating new jobs reduces
the number of unemployed accordingly, and then by summing the foregone expenditures for unemployment
benefits, increased tax income, and additional social security premiums paid by those newly employed.
Depending on the wages received by the newly employed person, the value of annual fiscal benefit of
creating one new job, for the 2003 data, was in the range of PLN 4,582 to 11,852. Details are given in the
table below. Given the average cost to the Project of US$ 3,000 (roughly 12,000 PLN) per job created, it
is clear that if the new jobs created last for at least two to three years, the fiscal impact will be positive.
The Final Evaluation Study of the RDP indicates that this is likely to be the case.

Table 3.6 - Fiscal Impact
                                                              Minimum wage (PLN) Average wage (PLN)
Increased taxes and ZUS premiums                             3 263                      10 533
Spared cost of the unemployment benefit                      1 320                      1 320
Total fiscal benefit                                         4 582                      11 852
Source: Final Evaluation Study of the Rural Development Project, 2005.




                                                        - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              March 28-April          13     Task Team Leader, Advisor,             S               S
              21, 1999                       Agriculture Economist ,
                                             Micro-Credit Specialists,
                                             Education Specialists,
                                             Procurement Specialist, Financial
                                             Mgmt Specialists, Infrastructure
                                             Specialists

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November 2-8,           10     Task Team Leader,                      S               S
              1999                           Agriculture Economist ,
                                             Micro-Credit Specialist,
                                             Education Specialists,
                                             Procurement Specialist,
                                             Financial Mgmt Specialists,
                                             Infrastructure Specialists

 Supervision
              May 10-12, 2000          14    Task Team Leader, Deputy               S               S
              (project launch                Task Leader, Employment
              workshop)                      Specialist, Financial
                                             Specialist, Micro-Credit
                                             Specialist, Education
                                             Specialists, Institution
                                             Building Specialist, Local
                                             Administration Specialist,
                                             Procurement Specialist,
                                             Financial Mgmt
              December 5-12,            7    Task Team Leader, Deputy Task          S               S
              2000                           Leader, Infrastructure Specialist,
                                             Education Specialists, Project
                                             Coordinator, Labor
                                             Redeployment Specialist
              June 4-15, 2001          10    Task Team Leader, Deputy Task          S               S
                                             Leader, Infrastructure Specialist,
                                             Education Specialists, Project
                                             Coordinator, Procurement
                                             Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                                             Specialist, Portfolio Manager,
                                             Labor Redeployment Specialists
              November 27 ­            10    Task Team Leader, Deputy Task          S               S
              December 7, 2001               Leader, Infrastructure Specialist,
                                             Education Specialist, Project
                                             Coordinator, Procurement
                                             Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                                             Specialist, Portfolio Manager, PR
                                             Specialist, Labor Redeployment



                                              - 24 -

                        Specialist
February 18-28 &     4  Task Team Leader, Project             S    S
March 28, 2002          Coordinator, Institution Building
                        Specialist, Labor Redeployment
                        Specialist
May 13-14, 2002      3  Task Team Leader, Project             S    S
                        Coordinator, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialist
June 10-21, 2002     13 Task Team Leader, Deputy Task         S    S
(Mid- Term              Leader, Infrastructure Specialists,
Review)                 Education Specialists, Project
                        Coordinator, Procurement
                        Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialists, Labor Redeployment
                        Specialist, Micro-credit
                        Specialist, JPA
November 29 -        12 Task Team Leader, Deputy Task         S    S
December 23, 2002       Leader, Infrastructure Specialist,
                        Education Specialist, Project
                        Coordinator, Procurement
                        Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialist, Portfolio Manager,
                        Public Information Specialist,
                        Labor Redeployment Specialist,
                        Micro-credit Specialist,
                        Institution Building Specialist
May 12 -21, 2003     9  Task Team Leader, Deputy Task         S    S
                        Leader, Infrastructure Specialist,
                        Education Specialists, Project
                        Coordinator, Procurement
                        Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialists, Institution Building
                        Specialist
September 8-19,      8  Task Team Leader, Education           S    S
2003                    Specialists, Infrastructure
                        Specialist, Procurement
                        Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialist, Labor Redeployment
                        Specialist, Project Coordinator
November 4-6,        4  Task Team Leader, Procurement         S    S
2003                    Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialist, Project Coordinator
December 8-17,       8  Task Team Leader, Education           S    S
2003                    Specialists, Infrastructure
                        Specialist, Procurement
                        Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialist, Labor Redeployment
                        Specialist, Project Coordinator
July 13-23, 2004     7  Task Team Leader, Education           S    S
                        Specialist, Infrastructure
                        Specialist, Procurement
                        Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                        Specialist, Labor Redeployment



                        - 25 -

                                              Specialist, Project Coordinator
               March 9-17, 2005          6    Task Team Leader, Education         S    S
                                              Specialists, Procurement
                                              Specialist, Financial Mgmt
                                              Specialist, Project Coordinator

 ICR
               June 5-9, 2005           5     Task Team Leader,                   S    S
                                              Education Specialists,
                                              Financial Mgmt Specialist,
                                              Project Coordinator



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               242                            1,608
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      74                             496
  Supervision                              221                            1,485
  ICR                                        10                              35
  Total                                    547                            3,624




                                              - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Rural Development Project PAD, Report No. 20197 POL

2.Rural Development Project Quarterly Project Management Reports, Nos. 1-18, through May 13, 2005.

3. Final Evaluation Study of the Rural Development Project, June 2005, by the Consortium of Doradca
Consultants, Instytut Spraw Publicznych, and
Proeko Ltd.




                                                - 29 -

- 30 -

