Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20197 POL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$120 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 11, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/08/1999)
Currency Unit = PLN
PLN I= US$ 0.2340
US$ I = PLN4.2730
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Piotr M. Wilczynski



POLAND
POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      I1
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          20
2. Financial                                                                          23
3. Technical                                                                          25
4. Institutional                                                                      25
5. Environmental                                                                      29
6. Social                                                                             31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 34
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    34
2. Critical risks                                                                     34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     34



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            37
2. Other                                                                              37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          38
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          40
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         83
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           84
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   107
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      108
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    120
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  122
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 123
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           125
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                             127
Annex 12: Social and Monitoring Indicators                                              134
Annex 13: Social Data Sheet                                                             141
Annex 14: Environmental Data Sheet                                                      154
Annex 15: Lessons Learned from Multi-sector Projects
MAP(S)
Acronyms
ARMA          Agency for the Recontruction and Modernization of Agriculture
ASAL          Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BGK          National Economy Bank (Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego)
EU            European Union
FA            Funding Agreement
FAPA          Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture
GUS           Main Statistical Office
IDP           Institutional Development Program
IFA           Implementation Funding Agreement
KHF           Know How Fund
LGPP          Local Government Partnership Program
MARD          Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MEP           Minsitry of Environment
MIAPAMinistry of Interior and Public Administration
MIS           Management Information System



POLAND
POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: March 21, 2000                              Team Leader: Piotr M. Wilczynski
Country Manager/Director: Basil G. Kavalsky       Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P058202                               Sector(s): BD - Decentralization, EY - Other Education,
SE - Labor Markets & Employment, TR - Rural Roads, WR
- Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): RURAL DEVELOPMENT
1-                                                Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         O Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee    O Other (Specif')
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 120 (EURm 118.80)
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
*Firacn Pln   -~nz                                            ac. Kf -  :  o ig    --   -J
Government                                                    22.91            3.10         26.01
IBRD                                                          72.35           47.65        120.00
IDA
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                            125.65          25.74        151.39
OTHER PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                                1.80           1.84          3.64
Total:                                                       222.72           78.32        301.04
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF POLAND
Responsible agency: MARD, MINISTRY OF FINANCE, SELF-GOVERNMENTS
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Interior and
Public Administration
Address: Ul. Wspolna 30
00-930 Warsaw
Contact Person: Andrzej Halasiewicz
Tel: 48-22-623-1655                Fax: 48-22-628-9387                Email:
A.Halasiewicz(rminrol.gov.pl



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
.  ,  ,.            2 ..  . ...
Annual     3.4          27.1        45.2        32.9        11.4
Cumulative     3.4         30.5         75.7       108.6       120.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 05/01/2000  Expected closing date:  07/31/2004
OCS PAD Po-m  -  Mi  l,
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Amnex 1)
Background
Unemployment in Rural Areas. Unemployment in Poland remains a key issue. Even though the
unemployment rate has fallen in the last five years from 16.4% to 12. 1%, it is unequally distributed across
regions. In addition, because of the high degree of over-employment in agriculture, unemployment in rural
areas is expected to increase in the medium to long run. In the post-reform period, agriculture has served as
a buffer accommodating excess labor in the economy, therefore creating a high share of hidden
unemployment in rural areas. In the process of Poland's accession to the EU, the farming system will need
to be reformed, and the number of people employed in agriculture will have to be reduced to make the
sector competitive with other EU countries. Unemployment in rural areas will then rise because of the
additional outflow of labor from agriculture. In addition, there is a higher proportion of youth and children
in Poland's rural areas than in cities, and young adults are surprising immobile, so issues of job creation
and relevant education are particularly critical in rural areas. The following main issues have been
identified as obstacles to the creation of off-farm jobs in rural areas.
Little Support for Private Sector Activities. Since the early 1990s, the fastest growth in durable
employment in Poland has been in Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) concentrated in urban areas.
SNMEs provide almost 4.8 million jobs, 83% of total registered employment in the private sector, and almost
60% of all employment in the country. These enterprises have reasonable access to bank credit, although
lack of collateral and failure to present bankable business plans often stand in the way of obtaining
commercial credit. The sector is supported by a large number of institutions and agencies for SME
promotion and development. However, the SME sector and its support structure are concentrated in urban
areas. Rural areas, so far, have not seen this small enterprise sector develop to the same extent because of
constraints to entrepreneurship, including the limited availability of banking services, the reluctance of
many rural dwellers to deal with banks and the limited collateral value of most rural properties.
Low Level of Human Capital Development. Some segments of the rural population possess
entrepreneurial spirit, but lack skills. A large number of both youth and adults are structurally unemployed
as a result of having insufficient, unmarketable, and/or outdated skills that are no longer needed in the local
or regional labor market. The current reform of education has been designed to address some of these
issues. The proposed changes in school curriculum, teaching, management and financing are designed to
make education more flexible and responsive to the demands of the workplace and the local community.
Gminas (villages and townships) have now the responsibility for managing pre-school and education for the
first nine grades, therefore they will play an important role in implementing this reform. Since most rural
gminas have limited administrative and managerial capacity in this field, they will need assistance in
implementing the reform.
Lack of Expertise in Local and Regional Administrations. Since January 1999, Poland has implemented
a comprehensive reform of the public administration by decentralizing public services and finances to two
new levels of self-government: powiats (counties) and voivodships (regions or provinces). In addition, the
government administration in the voivodship has been deeply reshaped. Most of the tasks previously
undertaken by the Voivoda (the representative of the Council of Ministers in the voivodship) have been
shifted to the new levels of self-governments. The decentralization of public services and finances to local
self-governments is placing great demands on public administrators, especially in rural areas. Councilors
- 3 -



and board members in rural areas often do not have the necessary organizational and managerial skills.
There are new functions to administer and new processes to apply. Moreover, local and regional
administrators have insufficient capacity to implement EU pre-accession adjustments, therefore affecting
the possibility for rural areas to absorb EU pre-accession and structural funds.
Need for Upgrading Infrastructure. Inadequate infrastructure is one of the most significant barriers to the
development of rural areas. The rural road network system is underdeveloped, and needs rehabilitation and
expansion. Water supply networks and facilities need to be developed, or in many cases replaced and
modernized. Proper wastewater collection (either on site, or off site with a collection network) and
treatment are lacking. Poor wastewater disposal practices are not only a threat to the environment and
health, but also to the regions' ability to attract investment, which requires at least minimally acceptable
conditions. Storage in landfills is the common method of disposing of solid waste in rural areas, but many
communities lack landfills or have facilities that do not fulfill legal, safety and sanitary requirements. The
organizational and institutional structures and the regulatory environment do not support the efficient
delivery of services, which results in unaffordable higher unit costs. As a result services either are
subsidized or remain delivered below acceptable standards.
Government's Strategy for Rural Development. The government recognizes the current and potentially
worsening problem of rural unemployment. The new objectives of its policy regarding rural regions
incorporate four main and complementary directions: i) the improvement of working and living conditions;
ii) the support for the creation of new jobs by the private sector; iii) the acceleration of the restructuring of
the farming sector; and iv) the protection of the environment. The Government puts emphasis on
coordinated efforts by policy makers (agriculture, finance, labor, education, administration and
environment protection), and consolidating various programs directed to rural areas to achieve synergy
effects in economic development. The Government realizes that the challenge to restructure and adjust
Polish agriculture to operate competitively in the European Union is closely related to multi-functional
development of rural areas.
Poland's current rural development policy prioritizes actions and measures which will effectively remove
the most severe obstacles for private investment initiatives in rural areas. These include (i) helping the
private sector to identify opportunities for investment, (ii) enhancing present labor force quality and
adjusting working population skills to both market economy and to the potential needs of private investors
in rural areas, and investing in the future labor force by improving education quality for children, (iii)
raising quality of public administration in rural areas, (iv) building of new and upgrading existing public
infrastructure, and (v) providing technical assistance for localities necessary to identify and coordinate
public investment efforts.
Agriculture Policy Framework. The government has requested the Bank's assistance in financing a Rural
Development Project (RDP), that will address the issues mentioned above. The RDP has not been designed
to be an agriculture project. The project does not aim at improving agricultural production, but will seek to
provide an answer to the problem of the outflow of labor force from agriculture. The government has
developed a strategy for agriculture and one of its main instruments to achieve efficiency is to reduce the
number of people employed in the sector. This project will therefore help the government with this objective
by creating off-farm employment.
Bank Support for Rural Development to Date. Since 1990, the Bank has had a number of operations in
various rural sub-sectors. This includes an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan of US$300 million
(ASAL), two agricultural credit projects of US$100 million each, a forestry project of US$146 million, and
two investment projects of DEM28 million and DEM20 million respectively, to finance the construction of
- 4 -



wholesale markets in Gdansk and Lublin. The Bank has over the past nine years developed its policy
dialogue on the basis of i) the recommendations by a joint task force comprising representatives of the
Polish Government, the European Union and the World Bank; ii) the negotiations of the ASAL; and iii) a
series of in-depth studies on agriculture (in particular as part of the preparation of the Country Economic
Memorandum of 1997), as well as on rural development which included two main efforts: one proposing a
general framework for rural development in Poland (the final report entitled "Competitiveness and
Employment" was discussed with representatives of the central and regional governments in 1998). The
second provided support to several voivodships (regions) of Northern Poland in preparing their regional
development policies (1997 and 1998), summarized in a series of reports entitled "Northern Poland
Regional Development." As a result of this long involvement with agriculture and rural institutions, the
Bank has developed a substantial knowledge of the sector, and of local government conditions in Poland.
Among the emerging issues and risks on which special attention is currently paid, the Bank is focusing on:
i) growing income disparities and inequalities which raise questions about the adequacy of the social safety
net and which could lead to the emergence of hard core poverty, especially in depressed rural areas; ii) the
ability of Poland to manage the restructuring of the agriculture sector in preparation for the transition to the
EU; and iii) improving the effectiveness of the state administration to act as a policy regulator of the
agriculture and rural areas and its capacity to comply with EU rules and procedures. Finally, a review of
the functioning of the factor and product markets in agriculture is being prepared in order to help the
Government identify institutional and policy issues in agriculture (including land market issues), and
facilitate the development of more effective instruments to promote major adjustments in the sector.
The RDP fits into the past and present strategy of the Bank, and follows the Medium-Term Strategy for
Agriculture and Rural Development, which is the continuation of the Agricultural Strategy for Poland,
elaborated in 1990 by a task force consisting of representatives of the World Bank, the European Union
and Polish experts.
Purpose of the RDP. The RDP has been designed to provide medium-term support to the development of
the rural sector in Poland. The RDP will contribute to (i) increase the level of off-farm employment in rural
areas, (ii) contribute to the on-going decentralization of self-government and regional development, and (iii)
assist Poland in building institutional capacity to absorb EU pre-accession and structural funds.
As the project is implemented, the results will be evaluated, and the lessons learned might guide the design
of subsequent projects.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex l)
The project will be evaluated against the following outcome indicators:
* Number ofjobs outside agriculture created in project gminas, as compared to non-project gminas
* Cost per job created
* Increase in non-agricultural income in project gminas
* Number of enterprises established
* Guidelines in place and regional assistance provided to rural gminas in analyzing, preparing and
implementing projects
Output indicators for each component are specified in Annex 1.
- 5 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R97-66[IFC R97-47]                     Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/16/99
One of the CAS' four main objectives is to sustain private sector growth, by increasing private sector
participation in infrastructure development, especially in those sectors that might not find adequate
financing such as rural development and environmental investments, and strengthening human capital
growth. Bank lending activities should focus on improving the education system, including preschool and
vocational training. Another key objective of the Bank's strategy in Poland is to improve the
competitiveness of Polish agriculture and agro-industry. The Bank will support Poland in its reform agenda
for rural development, that includes the promotion of non-farm rural activities through build-up of local
governments and institutions, training and selective infrastructure investment. This project will address
each one of these objectives.
The project will follow the approach suggested in the CAS by focusing on education and the design of
sustainable programs of rural development, areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage and which
are not likely to be covered by other IFIs and donors, and by developing such programs in partnership with
central and local governments, local communities, NGOs and the EU. In particular, new possibilities for
co-financing environmental and local infrastructure projects with EU will be explored.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In 1997, a Bank discussion paper identified three main themes that should underlie the policy dialogue on
agriculture and rural development between the Bank and the Polish government: (i) competitiveness of
Polish agriculture and EU accession; (ii) rural development and rural poverty; and (iii) rural finance. A
subsequent workshop and a project identification mission followed up on this, and responded to a request
from the government to consider two main issues: alleviation of rural unemployment, and consideration of
ways and means to continue support for the program of rural infrastructure development formerly financed
with ASAL derived resources. As a result of this mission, it was agreed with the government to prepare a
rural development program that would seek to mitigate unemployment, in part through direct measures
such as training, technical assistance and financial support to entrepreneurs, and in part through continued
development of rural infrastructure to help create the necessary preconditions for sustainable economic
growth in rural areas.
The RDP will contribute to Poland's national program of rural development, described in the Poland's
Medium-Term Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Areas Development (April, 1998), and to the Bank's
strategy for rural development in Poland.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key sector issue addressed by the project is rural development, aiming at the creation of off-farm
employment. It was decided to design the project on the basis of the different approaches described below.
Multisectoral Approach. As presented above, a whole range of services from private sector support to
education are in need of improvement in rural areas. Therefore, despite the recognized risks of complexity,
a multisectoral approach is required to tackle the problem of unemployment in rural areas. For this reason,
the project has been designed to include three components dealing respectively with micro-credit
(component A), human capital development (component B) and infrastructure (component C). Only a
- 6 -



comprehensive program that tackles simultaneously the different causes of rural unemployment can provide
sustainable solutions. A sectoral approach risks to cure only one of the symptoms without improving
overall conditions. Investments in education, training, health and safety of rural families will improve the
productivity of rural people and increase their opportunities to be employed in off-farm jobs. The focus is
on off-farm employment, therefore the project will concentrate on facilitating the future transfer of
employment outside the agricultural sector.
Geographic Approach. Investments in rural infrastructure and training programs under sub-component
B-3 will be implemented in the whole country, while the other components will be implemented in selected
voivodships: Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Lubelskie, Malopolskie, Podkarpackie, Swietokrzyskie,
Warminsko-Mazurskie and Zachodniopomorskie. They were selected on the basis of four criteria:
unemployment rate, GDP per capita, education level and over-employment in agriculture. This set of
criteria was selected in cooperation with the government and Polish experts, and with the involvement of
the local communities. A short justification for choosing each criterion is given below.
1) Rate of unemployment. This criterion has been used as a proxy for the low diversification of the rural
economy, which correlates directly with lack of development. Although changes in unemployment are
lagged indicators of economic growth, it is generally recognized that areas with good economic
development exhibit low unemployment rates. Studies on Poland show that a low unemployment rate is
positively correlated with the degree of urbanization, with relatively well-developed service sectors and with
the share of the private non-agricultural sector in the local economy.
2) GDP per capita. This is another proxy for the low diversification of the economy. It provides an
objective measure of lack of development and is particularly appropriate in Poland, since evidence suggests
that GDP growth has been largest in areas with a diversified economy. It is therefore justifiable, to address
the project to poor and badly performing rural areas located in those voivodships where the GDP per capita
is low. The GDP criterion is also consistent with EU criteria.
3) Share of population with more than elementary education. An undereducated population is often a
constraining factor for private sector investment, leaving areas with poorly educated people
underdeveloped. This creates a vicious circle, since limited employment opportunities and low incomes
constrain education prospects, even for bright children. Improving educational opportunities is therefore
justified and, conversely, the education level is an appropriate criterion to judge the relative backwardness
of an area and, more important, its likely potential.
4) Employment in agriculture. In the context of Polish agriculture, this criterion can be seen as a proxy for
hidden unemployment and lack of productivity in agriculture. The much vaunted "buffer for the
unemployed" that agriculture provides is a cause of lack of diversification, and lack of economic
development. Regions with a high share of agriculture in production and employment usually have high
unemployment rates and, in addition, accommodate more hidden unemployment than regions whose
economy is not dominated by agriculture. It is therefore justifiable to use the criterion of agricultural
employment in geographic pre-selection of areas where the program will be implemented. Agricultural
(hidden) unemployment is a regional phenomenon. The share of agricultural employment in total
employment varies from 6 to 72 percent among Poland's powiats according to estimates by the main
statistical office (GUS).
Participatory Approach. A participatory approach is essential to the whole idea of regional development.
Self-governments have to be involved in the decision-making for the allocation of funds, otherwise the
support provided without involving the beneficiaries risks to be ineffective in the long run and create
-7-



dependency. Moreover, a participatory approach is now required by the on-going decentralization of
administrative functions and finances in Poland, that requires voivodship self-governments to submit
proposals for regional development to the central government.
Having this in mind, the RDP has been designed with a bottom-up approach. Requests for support from the
project have been submitted by interested gminas, powiats and voivodships. These proposals reflect
priorities incorporated in local development programs, and as such have been approved by local
self-governments. Regional Steering Committees, including representatives from all sectors of society, have
been formed with the purpose of ranking the submitted proposals. In parallel to that, social assessments
have been conducted to better reflect local needs and priorities in the project design.
The risk that the most developed rural areas will prepare proposals for co-financing while undeveloped
ones will be cut off from the support of the project has been considered. For this reason, criteria for the
selection of projects have been developed that will target resources on the unemployed, while limiting the
share of funding to certain activities, such as public works, that otherwise might absorb a disproportionate
share of resources. Moreover, matching funds requirements have been structured in a way that takes into
account the ability of the beneficiaries to contribute, in a further attempt at social equity. The Regional
Steering Committees have already ranked a preliminary set of sub-projects using a set of criteria that also
addressed social equity issues. Attention has also been given to selecting sub-projects where the use of
public funds will not be a substitute to the use of otherwise available private funds, but will be a
complement to it.
EU Partnership. The preparation of EU funded rural development initiatives requires the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) to present a plan for the absorption of SAPARD funds. The
plan has to be prepared in consultation with stakeholders, and must present financial tables for the
allocation of funds for the next seven years. As it is designed, the RDP will provide technical assistance to
people responsible for the preparation of regional development plans in the voivodship self-governments.
Parallel financing by the EU of investments in rural infrastructure and institution building in local
governments is foreseen utilizing the mechanisms of both SAPARD and EU-Phare programs.
As the RDP will be partly financed by the EU, EU criteria for parallel co-financing of sub-projects have
been taken into consideration while designing the project. The RDP will put together an institutional
mechanism which will contribute to the absorption of both EU pre-accession and post-accession structural
funds.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is designed so that individual elements from any component can be implemented at the local
level, singly or in combination with others. For example, a gmina may identify the need for a waste-water
treatment investment, training for several unemployed in business management, and a credit to help an
entrepreneur start a small business. A package of services and investments will be developed to meet these
needs drawing on resources across all project components. Such packages will form part of the broader
investment program submitted by gminas to the regional authorities for co-financing.
The following are the components and sub-components financed under the project:
Component A: Microcredit (US$19.05 million). This component is centered on the development of
-8-



micro-enterprises. Its objective is to reduce hidden and registered unemployment in rural areas, while also
allowing an empirical comparison of the micro-credit approach with the cost of the current regime of social
assistance (welfare). In particular, the component will promote off-farm self-employment in rural gminas of
five voivodships. To achieve its objective, the component will finance (a) small, one time only grants to
cover the minimum social insurance premium that beneficiaries will have to pay if they decide to leave their
status of unemployed. This will allow for a wider participation to the micro-credit program; (b) micro-loans
up to US$5,000 to new and existing rural micro-enterprises; (c) advisory services for newly established
micro-enterprises created under the component; and (d) operational cost and technical assistance on
micro-lending to non-governmental organizations or financial institutions which will be selected to assist in
the implementation of the component as service providers. The service providers will enter into a legal
agreement with the National Economy Bank (BGK). This agreement will cover the terms and conditions for
the operations of the micro-credit programs including risk sharing, and the conditions for technical
assistance and training. See Annex 2, para. 3 to 56 for component details.
Component B: Human Capital Development
Sub-component B- 1: Labor Redeployment (US$44.84 million). The objective of the sub-component is to
assist economically disadvantaged in rural communities to expand and use their human capital in response
to economic and labor market opportunities. The sub-component will finance two main tasks: (i) economic
and labor market surveys; and (ii) labor redeployment services, such as specialized employment services,
on-job and institutional training, support to temporary community employment, small business assistance
services, small business incubators, promotion activities and local economic development planning grants.
The menu of labor redeployment will be made available to economically disadvantaged and unemployed
citizens in rural communities, through local service providers which will be selected on a competitive basis.
See Annex 2, para. 57 to 82 for sub-component details.
Sub-component B-2: Education (US$24.67 million). A key component in the effort to attract new
businesses in rural areas is the implementation of a comprehensive program for the development of a strong
education and training system, capable of providing graduates with the level of knowledge, skills and
capacity to learn required by a modern market economy. The overall objective of the education
sub-component is to improve the efficiency of the education system and the quality of graduates in target
gminas by enhancing the quality of teaching in rural primary schools and gymnasia, and improving the
utilization of educational resources. The education sub-component will finance five major activities: (i) a
program for improving the quality of teaching in primary schools and gymnasia in target areas through
training; (ii) a program for improving the quality of school equipment through the provision of instructional
material; (iii) a program for supporting the introduction of computers for instructional purposes in rural
gminas; (iv) a program for improving school facilities, and education efficiency, through activities leading
to the consolidation of the school network; and (v) support to project dissemination, implementation and
monitoring. The project will be implemented in a sub-set of gminas covered by the project based on an
assessment of the current situation of their education system. Gminas will select from the above menu a
combination of investments which addresses the main problems and challenges identified during the
assessment. See Annex 2, para. 83 to 107 for sub-component details.
Sub-component B-3: Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations (US$12.62 million). The
overall objective of this sub-component is to increase the level of efficiency and effectiveness in eligible
units of local and regional administration (gminas, powiats and voivodships) within the voivodships
covered by RDP, through institutional development, training programs, and capacity building measures,
thus improving the conditions for the creation of non-farm employment in rural areas. An efficient public
administration will improve the provision of goods and services to the public and the private sectors, thus
-9-



facilitating economic activities. The project will finance: (i) institutional development programs (IDP) in
selected pilot units to develop a framework for improving the general efficiency of regional and local
administrations, including management of human and financial resources; (ii) training programs to improve
the quality of services delivered by local officials and public servants, and build capacity for implementing
EU rules and regulations; and (iii) and a capacity building program aimed at supporting the Ministry of
Interior and Public Administration in linking IDP and training activities, and at developing surveys and
studies. Training will be provided to selected public officials, i.e. elected councilors and board members,
and employees of different levels of self-government administration. The training will place special
emphasis on public management and administrative services important for the successful implementation of
RDP and its project components. See Annex 2, para. 108 to 140 for sub-component details.
Component C: Rural Infrastructure (US$194.89 million). The development and improvement of
infrastructure is regarded as a prerequisite for stimulating private sector development. Areas with
developed infrastructure attract investors, whereas areas with inadequate infrastructure place a burden of
additional costs on potential investors, who may need to build roads, water supply, waste water collection,
access to district heating, telecommunication, etc., in order to start and operate a new business. The
objective of this component is to improve technical infrastructure in rural areas, in order to stimulate
private sector investments, facilitate the creation of non-farm jobs, improve environmental and health
conditions, introduce alternative organizational and institutional structures for the sustainable delivery of
affordable services, introduce market oriented approaches in the development and operation of
infrastructure networks, and finally narrow the gap between rural and urban areas in economic
development. The project will finance water supply systems, sewage collection and treatment facilities,
solid waste management systems and rural roads. The limitation to investments in the water, waste water,
roads and solid waste sectors is based on the low demand expressed by local governments for
telecommunication and energy projects. High priority sub-projects have been already identified by the local
governments in seven voivodships. Proposals for investments in rural telecommunication were only 0.8
percent of the total investment portfolio, and eligible energy projects were only 1.3 percent. The average
size of a rural infrastructure investment financed under the RDP is expected to be US$460,000. The
sub-projects will be further screened and evaluated during implementation according to technical, financial
and institutional requirements. A comprehensive training and technical assistance program has been
developed to provide technical staff, project staff in the voivodship and local government officials, with the
skills necessary to implement the project. See Annex 2, para. 141 to 170 for component details.
Component D: Project Management (US$3.77 million). The project will also finance the costs of a Project
Coordination Unit (equipment, staff and O&M), and a provision is made for the costs incurred by the
project teams in the line ministries and the Voivodship Project Implementation Units.
- 10-



Component A: Micro-credit          Small Scale        19.05        6.3     12.50       10.4
Enterprise
Sub-component B-I: Labor           Labor Markets &    44.84       14.9     22.70       18.9
Redeployment                       Employment
Sub-component B-2: Education       Other Education    24.67        8.2     13.30       11.1
Sub-component B-3: Institution     Other Public       12.62        4.2     10.10        8.4
Building in Local and Regional     Sector
Administrations                    Management
Component C: Infrastructure        Rural             194.89       64.7     57.17       47.6
Development
Component D: Project Management                        3.77        1.3      3.03        2.5
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                  299.84       99.6    118.80       99.0
Front-end fee                    1.20        0.4      1.20        1.0
Total Financing Required                   301.04      100.0    120.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Decentralization. The project will work within and support the recent changes in policy and institutional
responsibilities that are resulting from the fundamental restructuring and decentralization of governmental
responsibilities to regional and local authorities. The project is specifically intended to support the new
policy framework of local responsibilities, and to assist new and existing institutions in the formative stages
of their expanded obligations. It is particularly important to strengthen those institutions that will be
charged with disbursing EU structural funds for rural development, upon accession. The project will assist
local and regional government institutions in developing the capacity to implement programs financed
through the EU structural funds.
Comprehensive Rural Development. The project will support the issues identified in the Medium-Term
Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Areas Development, designed to create greater opportunities for
off-farm employment for those currently un- or under-employed, and in anticipation of the expected shift of
part of the current farm work force to non-farm work. The project will, inter alia, assist in improving living
and working conditions in rural areas. Specifically, the project will contribute to the creation of the
following physical structures, institutions and services identified in the Medium Term Strategy:
- 11 -



Poland's Medium-Term Strategy for Aericulture and   Rural Development Program
Rural Areas Development
a) Support for the creation of new non-agricultural  Rural Development Program (in
employment opportunities                          toto)
b) Development of economic advisory services,     Component B- I - Labor
particularly those related to taxes, organization and  Redeployment (Business Support
technology                                        Centers and Incubators)
c) Comprehensive reform of the schooling system.  Component B - Human Capital
Development
(Education sub-component to
address school modernization and
reform, education quality and
efficiency and teacher training)
d) Support to rural infrastructure as the basic condition    Component C - Infrastructure
for stimulating economic activity (top priority)
Through the education component, the RDP supports the education reform which is the fourth biggest
reform initiated by the government, after the reforms of the administration, health, and pension system. The
first phase of the reform extends compulsory education from eight to nine years, and splits it into a cycle of
six years of primary school and three years of gymnasium. The reform enhances changes in the school
network to improve efficiency of the system, and aims at improving quality of education through changes in
curricula. The education component activities support the first phase of the education reform in the rural
gminas in the targeted areas, which will probably have more difficulties with the introduction of the reform
requirements as compared to other more affluent communities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Activities to be financed under the proposed project will (i) create new places of employment in rural areas,
(ii) improve the operational environment for economic activities in rural areas, (iii) offer broad based
support for the creation of new activities, (iv) generate employment and improve rural living conditions.
The target population is expected to be the 40% of Poland's rural population, whose conditions may
aggravate as labor will have to shift away from agriculture in the coming years.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation arrangements for the RDP are designed to ensure the efficient and transparent
achievement of the project objectives. With some exceptions pointed out in the description of the tasks, the
project will have two main levels of decision making: (i) gminas and regional self-governments will have
the programming and implementation function; (ii) the central government will have a coordination and
support function.
Bottom-up Approach. Gminas have already begun to pick from a menu of options the investment
- 12-



activities that are essential for addressing the objectives as they are reflected in their local development
strategies. The RDP operational manual provides the guidelines and the procedures to help gminas take
rational and financially sound decisions. In addition, the sub-component on Institution Building in Local
and Regional Administrations will provide assistance to gmina, powiat and voivodship self-governments in
rationalizing their decision-making process. The RDP will therefore lead to a better resource utilization at
the local and regional level, increasing the overall economic efficiency.
Economies of Scale. Once a portfolio of sub-projects is identified and approved by the gmina, it is
reviewed by the powiat to ensure the harmonization of sub-regional investments. The RDP will enhance
economies of scale by giving preference to gminas that jointly decide to develop one landfill, instead of
having a landfill built in each one of them; sub-regional schools, instead of a costly system where there is a
primary school in nearly every village; or common water supply and waste water treatment facilities,
instead of scattered expensive investments that will have a limited positive environmental impact.
ARMA. In the case of the infrastructure component, all project proposals applying for co-financing under
the project will be submitted to the relevant local office of ARMA for review. The local office of ARMA
will have three weeks to: (i) check proposals against eligibility criteria for co-financing under the project,
and (ii) perform the financial and economic analysis of proposals. ARMA has no approval power, and after
evaluating the proposals, the local offices of ARMA will send the documentation to the Voivodship Project
Implementation Unit/Regional Steering Committee with copy to the applicant. To ensure the efficient
evaluation of proposals, by the end of March 2000, the local offices of ARMA will need to have the
capacity to assess the economic, financial, environmental and technical quality of projects, and a financial
management system satisfactory to the Bank.
Voivodship Project Implementation Unit Once projects' proposals are sent for review to the Voivodship
Project Implementation Unit (VPIU), they are screened and checked for compliance with regional
development policies and against criteria, procedures and standards as defined in the operational manual
and required by local law. For this task, the project will use the expertise already in place in the Regional
Development Agencies (RDA) or other institutions. The VPIU will consist of at least a project director, an
assistant to the director who will work as secretary of the Regional Steering Committee, a chief accountant,
a financial management specialist, an MIS specialist, three procurement specialists and rural infrastructure
specialists, and a part-time legal advisor. The professional staff will be supported by support staff.
Regional Steering Committee. A Regional Steering Committee (RSC), consisting of representatives of the
voivodship, powiat and gmina self-governments, the voivoda office, the chamber of commerce and/or
industry and trade, the chamber of agriculture, the curator and NGOs, will rank eligible sub-projects which
are submitted by local governments and reviewed by the VPIU concerning technical, financial, economic,
environmental and institutional requirements. The RSCs have begun to prioritize sub-projects following a
set of agreed criteria. For the infrastructure component - as an example - the criteria include: i) importance
for the broader regional economic development plan; (ii) potential for direct and indirect job creation; (iii)
proposal jointly presented by a group of gminas which reflects the principle of economy of scale in project
design; (iv) contribution of local government to investment cost. Similar criteria were developed for other
sub-components. The package of investment projects as ranked by the Regional Steering Committee will
form the basis for the contract that the Marszaleks will negotiate with the central government for the
allocation of funds among voivodships. Based on the funds available for each voivodship, the RSC will
approve the individual sub-projects in the order of the ranking list. Detailed rules and procedures can be
found in the Operational Manual.
- 13-



Central Government. In Poland, MARD has the overall responsibility for rural development, however the
following ministries and agencies, responsible for specific aspects of rural development, will be involved in
providing assistance to self-governments in implementing the project. MARD will coordinate all the issues
related to the implementation of the RDP and component C. The other ministries involved in the project are
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Economy (MOE), the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
(MOLSP), responsible for the implementation of components A and B-1, the Ministry of National
Education (MONE), responsible for the implementation of component B-2, and the Ministry of Interior and
Public Administration (MIAPA), responsible for the implementation of component B-3.
National Steering Committee. A National Steering Committee, composed of the representatives of the
ministries mentioned above and two representatives of the Board of Marszaleks appointed by the Joint
Commission of Government and Self-governments, will allocate project funds among voivodships, oversee
project implementation, review annual audits, resolve any problems arising in the coordination of the
different activities, and approve changes to the operational manual. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural
Development, as Chairman of the National Steering Committee, will invite the representatives of the
Ministry of Environment and of the Committee for European Integration, the Chairmen of the Rural
Association of Gminas and Association of Powiats to participate in the work of the committee. Other
Marszaleks will participate in the working sessions of the NSC. The National Steering Committee will meet
at least every three months. By making the Marszaleks members of the National Steering Committee, the
RDP strengthens the cooperation between local and central governments, and creates a forum for
discussing the process of allocating limited funds among the different regions of the country. The RDP
establishes procedures and criteria that will enable consensus building between local, regional and central
layers of the government, therefore supporting the decentralization process. In addition, the procedures for
identifying priorities and allocating funds will allow the better usage of local and EU pre and
post-accession funds.
Funding Agreements. The contract between each Marszalek and the Minister of Agriculture and Rural
Development, as chairman of the National Steering Committee will constitute the basis for the allocation of
funds by voivodship. The allocation of funds will be made in consideration of economic and social equity
issues, and will be made for investments under the active labor programs, the education and infrastructure
components. In the case of the microcredit activities, pilot voivodships have been pre-identified, and this
will be reflected in the allocation of funds. The institution building activities will be managed at central
level by MIAPA, and the allocation of funds will take this into account.
Financing of Sub-projects. Sub-projects to be supported under this operation will be financed from
different sources: gmina and powiat budgets, EU funds, Bank funds, environmental protection funds,
EcoFund, commercial banks and private sector. With respect to commitment of EU-Phare funds, a lead
ministry is designated by the government as responsible for each program, its management and resource
allocation. It is expected that the respective ministry will annually arrange for a decision on the amount
allocated for rural development to be executed at the regional level, and delegate the detailed allocation by
individual sub-projects to the National Steering Committee. With respect to national funds, e.g. the
National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Labor Fund, it will be the
responsibility of the gmina to obtain such funding approvals for the sub-projects proposed to the Regional
Steering Committee.
Flow of Funds. The World Bank will make an initial authorized allocation into the Special Account
registered with the Ministry of Finance in the National Bank of Poland, and thereafter transfers will be
made upon requests received from the MOF. Funds will flow from the Special Account to the Financial
Departments of the Voivoda Offices (with expenditures justified to the Bank within a thirty days period) in
- 14 -



the case of infrastructure component. Should the Public Finance Law be amended, then the funds will flow
according to that amendment. Based on the approval of sub-project packages by the National Steering
Committee and the funding agreements signed by each Marszalek (see para. 48), the Ministry of Finance
will transfer funds according to government budget procedures and terms agreed for each component as
presented in Annex 2. The advance for each sub-project package will cover no more than 20% of the
overall approved amount. The VPIU will then prepare co-financing agreements to be signed between the
Marszaleks and the gminas. Once these agreements are signed, the gminas will start the implementation
process with the assistance of the VPIU. In the case of the institution building activities and the
establishment of a resource center under the Education component, the responsible ministries will directly
pay the service providers. In the case of component A, Microcredit, payments will be channeled via the
BGK through selected service providers.
The Ministry of Finance will transfer a portion of the overall approved amount as an advance (no more
than 20%), and subsequently on the basis of replenishment requests from the VPIUs. Once 50% of the
advance has been used, the VPIUs will submit a replenishment request to the PCU that will forward the
necessary documentation to the MOF, that will then submit replenishment requests of the Special Account
to the Bank. Provisions will be made for funds to be returned in the event of cost-savings or ineligibility of
expenditures.
By keeping the programming and implementing function separate from the paying function, the process for
decision-making under the RDP is subject to public control and allows for a transparent allocation of
funds. It therefore allows for better governance and introduces a clear division of responsibilities between
local, regional and national governments.
Project Coordination Unit. The National Steering Committee will be supported by a Project Coordination
Unit located within the Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture (FAPA), an independent
agency reporting to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development that has demonstrated its capacity
in implementing similar projects. The Project Coordination Unit will have the responsibility for the overall
coordination of the project, and fulfill the role of secretariat of the National Steering Committee. The
Project Coordination Unit will receive periodic progress reports from VPIUs and project teams in the
responsible ministries, and will prepare consolidated reports for the Government, the Bank, and other
co-financing organizations as appropriate. The Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for the project
launch workshop, and for providing assistance to all levels of project management. It will consist of
eighteen staff members headed by a project director, and will include a procurement specialist, a financial
management specialist and a MIS specialist (see annex I of the operational manual).
Implementation Agreement. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, as Chairman of the
National Steering Committee, will sign the Implementation Agreement with the Minister responsible for
each sub-component (see para. 46). The Implementation Agreement will define the responsibilities of each
ministry and the reporting procedures.
Monitoring Function. Each ministry participating in the project will have a monitoring function for its line
of responsibility. To carry out that function, each ministry will designate a department, or an external
service provider, to carry out these functions. These project teams will cooperate at the central level with
the Project Coordination Unit, and provide information on the implementation in line with the project
indicators.
Project progress reports will be submitted by all lower level implementing units to the Voivodship Project
Implementing Units or, in the case of institution building activities, service providers reports will be
- 15-



submitted through project teams in appropriate ministries to the PCU. The Project Coordination Unit will
prepare periodic consolidated financial management reports for the National Steering Committee, the
Ministry of Finance, and the Bank. These reports will be part of a project Management Information
System, providing reports on the achievement of objectives compared to funds spent. A periodic RDP
evaluation process (initially every six months), at both the regional and central levels, is built into the
project implementation schedule for continuous process improvements.
-16-



Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
World Bank                    MOF/NBP
Special               Budget
Account
Nationally                         ______
National    1                 Project     ]           GOP
F                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ministries
Steering     -             Co-ordination     -      (MOLSP,
Committee                    Unit (PCU)               MONE,
(NSC)                       j         ~~~~~~~~~MARD,
(NSC)                                               MIAPA;
Regionally    j
Regional                    Voivodship                    Voivodship
Steering     -                Project        -              Finance
Committees                  Implementation                 Departments
(RSC)                     Units (VPIU)
~~ r     ~~~Gminas              | 
Powiats
Flow of funds
Decisions/consultation
The detailed implementation arrangements, sub-projects selection, flow of funds and co-financing
arrangements for each component and sub-component are in annex 2.
- 17-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project could have been designed as a simple continuation of the past program of support for the
creation of rural infrastructure (Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan, ASAL300, 1994-1997). This option
was rejected because of the need to develop an integrated approach that would extend the scope of the
project to support rural entrepreneurship and changes in the education of the rural labor force.
Full reliance upon commercial financing has been rejected because of the so far limited availability of
appropriate instruments such as municipal bonds and the concurrent limitations for financing public works,
particularly in rural areas. Moreover, a hands-off approach by central government would not have allowed
for targeting the most distressed rural areas, for instance east of the Vistula river, and would have made it
difficult, if not impossible, to leverage the structural support from the EU effectively.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LaetSpervliow
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural Environmental Protection    PL-PE-50660, PL-GE-59613          na            na
Employment Promotion and Services   PL-PE-8582                      S             S
Northern Poland Regional Development PL-SE-53746                    na            na
Study
Wholesale Markets Project I (Gdansk) PL-PE-8616                    HS             S
Wholesale Markets Project II (Lublin)  PL-PE-55988                  S             S
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan   PL-PE-8583                     S             S
Flood Emergency Project           PL-PE-53796                       S             S
Other development agencies
EU/Phare                          Principally through a rural
development program
implemented by the Polish
Agency for Regional
Development and with a yearly
budget equivalent of about
US$25 million
EU/post-accession Structural      Annual levels to be determined
Adjustment Funds
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 18-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan. While designing the RDP, an analysis of the effects of the ASAL
(Agricultural Structure Adjustment Loan) was undertaken. One of the principal objectives of the
Government of Poland in utilizing the proceeds of the ASAL was to stimulate rural areas through the
development of infrastructure (water supply, sewage collection and telecommunication projects) for which
USS250 million were allocated. The planning, implementation and fund disbursement functions were
entrusted to ARMA (Agency for the Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture), which distributed
grants for approximately US$222 million. These funds were distributed to gminas in the form of subsidies,
complementing other, for example NGOs grants, preferential credits, commercial financing, which was
usually for 60% or more of total investment in the sub-project concerned. The lessons learned from the
ASAL are the following: (i) construction of infrastructure stimulates the economy of rural areas. ASAL
investments contributed to the generation of jobs directly through the construction and operation of the
infrastructure projects, and indirectly through the development of the local economy; (ii) stimulation of
rural areas through infrastructure projects should be based on strategic plans of regional economic
development. It is necessary to supplement the extension of infrastructure with other elements like
education, stimulation of small businesses (supplying them with information, legal assistance, joint
promotion, business incubators), adaptation of local regulations (land use planning), and involvement of
private business in the development of the area (privatization, joint public and private projects); (iii)
infrastructure projects should be located in areas with relatively high concentration of population.
Bank-financed Rural Development Projects. In addition, the Bank's experience with rural development
projects has generated important lessons that were considered while preparing the project. These include: (i)
the support program should be well known to the beneficiaries; (ii) the implementing agency should be
viewed as a tool of the program and not the 'donor'; (iii) clear rules for qualifying investment projects for
financial support should be in place; (iv) information availability, clarity of criteria should be supplemented
by necessary technical assistance; (v) thorough evaluation of the effects of program implementation is
essential; (vi) the project design should emphasize that a decentralized multi-component program is more
effective than separate projects for infrastructure investment, training, education, and private sector
development.
Similar Activities in Poland. Most of, if not all, the activities proposed for the RDP are not new to
Poland. On the contrary, they have been tried and tested in the Polish developing market economy since the
early nineties. Some of them have been part of previous Bank supported projects, others have been
successfully undertaken by other institutions and by the Polish government. For instance, the support
activities proposed for SMEs are essentially the extension to rural areas of what has been pioneered very
successfully by Polish institutions, initially with support from the EU and from several bilateral
organizations, notably the UK Know How Fund. In the same vein, the entire Labor Redeployment
component is based on the recently concluded, urban based, Bank supported Active Labor Program that
was implemented by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, the same entity that will be looked at for
overall coordination, under the RDP, of what is essentially the extension of that program to rural areas.
This same ministry has extensive experience in operating unemployment related programs from the Polish
government, including in rural areas and including microcredit schemes. What is arguably the largest
precursor of what is proposed here was the 250 million dollar equivalent program of rural infrastructure
development financed in conjunction with the Bank's ASAL in the early '90s. Under that program, about
4,200 gmina level infrastructure projects were built. Finally, the demand driven approach of the RDP is
responsive to the spontaneous initiatives observed in several rural locations in Poland, where, for instance,
the local population has formed cooperatives to create their own telephone network, or where several
- 19-



communities have combined to build sewage treatment plants and, lately, solid waste disposal sites. These
experiences have largely guided the design of the RDP with respect to the targeting of beneficiaries,
potentially effective implementation modalities, and identification and selection of investments.
Bilateral Donor Coordination. The British Know How Fund (KHF), with its Public Investment Program
(PIP), and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), with its Local Government
Partnership Program (LGPP), have demonstrated a strong involvement in Poland for strengthening the
capacity of local governments. The Bank has established a close cooperation with both organizations. As a
result, the KHF has supported the RDP with the development of models for the economic and financial
analysis of rural infrastructure investments. In addition, USAID, KHF and LGPP participated in designing
the B-3 component. Furthermore, the USAID, KHF and the Bank team have developed the training and TA
elements for the rural infrastructure component in close coordination and cooperation with the ongoing PIP
and LGPP programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has emphasized the need to prepare and implement the program on an expedited schedule
in order to maximize its coordination with EU programs, and has worked actively to prepare the project.
The National Steering Committee, project teams at the ministerial level and Regional Steering Committees
have been created. Sub-projects under the infrastructure and education components have already been
identified by the beneficiaries, and Marszaleks have financed local consultants to help identify them.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support will allow for the coordination of otherwise disparate efforts, incorporating other
international assistance for the creation of rural infrastructure, the promotion of enterprises in rural areas
and the generation of employment. Bank participation in the project will assist the government in designing
a framework for efficient use of EU pre-accession and post-accession funds for rural development. Bank
funding will supply the missing long term financing, without which many projects for the creation of public
goods cannot be realized. Bank initiative might allow for the development of a new system that could serve
as the financing vehicle for all future Polish regional and rural development programs, both internationally
and domestically funded. In doing this, it will provide a mechanism by which Polish democracy will make
its influence felt on development at all government levels, in many relevant sectors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=[]S$ million; ERR =- % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the multisectoral nature of the project, a range of benefits is expected, many of which are not
quantifiable or additive. The project thus does not lend itself as a whole to a detailed ex-ante cost-benefit
analysis and a rate of return calculation. The project encourages decentralized decision-making based
largely on the priorities of local communities. Such demand-driven investments are expected to provide
greater ownership and utility to the community. Active involvement and participation of the community is
expected to improve the cost-effectiveness of the investment options. To help the communities, the project
- 20 -



documents provide a framework of selection parameters for the menu of components based on the lessons
of previous operations (ASAL) or extensive studies. Based on the ASAL experience, the investment of the
RDP could lead to incremental generation of about 44,000 permanent jobs at a cost of around US$5,000
(PLN 20,000) per job, remarkably low by world standards.
Micro-credit: The essence of the economic and financial analysis of this component is a comparison
between (a) the average cost of providing social assistance to one unemployed person under the current
policy regime, taking into account the expected duration of an unemployment spell, and (b) the estimated
average cost of the alternative intervention implicit in the design of the sub-component; namely a "package"
of grants, technical assistance, and micro-loans to create new and promote existing micro-enterprises in
rural areas. Annex 4 summarizes data that suggest that, under rather conservative assumptions, the
package of investments and activities financed under the sub-component may be a lower cost alternative to
the instruments currently used by the government to deal with long term rural unemployment. The main
findings presented in annex 4 are (a) a survival rate of micro-enterprises created under the component of
above 59 percent after two years will make the proposed package more cost effective than the current
regime, and (b) the main difficulty faced by a micro-credit outlet in achieving sustainability is the low
incidence of entrepreneurship in the country's rural areas - which implies that achieving sustainability in
rural Poland may require more time than in other environments (see Annex 4 for assumptions and risk
analysis).
Labor Redeployment: The basic economic rationale is that moving workers, via labor redeployment
programs, from jobs where they are not productive and receive public subsidies to jobs where they are
productive and do not receive public subsidies reduces public budget outlays and increases GDP. At the
same time, GDP will increase to the extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are new jobs or higher
productivity jobs than participants held previously. The sub-component finances specific services to: (a)
improve labor mobility and address unemployment; (b) enhance and change human capital, via retraining,
to address structural unemployment and improve productivity; and (c) address the lack of demandfor
labor including support to individuals to help them start and maintain micro and small businesses, and to
communities to implement temporary community employment schemes and design local economic
development plans. Since ex-ante cost benefit analysis is not possible the sub-component will be monitored
for cost-effectiveness. The project provides for monitoring of the status of program participants relative to
their post-program employment status, earnings, and receipt of continued public income support payments.
It is anticipated that the gross impact of the services will equal or exceed those found in the study "
Evaluating the Impact of Active Labor Programs: Results of Cross Country Studies in Europe and Central
Asia" (World Bank Discussion Paper, June, 1999), and that post program employment will be a minimum
of 15% after receipt of employment services, 50% for participants in retraining, 10% of employment in
temporary community employment programs, 5% of those who make initial contact for assistance in
starting small businesses will actually start businesses, and 90% of those entering business incubators will
continue to operate a small business at the end of one year.
Education: Rehabilitation of school infrastructure and development of a school transportation system in
rural gminas will promote the consolidation of the current school network leading, on the one hand, to
increased efficiency in the utilization of resources by increasing student-teacher and student-classroom
ratios. On the other hand, it will bring savings into the system by evolving a school network that is more
energy efficient and is better utilized. Improvement in the quality of education will reduce repetition and
dropout ratios. As a consequence of this more students will graduate and it will take less time and resources
to produce a graduate, thus reducing the average cost of producing a graduate. On the other hand, quality
improvement will produce graduates with better and more relevant knowledge and skills, which in turn will
increase their potential to be employed, productive and trainable. Selection of education sub-projects will
- 21 -



be based on measures of cost-effectiveness. Table I below shows the cost-effectiveness of the main
sub-components of the RDP investments under education. It is based on pilot programs undertaken by the
Ministry of Education in 1998 and 1999.
Table 1. Cost-effectiveness of Education Sub-component
Sub-components        Units of         Cost-effectiveness   Cost-effectiveness from
measurement                           similar operations
A. Program for        Cost per training   $343              1,200 PLN = $343
Improving the Quality   participant
of Teaching Through
Teacher Training
B. Program for        Cost per school    $3,900             None available
Improving School
Equipment
C. Program for        Cost per gmina    $1,305 (software)   38,167 PLN = $10,905
Supporting the                         $454,545 (national    (hardware & software)
Introduction of                        resource center)     4,500 PLN = $1,286 (IT
Computers                              $800 (IT training for  teacher training for 3
2 participants, i.e.  participants i.e. $429 per
$400 per participant)  participant)
5,500 PLN = $1,572
(auxiliary equipment and
installation)
D. Program for       Cost per gmina    $52,000 (school      None available
Improving School                       rehabilitation)
Facilities & Education                 $51,750 (transport)   200,000 PLN = $57,143
Efficiency (transport)                                      (transport)
E. Project                             $270,000 total
Implementation
The project provides for monitoring of the status of teachers relative to their post-program employment
status, performance standards and receipt of continued public income support payments, if they are
currently unemployed. It is anticipated that the gross impact of the services will equal or exceed those
found in the pilot programs of the Ministry of Education, and will result in greater cost savings than
without project practice. Independent evaluators are evaluating the pilot project. Based on the latest
information, the teachers trained by the program have expressed their satisfaction with the contents and
method of training. The pilot training program has raised the level of teachers' qualifications thus training
them to teach new school courses and remain in the profession by qualifying them for the future
accreditation system to be implemented.
Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations: The proposed sub-component will provide a
number of benefits. The project will assist in output recovery and sustained economic growth through
policy actions that promote among other things private investments. It will increase the levels of efficiency
- 22 -



and effectiveness of public services by decentralizing decision making, implementation, and monitoring of
programs and investments. Data were lacking for empirical cost-benefit analysis. Instead, a cost-recovery
calculation analysis was prepared, in which the efficiency gains have been expressed as percentages of the
1999 annual budgets of voivodship (annual budget USD 40 million in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie
voivodship), powiat (annual budget USD 7 million in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship) and gmina
(annual budget USD 1.5 million, countrywide average). It was assumed efficiency gains would amount to
2% of the budget including the participants in the general training program. Full development was expected
in year seven. Over a period of analysis of 15 years, the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) amounts to about
39%, and the Net Present Value (NPV) at 12% discount rate is about USD 19 million. A sensitivity
analysis was performed for the number of participating units, which showed that with one participating
voivodship, two participating powiats and seven participating gminas, and reaching out with general
training to 100 units only, the lRR would be about 13% and the NPV USD 0.5 million.
Infrastructure: Quality Review for investment proposals will be carried out by the local offices of ARMA
against technical, economic, financial and institutional requirements. Clear rules for qualifying investment
projects include a financial and economic justification based on models prepared by Agrisystems Inc. and
financed by the British Know How Fund. Investments should only be approved if they generate a nominal
EIRR higher than 10 percent (see Table 2 below). These models for the financial and economic analysis of
small infrastructure investments are incorporated in the operational manual. In addition, consultants will
provide hands-on training for the VPIUs, local offices of ARMA and gminas during implementation. As an
example, the model for rural roads is attached in Annex 4, Appendix 2-1. Models for other infrastructure
investments are included in the operational manual.
Table 2. Selected thresholds for the Selection of Rural Infrastructure Sub-projects
Thresholds
Local government contribution                                  30% and 50%
Nominal EIRR                                                   10%
Cost Recovery of O&M costs for revenue generating services     Full
The RSC has ranked the projects following a set of criteria: (i) importance for the broader regional
economic development plan; (ii) potential for direct and indirect job creation; (iii) joint proposals among
gminas which reflects the principle of economy of scale in project design; (iv) contributions of local
government to investment cost; and (v) economic rate of return.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
In several components, financial criteria and analyses will serve as the basis, and in a few even as a proxy,
for economic analysis (see above).
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal Impact: Fiscal costs of unemployment were analyzed to determine the range of benefits arising from
employment generation. The analysis was performed per person moving from unemployed to employed,
- 23 -



using the 1997 data of the Central Statistical Office.
Budget cost of unemployment, as in Table 3 consists of three major elements: (i) unemployment benefit, (ii)
contribution to health insurance schemes, and (iii) administrative costs of managing the unemployment
scheme. Annual cost of unemployment benefit per one unemployed reached about PLN 2,705.
Table 3. Derivation of Annual fiscal cost per unemployed person (based on 1997 data)
Costs                                          in '000 PLN
Unemployment benefits (total Poland)            3,300,838
Insurance of unemployed (total Poland, govt.    1,463,176
contribution)
Administrative costs (total Poland)             176,808
Total budget expenditure (total Poland)         4,940,822
Number of unemployed                            1,826,000
Annual fiscal cost per unemployed in PLN        2,705.22
This analysis indicates that annual fiscal savings from converting one unemployed to employed will be
about PLN 2,700 (US$825). Employment of one previously unemployed person will also generate
additional fiscal benefits to the budget in the form of income tax and higher revenue from the Value Added
Tax. Estimation of these benefits was performed under two assumptions (i) minimum salary; and (ii)
average salary (see Table 4).
Table 4. Annual fiscal benefit of creating job for unemployed person (minimum & average annual
salary in PLN)
Minimum salary      Average salary
5,121.00            12,789.12
Tax free income                     624.48              624.48
Taxable income                      4,496.52            12,164.64
Income tax                          854.34              2,311.28
Income increase (salary minus taxes)   2,459.37         8,670.55
Propensity to spend                 0.99                0.94
Expenditure increase                2,434.78            8,112.91
- 24 -



Food expenditure                     1,053.19             2,675.88
VAT on food                          73.72                187.31
Non-food expenditure                 1,381.59             5,437.03
VAT on non-food                      138.16               815.55
VAT benefit                          211.88               1,002.87
Fiscal Benefit                       1,066.22             3,314.15
Summing up the income taxes and higher VAT revenues gives a range between PLN 1,050 and 3,300 per
year from creation of one job for an unemployed person. Finally, total fiscal benefits were calculated by
adding budget costs foregone and new revenues. The range is between PLN 3,800 and 6,000 per year.
The above estimates are in 1997 PLN, as were the estimates of the impact of ASAL (see
E. Summary Project Analysis 1. Economic, page 22). On that basis and assuming all
project costs are borne by the government, such costs should be recouped fiscally in about
four years.
3. Technical:
Poland has well developed technical standards in all of the infrastructure sub-components, that are now
being updated to comply with the latest EU requirements. Although technical standards exist and are
enforced, their application in specific situations may not take into account engineering economy
considerations and may result in over designed facilities and waste of resources.
Parallel to the use of these standards, better procedures which would yield least cost solutions would
improve the efficiency of service delivery. They would also help achieve compliance with broad
environmental standards, since low cost provision of sewer and solid waste services encourages increased
subscription. There is already evidence in Poland of consumers revolting against high cost services (usually
based on over designed facilities) by withdrawing their subscription. The project appropriately addresses
this issue by providing detailed guidelines and recommendations through the operational manual, and
assisting the VPIU and local governments with extensive training and technical assistance. The emphasis in
sub-project selection on economies of scale in infrastructure (see Economies of Scale, page 13) and
consolidation in rural schooling (see Institutional Buildings in Local and Regional Administration, page 24)
should also raise economic efficiency in those fields.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Gminas. The gmina is the basic level of self-government. Since 1990, there are almost 2,500 gminas in
Poland, headed by a Wojt, Chairman of the Board, in the case of rural gminas, and by a Mayor (Chairman
of the Board), in the case of urban gminas. As a result of the decentralization process, gminas have been
strengthened, and they have been provided with the tools and the means to independently structure their
social and economic development, while putting in place safeguards to prevent over spending and
increasing debt exposure. A large city is headed by a president. The Gmina performs all public tasks of
- 25 -



local significance that have not been reserved by law for other entities.
The decision to recommend and design a bottom-up approach with very strong involvement of local
self-governments is based on an institutional assessment carried out as part of the project's preparation
process, that also covers the environment management system of the country. This assessment is also
supplemented by experience gained under an on-going project, the Poland Flood Emergency project. Based
on the findings of the institutional assessment report, the Bank concluded that in the majority of cases the
institutional capacity of the gminas is sufficient to identify and implement the infrastructure and the
education components. The activities financed under these components are being fulfilled on a daily basis
by gminas.
A review of the public procurement procedures also reveals that the proper legal and institutional elements
are in place, that allow gminas to invite tenders and carry out sub-projects' implementation.
Powiat. Powiat is a local self-governing community. This new administrative unit was restored with the
reform of public administration in January 1999. There are 308 powiats and 65 cities with the status of
powiat. The powiat is headed by the Starosta (Chairman of the Board). A city with the status of poviat is
headed by a president. A powiat covers a whole area of adjacent gminas, but the powiat does not supervise
the activities of gminas. A powiat performs public tasks whose scope goes beyond the gmina boundaries.
The involvement of powiats in the programming phase is limited to facilitating a consultation process that
allows for economies of scale.
Voivodship Self-government. The voivodship self-government is a regional self-governing community and
the largest unit of the territorial division of the state. Since January 1999, the number of voivodships has
decreased from forty-nine to sixteen. The voivodship self-government consists of the voivodship Sejmik, the
decision-making and controlling body, and the voivodship Board, the executive body. The voivodship
Marszalek is the chairman of the voivodship board. The Marszalek's office manages the daily affairs of the
voivodship, represents it and provides assistance to the voivodship Board. The voivodship self-government
is responsible for programming and stimulating regional development.
Voivodship Project Implementation Unit. The assessment of the institutional strengths and weaknesses of
these new established local self-government administration pointed out the need for identifying existing
institutions that have experience in managing development projects in cooperation with the central
government and the EU, and the proper staffing and professional skills required to provide that kind of
service to the Marszaleks. Such institutions have been identified in the Regional Development Agencies. An
institutional assessment was carried out, and an agreement was reached with the Marszaleks that these
agencies will provide services under contractual arrangements to act as VPIUs. RDAs are
semi-independent government foundations, which exist at the regional level in Poland, and whose purpose is
to help the jurisdiction to which they are attached to stimulate and improve local economic development. As
such, they are a natural choice as the managing body of national and international programs at the
voivodship level, and in the case of this project as the Voivodship Project Implementation Units (VPIUs).
Moreover, upon accession, RDAs will likely play an important role in building capacity for absorption of
the EU Structural Funds. Their main responsibility will be to support regional public administrations in
implementing the programs financed by the Structural Funds. In particular, the RDAs' activities will
concentrate on preparing regional strategic plans at the request of the voivodship government, identifying
specific investments, organizing a financial montage for the sub-projects, promoting EU programs,
conducting training programs on the EU structural policy for local and regional self-governments, as well
as for other social partners. Therefore, the objective of the RDP to co-operate and co-finance sub-projects
with the EU also argues for RDAs as the best candidates to work as voivodship implementation units for
- 26 -



the project.
Voivodship and Powiat Labor Offices. The Labor Redeployment component relies on the institutional
capacity that has been developed by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, principally through the
activities financed by its Labor Fund. The key institutions under this component is the Voivodship and
Powiat Labor Offices which signal labor services contracts.
As far as the microcredit component is concerned, there is a positive institutional experience of Polish
NGOs managing micro-credit funds. The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy also has positive experience.
Therefore, there was enough confidence to recommend designing this component in such a way that it will
utilize the NGOs' capacity, on a competitive basis.
Regional Steering Committee. The Regional Steering Committee is a new institutional set-up, therefore
there is some uncertainty as to how it will perform. However, the confidence needed to recommend such a
design is based on the analysis and the assessment of a multi-year regional program covering several
voivodships supported by the EU-Phare program, the Malopolska regional development program. The
positive results of that program (in one of the newly enlarged voivodships included in the RDP) and its
institutional and implementation arrangements have been used as a model to design the programming and
implementation arrangements for the RDP at the voivodship and gmina levels. Through the latter
preparation process for this project, the RSCs have already begun to operate with positive effectiveness.
4.2 Project management:
At the central level, the ministries involved in over-seeing the components have enough in-house capacity,
acquired either from former Bank projects, EU or bilateral programs, to efficiently fulfill their project
management role and function. This is true for the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy and the Ministry of National Education. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has
previous experience in managing the ASAL project.
Project Coordination Unit. An important role in project management and implementation is foreseen for
the Project Coordination Unit. Previous Bank's experience with Project Coordination Units embodied
within the government structure has pointed out the need to locate the Project Coordination Unit outside
such structure, but reporting to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The professional skills
required from the employees of the Project Coordination Unit are different from those of government civil
servants.
An important element to maintain a multi-sector focus during project implementation is the co-operation
among ministries that will play a role in influencing the rural development program in Poland. Experience
with such an inter-ministerial body is mixed. One of the key factors to maintain interest and willingness to
co-operate is foreseen in the benefits that a given ministry will get from co-operating.
National Steering Committee. It is also imperative for the National Steering Committee to function
efficiently, and that the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development will fulfill his role as Chairman,
personally or through an appointed deputy, with full determination. The formal prerequisite for this already
exists, since the government has formally established an inter-ministerial committee for the RDP, and
MARD has been designated as the lead agency for rural development.
As far as funds management and disbursement are concerned, there is positive evidence obtained under the
- 27 -



Poland Flood Emergency project that has led the team to recommend the same model for the RDP.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDS Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Dbcuments, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Goods and technical
assistance to be financed by the co-financiers will be procured in accordance with the public procurement
regulations or the regulations and practices of each co-financier. A general procurement notice will be
published in the Development Business of the UN in April 2000. For more details see Annex 6
4.4 Financial management issues:
General. The PCU, to be established within FAPA, will oversee the implementation of the project,
including its financial management arrangements. The key financial management position in the project will
be that of the prospective PCU's Financial Manager. The PCU will work closely together with the project
teams created in the responsible line ministries to oversee the project's individual components and
sub-components. By working closely with all these agencies, the PCU will ensure the appropriateness of the
project's financial management arrangements as a whole as well as those of the implementing agencies. It is
a condition of project effectiveness that the financial management arrangements of the project are
satisfactory to the Bank. It should be noted, however, that by design, some of the implementing agencies
will only be selected after project effectiveness; in these circumstances, the PCU will ensure that both the
Terms of Reference for these implementing agencies as well as their actual financial management
arrangements are consistent with the existing financial management arrangements of the project and are
satisfactory to the Bank.
Financial Management Assessment. As a condition of loan effectiveness, a financial management system
acceptable to the Bank will be put in place. The following pre-requisites will have to be satisfied:
-  one accountant, whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank, will need to be
employed at each participating VPIU;
*  three accountants, whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank, will need to be
employed at the PCU;
*  a letter will need to be sent to the Marszaleks of the participating voivodships explaining the
requirements of the financial management system that will need to be established at their VPIUs,
including the formats of the PMRs that will need to be produced by their VPIUs' financial management
systems;
*  at least five participating VPIUs, the responsible ministry project teams and PCU will need to have an
installed and operational internet email connection;
*  the production of a paper describing the operation of the financial management system as installed at
each of the participating VPIUs, responsible ministry project teams and PCU;
*  the evaluation and certification of the acceptability of the financial management arrangements of the
project by a Bank Financial Management Specialist in accordance with the Bank's Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI);
*  the financial management system of the project must be capable of producing PMRs showing the
project's Sources and Uses of Funds, Uses of Funds by Activity, and Special Account Statement.
- 28 -



Under the infrastructure component, the requirements concerning the VP1Us will also appropriately apply
to the regional offices of ARMA. A detailed time-bound action plan to strengthen the financial management
system, and enable the preparation of Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank not later than
December 31, 2000, will be presented prior to effectiveness.
Financial Management Systems. The project's management systems will be computer-based, networked
and distributed across the various project teams and implementing agencies to allow for the timely and
efficient collection, processing and transfer of information, including the request for and approval of
transfers of project funds. Loan conditions assure that the financial management system is acceptable to the
Bank. The design and operation of the project's financial management systems is documented in Annex 2
of the operational manual.
Project Management Reporting. The formats of the Project Management Reports (PMRs), consistent
with the formats advocated in the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Implementation
Handbook and related guidance is presented in the operational manual, and will be a key consideration in
the design of the project's financial management systems that will be developed prior to project
effectiveness. The PCU will have overall responsibility for the co-ordination of the production of the PMRs
by the various implementing agencies. The PMRs will be prepared as at the end of every calendar quarter
and submitted within 45 days thereof with the first set of PMRs being due for the period ending December
31, 2000. Draft formats for the PMRs are included as an attachment to Annex 2.4 of the operational
manual.
Disbursement. The project will initially disburse under the Bank's traditional method of disbursement,
with the option of moving to the Project Management Reports (PMR)-based disbursement method at the
mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Bank.
Audit Arrangements. Audits, conducted in accordance with appropriate Polish regulations and principles
that respect International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as issued by IFAC, by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, will be performed: in the case of the project, annually for each fiscal year of the life of the project as
well as at the completion of the project; and in the case of the implementing agencies, annually for each
fiscal year of the life of the project. The scope of the project audit will agree with that outlined in the Bank'
s Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) and in Annex 10 to the Project
Financial Management Manual and will include an audit of the PMRs, a Summary Statement of SOEs
submitted in the period and a Special Account Statement. The audit of the project's financial statements
will probably require the appropriate inclusion of the financial systems and records of the project teams and
implementing agencies, as deemed necessary by the project's auditors. The scope of the audits of the
implementing agencies will include their financial statements prepared in accordance with appropriate
Polish regulations and principles that respect International Accounting Standards (IAS) as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Committee. The audited financial statements will be prepared and
submitted within six months of the end of every fiscal year. The short-listing of the project's potential
auditors is a condition of project effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and
disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Major environmental issues: environmental issues are primarily associated with component C
- 29 -



(Infrastructure). Under this component, the issues are likely to be experienced primarily in the construction
phase ( land clearing, movement of men, equipment and materials to and from project site, etc.). However,
if the projects are improperly designed, environmental issues would be manifested during operations (e.g.
wastewater sludge disposal, solid waste leachates contaminating groundwater supplies, etc.).
Other environmental issues: the variety of sub-projects likely to be supported under the project will require
careful attention and evaluation by responsible local/regional (voivodship, gmina etc.) and possibly national
environmental authorities. Environmental legislation and the environmental regulatory framework in Poland
are in general both adequate and effective. However, specific local institutional capability and mechanisms
must be carefully delineated and assessed for effectiveness.
Justification/Rationale for category rating: projects will be identified and prepared at local levels. Since
funds will flow through intermediate institutions, the Fl Category (financial instruments) is considered most
appropriate.
A rural environmental protection project has been negotiated in January 1999. For RDP, as part of project
preparation a paper has been prepared that: i) describes the main features of the Polish environmental law
and procedures as they apply to the types of sub-projects likely to be funded under the project; ii) assesses
the quality of the implementation of those procedures in the proposed project area, with special attention to
less-developed regions; and iii) pinpoints any areas where procedures may need tightening, staff may need
training or the Bank's prior review of sub-projects might be indicated. Results of the study have been used
to guide pertinent parts of the operational manual.
Actions taken during project preparation: specific mechanisms and specific institutions likely to be
responsible for specific sub-project environmental evaluation, permitting, licensing, approval etc. have been
identified. Furthermore, an assessment of the technical capabilities of environmental institutions has been
done, and as required a program of institutional strengthening has been included in the project for them to
effectively discharge their responsibilities for environmental approval. Additionally, a comparison between
World Bank environmental review (EA) requirements and those of Poland has been made. To the extent
that differences (e.g. category assignment, public participation, documentation and implementation
requirements for environmental management plans etc.) were found, local Polish environmental institutions
have been provided with adequate and sufficient strengthening to review and approve projects in a manner
that is consistent with both requirements of Polish law and World Bank environmental policies and
procedures.
Local groups and NGOs consulted: numerous self-government organizations, foundations and NGOs have
been consulted during identification. Many of these are also participating together with ministries and
agencies in the Inter-Agency Task Force convened to assist in criteria selection and other aspects of project
preparation. A partial list of domestic non-governmental and self-government organizations contacted to
date includes:
*   Water Supply Foundation
*   Ekoland Association
*   Polish Academy of Science
*   EcoFund
*   Polish Foundation for SME Promotion and Development
*   Voivodship Offices in all project provinces repeatedly
*   Malopolska Regional Council
*   European Fund for Polish Village Development
- 30 -



*   Fund for Development of Polish Agriculture (FDPA)
*   Agriculture Development Fund
*  Association of Gminas
*   Upper Raba Water-shed Federation
*   Many project powiats, and an average of forty project gminas.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
This project covers the whole territory of the country and is characterized as a bottom-up approach in
identifying small infrastructure projects. This approach requires an adequate environmental management
capacity to enforce compliance of environmental standards and procedures. Following an institutional
assessment of the environmental management capacity, it was decided that local environment department
would be responsible for environmental screening of potential investment projects issuing environment
permits and enforcement of the permits. During project implementation, the implementing agencies will be
required to measure environmental progress against environmental indicators incorporated in the
Operational Manual as well as in the environment permits.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: April 29, 1999
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During project preparation, environment screening was incorporated in project identification at the
community level through direct consultations with beneficiary communities. Responsibility for
enforcement of environmental standards and procedures is with the local environment departments
throughout the country. As discussed above, the institutional environmental management capacity in
Poland is in general sufficient to assure compliance with environmental standards and laws.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Each small infrastructure investment project would be subject to environmental screening and permitting by
appropriate environment department. Only project projects that comply with EU and Polish environmental
standards will be eligible for project financing. Environmental indicators have been incorporated in the
Operational Manual and each voivodship implementation unit will provide an annual summary of the
environmental impacts of the implemented investments.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Social Assessment consisted of two main activities (see Annex I 1): (a) a collection of case studies,
expert consultations, and position papers focusing on the three topical areas of local governance, education,
and employment; and (b) the start of a system of monitoring and evaluation of primary schools in two
voivodships. Fieldwork in the form of in-depth interviews and participatory observation was carried out in
three rural towns in the Southeastern voivodship of Podkarpacki by a network of researchers highly
respected in the fields of anthropology and sociology; students; and community field workers and NGO
representatives with expertise in rural development and village life. The second activity involved a
collaboration with the Curator's Office in the Podkarpacki voivodship to build upon, and standardize,
existing data collection efforts taking place at individual schools with the aim to assess how they are faring
- 31 -



before and after consolidation.
The poor rural infrastructure contributes to a number of problems in rural Poland. Poor
telecommunications prevent rural residents from finding out about job opportunities, and enterprises from
reaching their markets. The costs and infrequency of transportation likewise interfere with schooling and
employment. Transportation costs discourage individuals from seeking employment away from agriculture,
and limits families' ability to pay for their children's education. Poor transportation also interferes with
agricultural business by raising costs and lowering the quality of perishable foods which must be delivered
quickly, and may add costs to setting up non-agricultural businesses.
Citizens' participation in government appears limited both by a culture of passivity and by the scarcity of
formalized opportunities to participate in decisions which affect their lives. Their reactions to educational
reform are a case in point. Education is seen as a priority by the citizens; however, they feel ambivalence
towards the decentralization of education. While they support pedagogical and curriculum reforms, they
express uncertainty about the ability of sub-national governments to pay for education without financial
support from the central government. They feel distressed by the hasty introduction of reforms and the lack
of consultation with local officials and residents. Moreover, the closure of schools, which have often been
important foci of community activism and cooperation, is seen as a blow to local prestige. Therefore,
instead of being completely shut down, local schools should be converted into community centers which
would both be able to take over some non-pedagogical functions of education like extracurricular activities,
and would provide a location in which gmina officials could meet on a regular basis with local residents.
This would also help overcome local resistance to educational reform by seeking out community input and
retaining the benefits of past cooperation.
Self-government officials often do not devote enough attention to actively seeking input from citizens, nor
do they actively seek out opportunities to co-operate with other gminas or develop specific plans for their
gminas. Instances of "best practice" by government officials appear to be the results of the specific
personalities involved, rather than the operation of regularized government procedures. Therefore,
programs should be developed to raise the professionalization of gmina officials, who should be required to
formally engage their communities on a more frequent, regularized basis. In addition, they should receive
assistance in developing realistic plans for their communities. Examples of "best practice" in community
relations, development planning, and inter-gmina cooperation can be found in various actions of
self-governments, especially those in the Upper Raba water-shed (Malopolskie voivodship).
Although many residents are willing to find non-farm employment, existing job training programs do not
provide skills appropriate to the new economy. Individuals seeking to start their own business are hindered
by poor rural infrastructure, and by a lack of credit to support such ventures. Therefore, job training and
support for entrepreneurship in the countryside need to be developed. In particular, job training must
become more responsive to the needs of job seekers as they themselves express them, and a credit program
should be instituted to provide capital for enterprises which would take advantage of the rural regions'
existing advantages, namely, natural beauty and traditional farming methods. Agro-tourism and small-scale
market food production should be encouraged.
Recommendations from the Social Assessment have been incorporated in the project design and
implementation in the following ways. First, a variety of mechanisms have been put into place to ensure
on-going and regular public participation. Second, a follow-on Social Assessment addressing issues related
to the school network, has been conducted in early August. The findings of the assessment have been used
to assist the Bank in making recommendations to the gmina departments of education on the ways they can
mitigate any negative consequences arising from the school consolidation process. Third, examples of best
- 32 -



practice in the two areas of private sector development and education will be supported during project
implementation. These examples are important in showing residents how they can support investments
through locally-inspired community initiatives. Fourth, gender issues have become more fully integrated
into monitoring and evaluation through the development of gender-based indicators and through the
adoption of equal opportunity criteria in the allocation of SME credit.
In addition to these activities, a set of social indicators (refer to Annex 12) for the project as a whole and
for each component will be regularly monitored during supervision. Education indicators at the school level
will also monitor the progress of schools and students before and after school consolidation.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary project beneficiaries will be rural residents, and those served by public utilities (recipients of new
and improved services), civil servants (recipients of training and better systems management), unemployed
persons and former state farm employees (recipients of training and greater job opportunities), new and
existing entrepreneurs (recipients of credit, technical assistance, training), parents and children (recipients
of better quality schools), teachers and local administrators (recipients of training and an improved teaching
environment), and women. Hundreds of these individuals have been interviewed by Bank staff and
consultants (including professionally qualified local consultants) involved in project design, and a larger
number were formally canvassed and surveyed. The design of the project is the result of this effort, as well
as the formal choices of the elected local leaders concerned.
Other stakeholders would include: government institutions (MOF, MARD, MOLPS, MONE, MEP,
MIAPA), self-governments and financial organizations, NGOs, private sector organizations, and EU
institutions and other donors addressing rural development issues in Poland. The Government of Poland is a
key stakeholder because it is interested to see that a viable financing system for rural development
develops, and because it seeks admission into the EU, which will require improved environmental and
economic development conditions in lagging rural regions.
These organizations have participated in the design process in a number of ways. First, individual gminas
and associations of local communities have been consulted on past efforts to finance infrastructure and on
priority investment needs. Literally dozens of gminas, in every corner of Poland, have been visited and
canvassed in detail by Bank mission staff over 1998-1999, and over a thousand self-government officials
participated in seminars for identification of sub-projects. These consultations were critical in pushing
gmina officials to develop their land use plans and prepare proposals for the pipeline, and to mobilize local
support for the project. A needs assessment has also been done for the education component. Second, an
umbrella network of mostly urban based business incubators, established under a Bank-supported urban
employment project, has been consulted on ways to apply the concept of business incubators to rural areas.
Positive impressions gained from visits to several urban incubators led to the conclusion that rural
incubators should be supported in this project. Third, the Social Assessment utilized a highly participatory
approach with contributions from local residents and employees of school and employment institutions,
officials at the MONE and MOLSP, community based workers, NGO personnel, university professors, and
school curators in one voivodship (See Annex 11). Fourth, surveys, beneficiary assessments, and public
awareness campaigns and consultations are planned as regular activities under the various components and
sub-components. These consultations will provide much of the informational bases of the sub-components,
and their results will serve as mechanisms for stakeholders and beneficiaries to voice their opinions, and in
some instances, actively participate in project activities. Finally, there has been tremendous grassroots
involvement from over 32 NGOs during project preparation. NGOs, together with Ministries and other
agencies, developed the eligibility criteria for the selection of gminas into the project, as well as assisted
- 33 -



other areas of project preparation. NGOs will play important roles during project implementation, chiefly
as service providers of educational and employment services and training, and as partners in the creation
and operation of business centers.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
N/A
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
/NA
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           Z Yes El No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   El Yes Z No
EI orestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   LO Yes 1 No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       l Yes Z No
L Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   EJ Yes 1X No
El Indigenous Peoples (of 4.20)                                   l Yes 1 No
l Involuntary Resettlement (OI  4.30)                             LI Yes 1 No
L Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               L Yes Z No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.5G7.5O          l Yes Z No
l Projects in Disputed Areas OP 7.60, HP 7.60. GP 7.60)           l Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project has developed procedures for identifying and screening investment projects, that will ensure the
efficient and transparent use of funds. This system will allow for parallel financing of projects from
different EU sources (SAPARD and PHARE), therefore creating the basis for the absorption of EU
structural funds after accession of Poland to the EU. This system will also create the basis for cooperation
between the local and national governments in achieving regional and national objectives in a harmonized
way. In addition, sustainability will also be ensured by the demand-driven identification of projects, and the
substantial required local co-financing. A project management structure and a maintenance plan for
infrastructure, including sustained annual budgeting and appropriate user fees, will be an obligatory part of
the design of each sub-project. Appropriate TA is provided to enhance sustainability of sub-projects. The
main difficulty faced by the off-farm employment sub-component in achieving sustainability is the low
incidence of entrepreneurship in the country's rural areas, which implies that achieving sustainability in
rural Poland may require more time than in other environments.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
- 34 -



RRisk                      k kRating          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient demand for labor               M         Reliance upon past experiences of job creation
redeployment exists                                   efficiency and interviews with selected existing
and prospective rural entrepreneurs
Insufficient demand for microcredit in      M         Affordability analysis of microcredits and
target voivodships                                    surveys about willingness to become
self-employed in rural areas show sufficient
demand for microcredits by rural unemployed
Gminas not willing to participate in the    M         Provide packages of support for school
education programs                                    consolidation and financing of packages
Decision makers and senior staff in local   M         Finance a promotion and dissemination
and regional administrations not applying             campaign to increase awareness of the need for
for training                                          training of the public administration employees,
and develop a system to link training and career
advancements
EU grant financing replaces Bank            M         EU cannot finance 100% of project costs,
financing                                             beneficiaries will have to submit identified
projects for EU co-financing as part of total
financing package
Poor institutional capacity at the local    M         VPIUs will provide assistance to gminas in
level to implement the project                        tendering contracts, and the sub-component on
Institution Building will increase efficiency and
effectiveness in local and regional
administrations
Lack of inter-ministerial coordination      S         NSC will approve by-laws to ensure an efficient
co-ordination at the inter-ministerial level
Microfiance program may be more             M         Thorough financial and economic analysis has
expensive than the instruments currently              been carried out which indicates that a survival
used by the government to deal with long              rate of micro-enterprises created under the
term rural unemployment                               component above 59 percent after two years
would make the proposed package more cost
effective than the current regime
From Components to Outputs
Lack of local and donors co-financing       M         Obtain commitments during project preparation
from key local sources; involve EU in project
preparation; develop a pipeline of projects
during preparation, including pro forma
financing packages
EU and the Bank apply complex and           S         Substantial efforts put in project preparation to
different procurement and co-financing                simplify procurement and co-financing
procedures                                            procedures; possibility to change the operational
manual during implementation if necessary
- 35 -



Overall Risk Rating                           S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk               Type   Ris    Risk Minimization Measure
Of      k
Risk    Rati
ng
Selection of       S and   S       Appointment of an inter-agency task
geographic areas    0              force to deal with the selection issue
for project        (politi         and geographic coverage of project.
activities         cal)            Reliance on objective algorithms
Extension of the   S and   S       Build a strong PCU and an
program to the     0               implementation system operable by
rest of the country                Polish self-governments. Still, even
moderate early success will build
strong political pressure from the
excluded remainder of the country
for a quick, and much larger
follow-up project
Priority ranking of  G      M      Reliance upon transparent and
types of                           democratic political processes at the
infrastructure in a                local level
given locale
Selection of       G        M      Fostering discussions focusing on
project                            solutions, within the inter-agency
implementing                       task force (see above)
institutions at
central and local
levels
Type of Risk _ S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management
capacity), 0 (Other)
- 36 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
* Staffing of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), to the standards specified in page 15
* Signing of the Funding Agreements (page 14), between the Marszaleks of a minimum of five
voivodships and the Chairman of the National Steering Committee (NSC)
* Signing of service contracts between the Marszaleks of at least five voivodships and the respective
nominated Voivodship Project Implementation Units (VPIU, page 13)
* A financial management system for the project acceptable to the Bank is in place (page 28)
* The approval by the Bank of a short-list of project's auditors (page 29)
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Negotiations Conditions
* The appointment of a Director for the PCU, whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank
v The appointment of the project teams in the line ministries responsible for monitoring the
implementation of each component and sub-component (Monitoring Function, page 15)
v  The establishment of the NSC, as specified under National Steering Committee, page 14
* The establishment of the Regional Steering Committees (RSC), as specified under Regional Steering
Committee, page 13
* A decision upon the financial management arrangements of the project has been taken by the Borrower
as specified under Flow of Funds, page 14
Board Conditions
* The Borrower will present a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank to introduce a financial
management system. Under this time-bound action plan, the Borrower will indicate how to strengthen
the said financial management system in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31,
2000, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports acceptable to the Bank
Disbursement Conditions for the Micro-credit component
* Selection of at least one voivodship in which the program will be implemented
* Legal Agreement with BGK signed
* Selection of at least one service provider
* Consultant services contracts and agency agreements with selected service providers signed
- 37 -



* Financial management and internal control systems acceptable to the World Bank in place at the
service providers and BGK
*   Financing of up to US$100,000 will be available to the Department of Structural and Regional Policy
(DSPR) for eligible expenditure for consultant services incurred after the World Bank Loan has
become effective
Project Management
* Maintenance of the NSC, and its convening at least once per quarter
* The Government of Poland (GOP) shall cause the NSC, RSCs, PCU and all project units to abide by
the provisions of the operational manual
* The GOP shall cause the NSC, RSCs, VPIUs, all project gminas, and all other project units to abide
by Poland's Environmental Protection Law and all pertinent regulations for all project activities,
throughout the life of the project (see section Environmental 5.1 pages 29 to 31 and annex 13)
- The GOP shall cause all project units and jurisdictions to abide by sub-project and activity selection
criteria outlined in annex 2
* Any change of the director of the PCU shall be approved by the Bank
Audits and Accounts
* Standard auditing covenants will apply
* The Borrower will open and properly maintain a Special Account
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
- Standard reporting covenants will apply
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 I. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
N 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 38 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
g 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
tior M. Wiczyglk, J'cph 1. Goldber                     ,         Basil G Kav1dlsky
Team Leader                      $cctor Manager/DirOctor          Country ManagerlOlr.ctor
- 39 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector! country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Sustain and foster private   *Increase in non-farm rural   *Main Statistical Office  *Off-farm employment
sector growth, by increasing   employment; numbers of  (GUS); annual reports Polish  increases per capita income
private sector participation    SMEs established in rural    Foundation for SME  in rural areas, reduces
in infrastructure         areas; numbers of rural    Promotion and Developmen   poverty and enhances job
development, especially in   infrastructure services in  t; annual reports of the  opportunities for women.
rural areas, and          private hands.             Voivoda's Office
strengthening human capital
growth
*Assist process of integration *Progress towards meeting    *Government's periodic  *EU membership will
with the European Union   targets for EU accession in   reports to EU and periodic   increase rural average
environmental management,  EU assessments; published   incomes and improve living
rural development and     results of accession       conditions in rural areas
agriculture,              negotiations.
*Improve labor productivity of *Reduction in the level of    eGUS; Labor Statistical  *A competitive agricultural
Polish agriculture and    hidden unemployment in     Yearbook; government       sector will reduce poverty
agroindustry              agriculture,               budget                     and facilitate agro-industrial
development in rural areas,
improve the welfare of youth
and women, and help
preserving the environment
and the country's cultural
heritage.
-40 -



1~~~~~~~ -PSo m-  r.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
*The overall project's     *Number of jobs outside     *Labor Statistical Yearbook   *Government continues to
objectives are to (i) increase   agriculture created in project                    support the decentralization
the level of sustainable    gminas, as compared to    *Supervision reports         process
off-farm employment in     non-project gminas                                     * Local communities'
rural areas,              *Cost per job created                                    participation
*Increase in non-agricultural                          * Sufficient institutional
income in project gminas                               capacity in place at the local
*Number of enterprises                                  level to implement the
established                                            project
* Co-operation at the
interministerial level
*(ii) contribute to the    *Guidelines in place and
on-going decentralization of  regional assistance provided
self-government and        to rural gminas in analyzing,
regional development, and    preparing and implementing
(iii) assist Poland in building projects
institutional capacity to
absorb EU pre-accession and
structural funds.
- 41 -



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                 . . . .   . . ..   . . .  . . . . .::. +
...F..o,."...E',,X,,',",'.,a,,.,,",ow,,... ~ " ...................
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
*Component A -               *Engagement of at least one   *Periodic reports by the     *Demand for microcredit in
Micro-credit: assist the     service provider              VPIUs and the MOLSP and   target voivodships and cost
Government in promoting    *Establishment of at least four  semi-annual Sub-component  effectiveness of the
micro-enterprises to create    service provider outlets in  Implementation Reviews       microcredit program
and maintain                 the rural areas of the selected  conducted jointly by the  vis-a-vis the current regime
self-employment in rural     voivodships                   DSRP, the relevant VPIUs      of passive social assistance to
areas, and allow empirical   *Disbursement of 2,700        and the Bank                  rural unemployed
comparisons of this proactive  micro-loans to previously    *Quarterly PMRs from
approach versus the current   unemployed and micro rural   December 31, 2000
predominant regime of        entrepreneurs
passive social assistance   oDisbursement of 1,500
grants to eligible
beneficiaries
eAdvisory services delivered
to at least 2,000 beneficiaries
*Service Provider Subsidy
Dependence Index that has
decreased every quarter and
with a value of less than 80
percent after two years of
operations for each
participating service
provider
*Sub-component B-I - Labor  *Job placement and             oSupervision reports, and     *Sufficient demand for labor
Redeployment: economic       self-employment rates         periodic reports by the PMUs  redeployment exists
and labor market             increased as compared to      and the PCU
information provided to      pre-project time             eQuarterly PMRs from
individuals and human                                      December 31, 2000
capital development
institutions, lower
unemployment rates as
compared to pre project
times, lower poverty levels,
and higher average incomes
in participating communities
- 42 -



*Sub-component B-2 -      * Number of teachers and    * Supervision reports     eGminas have technical
Education: better educated  school directors trained  prepared by MONE and      capacity to prepare and
graduates from compulsory  * Number of primary schools   VPIUs                  present proposals, and are
education (primary school   and gymnasia benefiting   * Resource center's internal   willing to participate in the
and gymnasium), who have    from the program for      reporting system          program
the capacity to actively   improving the quality of   * Quarterly PMRs from
participate in the creation  teaching and school      December 31, 2000
and development of a        equipment
dynamic private sector in    * Number of teachers trained
rural areas, and who have  in information technology
life-long-learning skills  in primary schools and
required by the            gymnasia in the target rural
democratization of the Polish   gminas, and number of
society and the             rural schools receiving
modernization of its       software
economy; and an efficiently  * Number of schools
run public education system    rehabilitated, upgraded and
refurbished
* Number of users accessing
information and documents
through the internet based
resource center
*Sub-component B-3 -      *Number of decision makers  * Supervision reports     *Decision makers and senior
Institution Building in Local  and senior staff trained in   *Quarterly PMRs from  staff in local and regional
and Regional              selected administrative units  December 31, 2000      administrations will apply
Administrations: a        for an average of 30 days of                          for training
significant contribution to    training
the development of a     *Significant improvement in
framework needed for      public services in about 20
improving the management   pilot administrative units
of human and financial
resources in local
administrations
- 43 -



*Component C -             *Total investments in rural   *Supervision reports     *EU grant financing will not
Infrastructure: investments   infrastructure         *Evaluation study            replace Bank financing
in improved and developed   *Water sector: amount of  *Quarterly PMRs from
rural infrastructure,      water produced, number of   December 31, 2000
increased awareness of the    water connections; number
complex linkages between   of sewer connections, bill
communications             collection rate, tariff levels
infrastructure, knowledge,    ($/m3); loss (% of
and economic and social    production), operating
development, with particular  expense per m3
focus on rural areas, and  oRoads sector: km of roads
better quality and efficiency   upgraded or built, average
of rural infrastructure    daily traffic, operation &
services                   maintenance cost per km,
number of accidents
*Solid waste sector: solid
waste collection capacity,
landfill capacity, operation &
maintenance cost
oNumber of operators trained
*Number of projects which
received TA
- 44 -



......,,   ....    .   .                                          ..... ..,.. . .  , , ,, .. . '  '  '''' ' '        ' ':;
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
eComponent A - Micro-credit *US$19.05 million      *Semi-annual Sub-component
Implementation Reviews
*Sub-component B-I - Labor *US$44.84 million        *Disbursement reports     *The EU and the Bank
Redeployment                                                                 streamline their procurement
and co-financing procedure_
*Sub-component B-2 -     *US$24.67 million          * Semi-annual supervision
Education                                            mission reports
*Sub-component B-3 -      *US$12.62 million         oQuarterly PMRs from
Institution Building in Local                      December 31, 2000
and Regional
Administrations
*Component C -           *US$194.89 million
Infrastructure
*Component D - Project   *US$3.77 million
Management
- 45 -



Annex 2: Project Description
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Components
Component A: Micro-credit                            p.45
Component Objectives                                 p.45
Tasks
One-time Grants to the Rural Unemployed        p.46
Microloans to the Rural Unemployed             p.47
Advisory Services to Micro-entrepreneurs       p.48
Component Management                           p.48
Implementation                                       p.48
Flow of Funds                                        p.51
Costs                                                p.53
Component B: Human Capital Development
Sub-Component B-I: Labor Redeployment                p.55
Sub-component Objectives                             p.55
Tasks
Economic and Labor Market Surveys              p.56
Labor Redeployment Services                    p.56
Costs                                                 p.57
Expected Output                                       p.57
Implementation                                       p.57
Methodology for Identifying Sub-projects             p.59
Flow of Funds                                        p.60
Disbursement                                         p.60
Sub-Component B-2: Education                         p.60
Sub-component Objectives                             p.60
Tasks
Teacher Training                               p.60
School Equipment                               p.61
Introduction of Computers                      p.61
Improving School Facilities and Education Efficiency   p.61
Support to project dissemination               p.61
Costs                                                p.61
Expected Output                                      p.62
Implementation                                       p.62
Methodology for Identifying Sub-projects              p.64
Flow of Funds                                        p.64
Co-financing                                          p.64
Sub-Component B-3: Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations
- 46 -



Sub-component Objectives                              p.65
Tasks
Institutional Development Programs             p.66
Training Programs                              p.66
Capacity Building and Studies                  p.69
Flow of Funds                                         p.69
Costs                                                 p.69
Expected Output                                       p.70
Component C: Rural Infrastructure                     p.71
Component Objectives                                  p.71
Tasks
Investment Portfolio                           p.71
Training of Technical Staff                    p.72
Technical Assistance for VPIU Staff            p.73
Costs                                                 p.74
Expected Output                                       p.74
Implementation                                        p.75
Methodology for Identifying Sub-projects              p.77
Flow of Funds                                         p.78
Co-financing                                          p.78
Component D: Project management                       p.79
Costs                                                 p.79
- 47 -



1. Project Components
1.    The project is designed so that individual elements from any component can be implemented at the
local level, singly or in combination with others. For example, a gmina may identify the need for a
waste-water treatment investment, training for several unemployed in business management, and a credit to
help an entrepreneur start a small business. A package of services and investments will be developed to
meet these needs drawing on resources across all project components. Such packages will form a part of
the broader investment program submitted by gminas to the regional authorities for co-financing. The new
administrative structures that began operating as of January 1, 1999 were obliged to formulate investment
plans by the end of June 1999.
2.     The following are the components and sub-components financed under the project:
Component A: Micro-credit
Component B: Human Capital Development
Sub-Component B-I: Labor Redeployment
Sub-Component B-2: Education
Sub-Component B-3: Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations
Component C: Rural Infrastructure.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$19.05 million
Component A: Microcredit (USS19.05 million).
3.     Component Objectives. The objective of this component is to assist the Government in promoting
micro-enterprises to create and maintain self-employment in rural areas. A micro-enterprise in this context
is defined as enterprise with five or less employees. In so doing, it will allow empirical comparisons of this
proactive approach versus the current predominant regime of passive social assistance. In particular, the
component will promote off-farm self-employment in rural gminas of five voivodships. These five
voivodships will be selected by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP) on the basis of the
following criteria: (i) high unemployment rates in rural areas, (ii) high share of households with state
agriculture as main source of income in 1988, (iii) high number of employed in state agriculture as a
percentage of the total population working in agriculture in 1988, and (iv) state-used land as a percentage
of total agricultural land in 1988.
4.    In addition to the criteria listed above to select the voivoships in which the component will be
implemented, the Borrower may explore the possibility of including as an additional criterion the
willingness of potentially interested voivodship governments to contribute additional resources to the
component. These additional resources may (a) finance a portion of incremental costs incurred in
implementing the component, (b) increase the pool of funds to be on-lent to eligible micro-borrowers under
the component in the corresponding voivodship, or (c) both. The introduction of such a criterion, and its
detailed implementation arrangements will require Bank agreement.
5.    Investments in acquiring the empirical evidence alluded to above, of the relative
cost-effectiveness of micro-enterprise promotion versus social welfare payments, are justified because
government interventions in labor and rural financial markets are very costly. Any mistakes may be
- 48 -



extremely expensive. Hence, the component will underpin actions to improve policy development for
dealing with rural unemployment, which is one of the most urgent public policy issues in Poland.
6.     The ex-ante economic and financial analysis in Annex 4 provides reasonable indications that
a package of grants, technical assistance, and micro-loans to create new and promote existing
micro-enterprises may become a cost effective alternative to the instruments used by the government
to deal with long term rural unemployment. The analysis compares the expected costs of these
alternative instruments for reasonable values of variables such as (a) size of start-up grants, (b)
survival rates of newly created micro-enterprises, (c) loan losses on micro-credits, (d) administrative
costs and service fees, (e) expected duration of unemployment spells, and (f) social assistance
payments to unemployed.
7.     Tasks. To achieve its objectives, the component will finance (a) one-time small grants for the
chronically unemployed to compensate for labor market regulations which make the transition from
dependence on social security assistance to reliance on self-employment simply too risky; (b) micro-loans
to new and existing rural micro-enterprises; (c) advisory services for newly established micro-enterprises
created under the component; and (d) component implementation and management costs incurred by the
National Economy Bank (BGK) which has been identified as the implementing agency, the MOLSP and the
non-governmental organizations or financial institutions which will be selected to assist in implementing the
component as Service Providers (SPs); as well as (e) technical assistance to these entities. All project costs
include a small (2.5%) contingency. Details on these activities follow.
8.     One-time Grants to the Rural Unemployed (US$2.9 million). The Government will provide
enough resources as counterpart funding for the component to allocate a one-time-only grant of PLN3,600
(US$842.5 equivalent) to those individuals who meet the eligibility criteria detailed below.
9.    It is expected that during the implementation of the component approximately 3,400 beneficiaries
will receive these grants. The total amount of grants is thus expected to be about PLN 12.2 million (US$2.9
million equivalent).
10.    The purpose of the grants is to provide chronically unemployed rural residents with the resources
to pay the minimum social insurance premium, the so called ZUS tax (Zaklad Ubezpieczen Spolecznycm)
required by law, PLN3,600 a year. The grants will be disbursed in four quarterly installments of PLN900
each (US$210.6 equivalent). The second, third, and fourth installments will be contingent on verification of
continued self-employment and eligibility criteria of beneficiaries. The grants are justified in the context of
this component because it is unlikely that unemployed individuals would be willing to relinquish social
assistance subsidies and pay ZUS taxes upon gaining (registered) self-employment. Thus, they may serve
as a critical prerequisite for wide participation in the micro-credit program.
II.    Eligibility Criteria for One-time Grants. Beneficiaries of grants must (a) have resided in the
rural gminas of the selected voivodships for at least one year; (b) intend to become self-employed by
establishing a micro-business in such gminas; (c) insure that their micro-businesses comply with all
applicable laws and regulations in force in Poland; and (d) meet one or more of the following additional
conditions (i) be a registered unemployed, (ii) be beneficiary of social aid willing to give up such assistance
upon gaining self-employment, or (iii) be full time farmers controlling less than 3 hectares of land.
12.    Eligible individuals may receive only one grant during the implementation of the component.
SPs and BGK (see implementation arrangements beldw) will maintain and share among themselves a
list of all grant recipients. These lists will include the name and national identification card number
- 49 -



(Dowod Osobisty) of each grant beneficiary and will be used to prevent individuals from obtaining
more than one grant.
13.    Micro-loans to the Rural Unemployed and Existing Micro-Entrepreneurs (US$13.89 million).
The component will provide financing for a US$13.89 million line of micro-credit to finance eligible
sub-projects. Funding for the credit line will be obtained from the World Bank loan (US$10.42 million) and
from the Service Providers (US$3.47 million) which will be selected to assist in implementing the
component (see implementation arrangements below). The following are the main terms and conditions for
the allocation and recovery of the component's credit line.
14.    Eligible Borrowers and Sub-projects. Borrowers eligible to obtain micro-loans under the
component will comply with the following conditions: (a) they will be either unemployed willing to gain
self-employment outside agriculture or existing micro rural entrepreneurs (e.g. cottage industry producers,
agro-processors, artisans, service providers, and small traders and merchants); (b) they will be residents of
the rural gminas of the selected voivodships, including towns within those voivodships of less than 15,000
inhabitants; (c) they will be individuals (physical persons), although their enterprises may be incorporated
as legal entities; and (d) their newly established or existing micro-businesses must comply with all
applicable laws and regulations in force in Poland, including registration requirements.
15.    According to the Law on Economic Activity dated December 23, 1988 (article 9) economic
activities performed by persons from which those persons earn an additional income (casual
profit-making occupation), shall not be required to be registered. They will be, therefore, also eligible
to receive micro-credits under the component despite not being registered. The exempted activities are
(a) production for self-consumption and production of handicrafts and art; (b) maintenance of family
or farm equipment, including houses, and other services performed with own materials and tools,
except profit-making transportation of passengers; (c) commercial transactions of agricultural
products including vegetables, fruit, animals, meat, forest products and meals; and (d) leasing of
rooms or lots for tents given by farmers to tourists within the areas of their farms as well as the sale
of meals and performance of other services connected therewith.
16.   Micro-loans financed under the component could finance all short and medium term
investments required to start new or expand existing rural micro-enterprises. Short and medium-term
investments are those whose cash flows will allow repayment of micro-loans within 36 months. Land,
existing buildings and other assets previously used in the rural sector (except breeding livestock) will
be ineligible as well as investments in tobacco production and processing.
17.    Terms and conditions on micro-loans. As detailed in the section on implementation
arrangements (see below), non-governmental organizations or financial institutions with sufficient
financial means and the willingness-to accept the risk for at least 25 percent of the micro-loans will
be selected as service providers (SPs) to assist in implementing the component. Therefore, the
conditions on micro-loans set forth below reflect those of micro-loans jointly funded by the
Government using World Bank Loan proceeds and by the SPs using their own resources.
18.    The maximum amount outstanding of all the micro-loans granted to a single borrower will be
US$5,000 equivalent. The maximum repayment term for micro-loans will be 36 months. Repayment
terms and schedules for each micro-loan will be determined by the SPs on the basis of the cash flow
profile of the sub-project financed. Collateral requirements would be determined by SPs to adequately
cover the risks associated with the nature of the sub-borrower's activities. Acceptable security will
include (a) joint and several liability among groups of borrowers (i.e. group lending); (b) co-signers
- 50 -



with fiduciary liability for the micro-loans; and (c) real assets pledged as collateral.
19.    The interest rate on micro-loans will be the weighted average of (a) the interest rate charged
by the Government on its 75 percent share of each micro-loan, and (b) the interest rate charged by the
eligible Services Providers on the remaining 25 percent of each micro-loan. The initial rate charged
by the Government on its share of the funds will be 13 percent (this rate is based on the 12% interest
rate on 1-year Treasury Bills plus a 1% risk margin). The rate charged by SPs on their share will be
determined by SPs on the basis of prevailing local market conditions but it will not be more than 500
basis points above the rate charged by the Government on its share. The interest rates on the
Government's and the relevant voivodship self-government's share of micro-loans will be determined
semi-annually and in no case would be below the six-month average official inflation plus 150 basis
points.
20.    Micro-loans will be denominated in PLN and the Government and the SPs will bear the
foreign exchange risk on their corresponding shares. The exchange risk to the Government ought to
be compensated by the interest rate differential between IBRD's standard rate and the rates paid on
project funds by borrowers. This differential is considered appropriate because the exchange rate risk
is low as the country enjoys exchange rate stability, international capital mobility, and low inflation.
The Government will accrue interest and principal payments on its 75 percent share of each
micro-loan exactly in the same terms and conditions (back-to-back) of the micro-loans allocated to
eligible borrowers.
21.    At the end of component implementation, the Government will decide on the future allocation
of (a) its 75 percent share of the outstanding portfolio of micro-loans, and (b) cash from interest and
principal payments generated under the component. Options available to the Government for these
assets include (a) continuing with a similar program, (b) divesting its share in the portfolio of
micro-loans, (c) reverting to the Government's budget the interest and principal collected as
micro-loans mature.
22.    Advisory Services to Micro-Entrepreneurs (US$0.28 million). The SPs will provide technical
assistance and business advice to borrowers and beneficiaries of grants. These non-financial services will
focus on (a) business registration; (b) business planning; (c) record keeping; and (d) taxation and relevant
legislation. Advisory services will be conducted in small groups, enabling an individual and concrete
approach, yet encouraging interaction and mutual support among group members. SPs will be able to
choose between providing these services in house and sub-contracting with suitable institutions satisfactory
to BGK and the Bank. SPs will remain, however, responsible for the quality and timely delivery of these
services.
23.    Training and Technical Assistance (US$0.28 million). The component will finance (a) training
and technical assistance to BGK and government officials (US$130,000), and (b) assistance to selected SPs
on best practices and implementation of the micro-credit program (US$150,000).
24.    Component Management (US$0.47 million). The component will also finance (a) the incremental
costs incurred by BGK in implementing the component and in managing the assets of the flow of funds
under the component (US$330,000), (b) the incremental costs incurred by the Department for Structural
and Regional Policy (DSRP) in the MOLSP in monitoring and evaluating the component (US$140,000).
25.    Implementation. The project will be implemented by BGK in close collaboration with up to five
non-governmental organizations or financial institutions which will act as SPs; the MOLSP who will have
- 51 -



the overall monitoring responsibility; and consultants widely recognized as experts in micro-finance to
provide specialized advice to BGK, the SPs and MOLSP.
26.    Treasury Bank. The Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (BGK) has been identified to act as (a)
implementing agency, and (b) treasurer and cashier for the funds available to the component. BGK
will enter into a legal agreement with the Government. Based on the legal agreement BGK will (i)
select the SPs in close cooperation with the relevant VPIUs; (ii) sign the Agency Agreements with the
selected SPs; (iii) monitor the SP's continuing compliance with eligibility criteria; (iv) disburse loan
funds and payments to the SPs; (v) collect interest accrued and principal repayments received on
micro-loans; (vi) organize financial control and audit of the SPs; and (vii) maintain adequate records
of the portion of the portfolio of micro-loans outstanding due to the Government under the
component.
27.    BGK will be the treasurer and cashier for (a) funds disbursed and to be disbursed to SPs for
financing eligible (i) grants, (ii) micro-loans, and (iii) fees for services; and (b) interest accrued and
principal repayments received on micro-loans.
28.    Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. Responsibilities within MOLSP will be allocated to
the Department for Structural and Regional Policy (DSRP). To support the DSRP, a consultant may
be recruited. The DSRP will: (a) monitor the economic sustainability, outreach, and general operation
of the SPs, (b) promote coordination and sharing of lessons learned among participating SPs, and (c)
observe and evaluate the socioeconomic profile of the component's beneficiaries. Details on these
activities are provided in the section below on Monitoring and Evaluation.
29.   Incremental costs and computer equipment for DSRP. As mentioned above, the World
Bank loan proceeds will provide financing (US$140,000) for (a) one long term consultants, and (b)
one computer (including software) and printer to assist in the monitoring and supervising of the
component. The consultant will report to the DSRP Director, and his/her services will be engaged
under individual fixed term professional service contracts (up to two years).
30.    Voivodship Project Implementation Units. The role of the relevant VPIUs will be to (a)
select service providers in close collaboration with the BGK, (b) collect monthly and semi-annually
reports from the selected service providers, and (c) inform the relevant Regional Steering Committees
(RSCs) about the performance of the service providers.
31.    Service Providers. Up to five non-governmental organizations or financial institutions with
demonstrated experience in micro-finance and/or retail lending, sufficient financial means, and the
willingness to accept the risk for at least 25 percent of the micro-loans financed under the component
will be selected on a competitive basis as service providers (SPs).
32.    Services Rendered by Service Providers. In implementing the component, the Government
will grant the authority and SPs will assume the responsibility for (a) verifying eligibility of
beneficiaries of the grants, micro-loans, and services financed under the component; (b) disbursing
grants to eligible beneficiaries; (c) allocating micro-loans to new and existing rural micro-enterprises
financed with Government resources (75 percent) and with its own resources (25 percent); (d)
providing advisory services for newly established or expanded micro-enterprises under the
component; (e) collecting repayments of interests and principals; and (f) if required, enforcing
micro-loan contracts in Poland's courts on behalf of the Government and in its own behalf.
- 52 -



33.    Eligibility criteria for service providers. Eligible SPs must be legally incorporated private
entities, satisfactory to the World Bank, which are able to demonstrate enough capabilities to deliver
microcredit and provide business services in rural areas, including (a) sound organization with
competent management, strong internal control, financial management and operational capacity, (b)
preferably an established record of delivering successfully services in rural areas and proven ability
to work with gminas and local partners, and (c) willingness and ability to share in the credit risk and
to co-finance up to 25 percent of the micro-loans allocated under the component. The risk sharing
mechanism has been designed to provide incentives to the selected SPs for the careful screening of
sub-borrowers and strong incentives to recover the micro-loans financed under the component. A list
of specific indicators for verifying the eligibility of SPs is presented in the operational manual.
34.   In appraising this component, the project team verified that there are sufficient micro-finance
organizations in Poland which comply with these eligibility criteria and which are also interested in
participating in the program. The operational manual (Section III - Annex II) also contains financial
information and letters of intention from several micro-finance NGOs in Poland. Nonetheless and in
order to guarantee a transparent and competitive selection process, there will be widespread
advertisement among all potentially qualified institutions in the country and maybe even
internationally (see below section on selection of SPs).
35.    Payments to Service Providers. Proceeds from the World Bank loan for an estimated
amount of US$1.3 million will be used to cover the fees that will be charged by SPs for their
services. This estimate corresponds to the total fees over a period of three years. The following is a
summarized itemization of the estimated fees: (a) US$920,000 to cover 75% of the initial investments
and 85% of operational costs of managing the Government's share in the portfolio of the micro-loans
component for ten micro-finance outlets in rural areas plus reasonable contingencies; (b)
US$140,000 for allocating approximately 3,400 grants to beneficiaries, the amount corresponds to 5
percent of the estimated US$2.9 million equivalent to be disbursed in grants plus reasonable
contingencies; and (c) US$280,000 to cover advisory services to an estimated number of 3,900
beneficiaries.
36.    The above service fees are just illustrative of reasonable estimated costs. The actual amount
of the fees will likely deviate from these estimates simply because SPs will be selected through
competitive bidding (see below). Organizations interested in being selected as SPs will submit bids
for the amount of fees they would require to deliver the services and take the necessary credit risks.
These bids will not necessarily coincide with the estimates above.
37.    Selection of Service Providers. The BGK together with the MOLPS and the relevant VPIUs
will be responsible for reviewing the technical and financial documents submitted by the potential
SPs. The selection of the service providers will be done in accordance with the methods specified in
annex 6.
38.    Contracting of Service Providers. Selected service providers will enter into the following
two contracts with BGK. First, a Consultant Services Contract based on the standard form of
contract for consultants' services for complex, time based assignments issued by the World Bank.
Second, an Agency and Co-financing Agreement which will be entered simultaneously to the
Consultants Service Contract. The Agency and Co-financing Agreement will be an integral part of
the Consultant Service Contract.
- 53 -



39.    The Consultant Services Contract will set forth the obligations of the SPs for (a) establishing
and maintaining adequate accounting and internal control systems to reflect all outlays and
expenditures made under the project in accordance with sound accounting practices, satisfactory to
the World Bank; (b) keeping documentation which will support disbursements of grants and
micro-credits at every stage of the component, and form the basis for generating monthly financial
statements for the SPs and the component; (c) auditing the records of all outlays under the component
each year, by auditors satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied; (d) providing all necessary information to BGK, the MOLSP and to World
Bank staff to monitor the success in terms of outreach and economic sustainability of the package of
activities financed by the component, including data (i) to compose financial statements (e.g., income
statement, balance sheet, statement of uses and origins of funds) for each SP, and (ii) to monitor the
socio-economic profile and economic activities of beneficiaries.
40.    The Agency and Co-financing Agreement's main purpose is to furnish the SPs with (a) the
obligation of using their existing own resources to co-finance and assume 25 percent of the risk
implicit in each and every micro-loan made during component implementation to eligible borrowers,
and (b) the legal authority to (i) negotiate and sign micro-loan contracts, on behalf of the
Government, with eligible borrowers, and (ii) legally enforce micro-loan contracts on behalf of the
Government; including repossessing collateral and assets from final borrowers.
41.    Consultants to Provide Technical Assistance to Government, BGK and Service
Providers. Following the selection of the SPs, the BGK, MOLSP, the VPIUs and the SPs will agree
on the subjects on which the BGK, the MOLSP, the VPIUs and SPs need technical assistance and
will contract the required consultant services. Consultants eligible for these assignments will be (a)
experts with appropriate background and experience, and (b) internationally recognized (i) consulting
firms and (ii) financial or micro-finance institutions.
42.    Consultants will provide assistance on all aspects related to designing and implementing
self-employment and micro-credit programs. Examples include (a) training SP staff; (b) selecting and
extending methodologies for non-financial self-employment services; (c) setting up monitoring and
information systems (MIS); (d) information campaigns on off-farm self employment; (e) policy
dialogue on labor and micro-finance market issues.
43.    Selection and engagement of consultants for the above activities and studies, which are
expected to amount to about US$280,000 and which will be financed from proceeds from the World
Bank Loan, will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency".
44.    Technical assistance to Service Providers is justified because adapting to the Polish context
the international experience and best practices for promoting self-employment and delivering
micro-credit requires significant experience, in addition to local experimentation. The proposed
technical assistance to SPs is aimed at adapting to Poland successful micro-finance methodologies
based on: (a) low fixed-cost structures; (b) screening borrowers on the basis of their character and
reputation; (c) conducive incentive schemes for employees making credit decisions; (d) adequate
internal control mechanisms, and (e) innovative collateral and collateral substitutes such as movable
assets and group liability, respectively.
45.    Flow of Funds. The MOF will transfer the resources required for implementing the
component to BGK following signature of the Legal Agreement. The Legal Agreement will authorize
- 54 -



BGK to transfer cash advances to SPs by crediting bank accounts established by SPs for the sole
purpose of implementing the component.
46.    These cash advances will be used for the purposes and under the terms and conditions
established in the Consultant Contracts and the Agency and Co-Financing Agreements between the
Government and SPs; namely: (a) allocating grants to eligible beneficiaries, (b) allocating
micro-loans to eligible sub-borrowers, (c) fees to SPs for (i) managing the Government's share of the
portfolio of micro-loans under the component, and (ii) technical assistance to eligible beneficiaries.
47.    The initial advance to each SP will be for an amount sufficient to cover two months of the
estimated costs of operation for each SP, according to SPs' business plans. However, in no case the
advance to a given SP will be larger than US$100,000 equivalent, or 20% of the total amount of the
contract, which ever amount is larger. SPs will prepare and present to BGK certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) to be used as the basis of replenishing these cash advances. BGK will review the
SOEs and replenishment the SP's account. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by
SPs and BGK and made available for examination by staff of the MOLSP, the World Bank, and by
external auditors.
48.    Since MOF will retain ownership of its shares of micro-loans under the component, the SPs
will provide custodial services for micro-loan contracts and BGK will keep inventory, on behalf of
the MOF of such contracts at all times.
49.    Finally, the SPs will deposit or cause final borrowers to deposit the Government's share of
interest and principal payments on micro-loans under the component in an accounts established by
BGK for the purpose of implementing the component. These accounts will hold all cash related to the
component including, initial allocations from the Government, the repayments of principal, and the
interest accrued by the Government.
50.    Monitoring and Evaluation. The innovative nature of the component requires
extraordinarily (a) close monitoring on the part of the Government, and (b) frequent supervision from
the World Bank. The MOLSP will monitor and supervise SPs operations on the basis of an approved
implementation program detail in an annex of the corresponding Consultant Services Contract.
Service providers will submit monthly reports to BGK, MOLPS and to the relevant VPIU.
51.    BGK, MOLSP, the relevant VPIUs and the World Bank will conduct jointly a Component
Implementation Review on a semi-annual basis. During the first semester of implementation, these
Implementation Reviews would be carried out quarterly. These reviews would include: (a) assessment
of component implementation, (b) evaluation of the work plan for the next six months, (c) meetings
with participating SPs, rural beneficiaries of financial services, and BGK to obtain feedback on (a)
and (b) above and to agree on any required modifications to the originally proposed program. The
relevant VPIUs will inform the RSC about the results of the Implementation Review.
52.    Component implementation would be deemed successful if the following indicators are met
(a) outreach: (i) engagement of at least one SP, (ii) the establishment of at least four SP outlets in the
rural areas of the selected voivodships, (iii) disbursement of 2,700 micro-loans to previously
unemployed and micro rural entrepreneurs, (iv) disbursement of 1,500 grants to eligible beneficiaries,
(v) advisory services delivered to at least 2,000 beneficiaries, and (b) sustainability: (i) SP Subsidy
Dependence Index that has decreased every quarter and with a value of less than 80 percent after two
years of operations for each participating SP.
- 55 -



53.   The Subsidy Dependence Index is a sensitivity measure which indicates the degree of
financial sustainability of financial intermediaries. This index would be the key indicator of the
management information system used to monitor the component. The index will be periodically
calculated for each of the pilot units and for their consolidated operation. The index includes
repayments and profits.
54.   Upon completion of the component, the MOLSP will prepare an evaluation report comparing
the cost-effectiveness of the current regime of social assistance vis-a-vis the alternative approach
financed by the component as an instrument to create and maintain rural self-employment. The report
will be conducted under terms of reference and with participation of recognized experts satisfactory
to the World Bank. The following are some of the variables that will be analyzed in the report (a)
number of previously registered unemployed individuals who gained self-employment and who gave
up social security assistance after becoming component beneficiaries; (b) "survival rates" of newly
created micro-enterprises; (c) loan losses on micro-credits; and (d) administrative costs and service
fees required to manage such a program.
55.   Costs. The following table details the total cost, source of funding, and financing percentages
for the activities that will be carried out under the component.
Table 1: Budget for the Micro-credit Component
Items            Bank        Government    Service      Total
Financing   (US$ million)   Providers   Costs
(US$                       (US$        (US
million)                   million)    million)
Start-Up Costs   0.07                       0.02        0.09
Equipment        0.05                       0.02        0.07
Training of      0.02                                   0.02
personnel
Operating        0.84                       0.16        1.00
Expenses of
Service
Providers
Administrative    0.25                      0.04        0.29
Expenses (rent,
utilities)
Salaries of      0.55                       0.10        0.65
Personnel
Depreciation and   0.04                     0.02        0.06
Amortization
- 56 -



Service          0.14                                   0.14
Providers' Fee
for Disbursing
Grants to Final
Beneficiaries
Training and     0.56                                   0.56
Technical
Assistance
Training and     0.28                                   0.28
Technical
Assistance to
Service
Providers and
BGK
Advisory         0.28                                   0.28
Services to Final
Beneficiaries
Microloans       10.42                      3.47        13.89
Credit Line      10.42                                  10.42
(financed out of
the Bank's loan)
Service                                     3.47        3.47
Providers' Risk
Sharing
Grants for Final            2.90                        2.90
Beneficiaries
Project          0.47                                   0.47
Management
Total            12.50       2.90           3.65        19.05
56.   Disbursement Conditions. The Legal Agreement between the World Bank and the Government
will establish that the following conditions must be met prior to the disbursement of the portion of the
World Bank loan proceeds allocated to finance the activities under the component: (a) selection of at least
one voivodship in which the program will be implemented; (b) Legal Agreement with BGK signed; (c)
selection of at least one SP; (b) consultant services contracts and agency agreements with selected SP(s)
signed; and (d) financial management and internal control systems acceptable to the World Bank in place at
the SPs and BGK. Financing of up to US$100,000 will be available to the DSRP for eligible expenditure
for consultant services incurred after the World Bank Loan has become effective.
Project Component 2 - US$83.13 million
- 57 -



Sub-Component B-1: Labor Redeployment (US$44.84 million).
57.   Sub-component Objectives. Poland has considerable experience in using multiple measures to
assist the hidden and registered unemployed to re-enter the labor market. These programs, referred to as
active labor programs (ALPs), are operated under the 1994 Law on Employment and Counteracting
Unemployment by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP) through a network of local labor
offices. The ALPs' menu includes employment services, public works, intervention works (wage subsidies)
and support to self-employment. In addition, there are passive income support programs, including
unemployment compensation available for a finite duration to unemployed workers with sufficient recent
work experience, and a means-tested general social assistance program available after exhaustion of the
unemployment benefit. However, many rural citizens do not qualify for unemployment benefits, because
they own land, and many others do not wish to apply for social assistance. The result is a cycle of hidden
unemployment and poverty.
58.   Currently ALPs are predominantly financed by the Labor Fund, but are implemented by a range of
contracted public, private, and NGO service providers. Additional programs and projects operated by
NGOs and specialized agencies are targeted to specific regions or villages or specific groups of
unemployed and, therefore, are relatively small. The labor redeployment sub-component will add value to
on-going efforts, and build on experiences gained by other related initiatives, including those financed by
the Government, and other agencies.
59.   The number of people retrained as part of the MOLPS's programs grew from about 82,000 in 1995
to about 134,000 in 1997. The figure for 1997 constitutes 7.3 percent of the unemployed. The total
government expenditure for retraining in 1996 equaled about 1.3 percent of the expenditures for all
government-sponsored ALPs, at an average unit cost of US$300 per unemployed. In total, less than 10
percent of the unemployed received retraining. Some 50 - 60 percent of the people retrained were able to
find a job, and net impact evaluations indicate these programs make a significant difference. Employment
services are also being provided throughout Poland, by private and public agencies, at a very low unit cost
of approximately US$30 per unemployed, and research consistently shows that these programs have a
positive net impact. Similarly, public works program constituted about 3.2 percent of ALP spending in
1996, at an average cost of US$800 per unemployed. This project will seek to strengthen and expand the
services of existing effective private and public agencies.
60.   This sub-component is focusing on the implementation of selected ALPs specifically targeted and
designed to assist the rural economically disadvantaged population and the unemployed. The
sub-component will build on the experience of the MOLSP, which has implemented a US$80 million
Employment Promotion and Services Bank-financed project which was directed, among other things, to
strengthening the evaluation and delivery of ALPs including retraining, small business assistance, and
employment services. The experiences under that project appear to indicate that there are special needs in
rural low income and high unemployment areas that can be addressed by targeted assistance, as can be
noted in the recent MOLSP evaluation of ALPs. The ALPs under this sub-component will also be
coordinated with other ALP services available in the local labor offices funded by government and
complemented through ALPs provided by NGOs and special agencies.
61.   Based on the experience described above, the objective of the sub-component is to assist
economically disadvantaged unemployed in rural communities to expand and use their human capital in
response to economic and labor market opportunities.
- 58 -



62.    Tasks. The sub-component will finance two main tasks: (i) economic and labor market surveys,
and (ii) labor redeployment services based on regional programs of the selected regions.
63.    Economic and Labor Market Surveys (US$0.51 million). The project will develop a mechanism
to provide (a) projections on economic trends with special regard to their impact on labor markets, (b) a
basis for forecasting registered unemployment, following changes in major indicators of enterprise
performance, and (c) better information to individuals to facilitate their career decision making, and
institutions to target investments in human capital. Key activities will include: (i) designing, (ii) pilot
testing, and (iii) implementing regular surveys in up to seven voivodships. The surveys will be based on
adaptation of similar techniques which have been used successfully in several developed and transition
economies. The sub-component will finance technical assistance and a limited provision of goods.
64.    The first activity will consist of designing a short term labor market survey by reviewing the
methodology and the results of similar surveys in other countries (e.g. Sweden, Hungary) and making site
visits, developing a general methodology for voivodship surveys including preparing the survey instrument,
the sampling techniques, the technical procedures for data collection, the interviewer selection and training,
the data processing, the data analysis, the information presentation and dissemination. The survey will
include, but will not be limited to, information on the following data from firms: (i) capacity utilization,
cause for under-utilization, plans to increase investment and capacity, orders for goods and services, net
sales, financial and property status, general opinions on the state of the economy in Poland and selected
voivodships, (ii) labor market movements by firm and branch of the economy, supply and demand in the
labor market, (iii) characteristics of changes in employment, status of hiring special groups such as school
leavers, policy regarding making staff redundant. The methodology and survey instrument will then be
presented to the project's team in MOLPS.
65.    The survey will then be pilot tested by drawing a sample from one voivodship, training the
interviewers, undertaking the survey, analyzing the data, creating a report, presenting the draft report to the
project's team in MOLPS, adjusting survey procedures on the basis of results of the pilot test and the
review of the project's team in MOLPS.
66.    Finally, regular semi-annual labor market surveys will be undertaken in the targeted voivodships
and the findings disseminated, by drawing a sample in the participating voivodships, training the
interviewers, completing the surveys, completing the data input and analysis, developing semi-annual
reports for each voivodship, presenting data to users in a public forum in each voivodship.
67.    Labor Redeployment Services (US$47.15 million). The project will finance a limited amount of
technical assistance and goods for the project team in the MOLPS. The Redeployment Fund will finance a
broad range of demand-driven "labor services", following criteria agreed with the Bank and in compliance
with programs decided by the regional self-governments. The "menu" of labor services will include:
specialized employment services, on-job and institutional training, support to temporary community
employment, small business assistance services, small business incubators and local economic development
planning grants, public awareness campaign. Services will be made available to economically
disadvantaged and unemployed citizens in rural communities, through local service providers which will be
selected on a competitive basis. Each community and region will select from the menu of services
depending on their unique needs.
68.    The project will first develop a framework to enable the Marszalek Offices to provide resources to
local labor service providers, so they can organize in-depth labor services for citizens in rural communities.
The project will finance publicity materials to inform self-government officials, citizens and potential
- 59 -



service providers regarding: (i) the availability of funds for labor services, (ii) the contracting procedures,
and (iii) the criteria to obtain and use these funds.
69.   In addition, the project will develop a system to monitor the use of funds, and evaluate the impact
of local labor redeployment services on wages and employment.
70.   Costs. The costs of implementing the sub-component are shown in table 2. They include the
recurrent costs that will be covered by the MOLPS for the personnel in the project team and in the
voivodship labor offices.
Table 2: Budget for the Labor Redeployment Sub-component
Items                Bank Financing   Government  Total Costs
(US$ million)    (US$ million) (US$ million)
Economic and Labor  0.50              0.01         0.51
Market Information
Consulting Services    0.34                        0.34
Training             0.11                           0.11
Goods                0.05             0.01          0.06
Labor Redeployment  22.20             20.95         43.15
Services
Consulting Services  1.68                           1.68
Training             0.21                           0.21
Goods                0.44             0.11          0.55
Labor Redeployment   19.87            20.84        40.71
Fund
Recurrent Costs                       1.18          1.18
Personnel (project team
and voivodship labor
offices)
Total                22.70            22.14         44.84
71.   Expected Outputs. The following are the expected outputs at the end of project's implementation:
(i) economic and labor market information provided to individuals and human capital development
institutions; (ii) job placement rate of human capital development institutions increased as compared to
pre-project time; (iii) lower rates of hidden and open unemployment as compared to pre-project times; (iv)
lower poverty levels; and (v) higher average incomes in participating communities.
72.   Implementation. A project team will be established in the Structural and Regional Policy
Department of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP). The project team will be generally
responsible for oversight, monitoring, and provision of technical assistance to ensure implementation of the
labor market surveys and the labor redeployment services at the voivodship, powiat, and gmina levels. Its
primary functions will be to: (a) facilitate procurement of technical assistance and goods, that will be done
through the PCU; (b) facilitate implementation of the labor market information surveys in all voivodships;
(c) following the criteria agreed with the Bank, develop detailed procedures and a management information
system (MIS) for operating the Redeployment Fund and providing technical assistance to Marszalek
Office, powiat, gmina administrations and service providers; (d) maintain the MIS in cooperation with the
- 60 -



VPIUs, and monitor operation of the Redeployment Fund; (d) provide the PCU with regular financial and
program implementation reports. The RSC will approve the replenishment of revolving LF accounts on a
monthly basis, review and approve local labor services provider contracts between US$35,000 and
US$70,000 (contracts over US$70,000 must be sent to the Bank for review and no-objection).
73.   The project team will consist of a minimum of fourteen full time professional staff, of which seven
in Warsaw (i.e., Coordinator, MIS/Accountant, Legal/Contracts, Small Business, Training/Public Works,
Local Economic Development/Community Works, Surveys Coordinator), with support staff, plus one full
time professional staff extension officer stationed in each of the seven voivodship offices, or Marszalek
Offices. The project will provide financing for ten long term consultant staff (including three of the six
central project team staff, and the seven extension agents), related training, plus short-term technical
consultants who are specialists in different Redeployment Fund program areas (e.g. incubator design, local
economic development planning) under an umbrella technical assistance contract. The project team will be
headed by a full-time senior civil servant.
74.   Implementation of Economic and Labor Market Information Surveys. The surveys will be
carried out a minimum of four times in all seven voivodships during the project's implementation period.
Technical assistance, i.e. local and international consultants and training, will be procured by the project
team through the PCU, and made available to the Marszalek Office administration for implementing the
surveys. In the Marszalek Office, the Labor Market Unit will be the primary agency involved with the
technical assistance firm in implementing the surveys and, along with the RDAs, in using the information
generated from the surveys.
75.   Implementation of the Labor Redeployment Services. The fund will be implemented using
simple standard principles and criteria. The key steps in the Redeployment Fund administration are as
follows:
(a)    The MOLSP, in cooperation with the Marszaleks, establishes the algorithm for allocation of the
Redeployment funds by voivodship, and has this approved by the NSC (only 50 percent of the
Redeployment funds will be allocated in the first year)
(b)    The Marszalek Office assigns necessary staff (4-5 people) to deal with publicity, contracting, and
monitoring of labor service contracts. The project team in the MOLPS assigns an extension officer to each
voivodship and provides orientation and training to the Marszalek Office staff in the operation of the
Redeployment Fund
(c)    Each Voivoda Office opens a project account at the Financial Department of the Voivoda Office
(d)    The project team in the MOLPS authorizes the transfer from the Special Account of an initial
US$250,000 to each Financial Department of the Voivoda Office for the implementation of the
sub-component. The Financial Department of the Voivoda Office transfers this amount to the Marszalek
Office project account based on minimum agreed levels of full-time Marszalek Office staff (e.g. three
people) assigned to operate the Redeployment Fund. The initial allocation of US$250,000 can be increased
up to US$500,000 based on monthly payments to local service providers. Payments to service providers
will be made by the Marszalek Office on the basis of contracts signed by the Marszalek Office and
endorsed by the MOLPS project team
(e)    The Marszalek Offices provide publicity to community leaders and potential service providers on
the availability of the Redeployment Fund, and ask powiats (in cooperation with gminas) to submit general
- 61 -



indications of interest in the use of the Redeployment Fund over the next 12 months (e.g. type of programs,
approximate number of people to be served). These proposals will not contain budget estimates as local
officials will not be aware of detailed financing arrangements. The Marszalek Office summarizes these
indications of interest and submits them to the RSC for review and endorsement to ensure consistency of
the proposed programs with regional self-government priorities
(f)    The Marszalek Office, in cooperation with powiat labor offices, will initiate procurement following
Polish Public Procurement Law, to identify service providers (standard public tender notices and sample
contracts, which are contained in the operational manual to be agreed during project negotiations, will be
provided to potential service providers to guide them in developing proposals)
(g)    The Marszalek Office, in consultation with the extension officer, negotiates and executes contracts
with service providers
(h)    The Marszalek Office authorizes agreed advance payments to service providers which initiate
services, report and invoice the Marszalek Office on a monthly basis for services provided. The Marszalek
Office, in cooperation with powiat labor office and the extension agent, monitors contract implementation
(i)    The Marszalek Office provides standard data on each contract (e.g. type of service, service
provider, line item costs, number and type of clients served) to the project team in the MOLPS. The project
team will develop a contract monitoring and evaluation system and database to track contracts with service
providers.
(j)    The Marszalek Office creates a statement of expenses each month, based on invoices paid to
service providers, and submits requests for replenishment of the project account at the Financial
Department of the Voivoda Office to the PCU with copy to the project team in the MOLPS.
76.    Methodology for Identifying Sub-projects. The Redeployment Funds will be available in rural
and urban/rural gminas in the voivodships covered by the RDP. Allocations of funds by voivodship will be
based on an algorithm developed by the MOLSP, in cooperation with the Marszalek Offices, and agreed
with the NSC and the Bank. There will not be any allocation of funds by powiat or gmina within
voivodships, as use of resources will be by demand and need.
77.    Labor redeployment services will be provided to individual citizens through local service providers
selected by public tendering. Eligible individuals include those who are: (a) youth living in the immediate
household of individuals defined under (b), individuals who the Social Welfare or Labor Offices define as
economically disadvantaged, threatened with poverty, needing assistance to upgrade skills, employment,
and/or business opportunities; and (b) individuals who are formally registered as unemployed, have been
served notice that they are going to be released from employment within 90 days, and/or whose sole source
of income is an agricultural plot with three or less counted hectares.
78.    The Redeployment Fund is demand-driven, there is no specific allocation of resources by the
Redeployment Program at the voivodship level. However, gminas and powiats will develop a general plan
for use of the services to be presented to the Marszalek Office and endorsed by the RSC, before
solicitations for individual service provider contracts are begun and related contracts signed by the
Marszalek Office for services. However, the maximum amount of the Redeployment Fund that can be used
in each voivodship is 20 percent for temporary community services.
79.   The operational manual contains eligibility criteria for services, service providers and costs to be
- 62 -



financed under the Redeployment Fund.
80.   Flow of Funds. Project funds will flow to the National Bank of Poland into a Special Account
registered with the MOF. For accounting purposes, this account will have a subsidiary special category for
the Labor Fund, which will reflect the Loan Agreement Schedule of Expenditures. The PCU will take
administrative and fiscal responsibility for project financial and progress reporting, based on input from the
project team in the MOLPS.
81.   Funds for delivery of local labor services financed from the Redeployment Fund will go directly
from the Special Account to a project account at the Financial Department of the Voivoda Office, based on
the authorization of the project team in the MOLPS. It is anticipated that Redeployment Fund allocation by
voivodship will be determined based on an algorithm (e.g. levels of unemployment, population, etc.)
developed by the MOLSP in cooperation with the Marszalek Offices, and will be used to allocate the initial
50 percent of the Redeployment Funds to the voivodships during the first year. The Redeployment Fund at
the voivodship level will be replenished on a monthly basis based on payments made during that month to
local service providers which have signed contracts with the Marszalek Office. Requests for replenishment
of voivodship Redeployment Funds will be routed through the PCU.
82.    Disbursement. The loan will finance 100 percent of relevant technical assistance, 100 percent of
goods (excluding customs and VAT), and 49 percent of labor services delivered by the Redeployment
Fund.
Sub-Component B-2: Education (US$24.67 million).
83.   Sub-component Objective. A key component in the effort to attract new businesses in rural areas
is the implementation of a comprehensive program for the development of a strong education and training
system, capable of providing graduates with the level of knowledge, skills and capacity to learn required by
a modern market economy. The overall objective of the education sub-component is to improve the
efficiency of the education system and the quality of graduates from school education in target gminas by:
(i) enhancing the quality of teaching in rural primary schools and gymnasia; and (ii) improving the
utilization of educational resources.
84.   Tasks. The education sub-component will finance five major activities: (i) a program for
improving the quality of teaching in primary schools and gymnasia in target areas through training; (ii) a
program for improving the quality of school equipment; (iii) a program for supporting the introduction of
computers for educational purposes in rural gminas; (iv) a program for improving school facilities, and
education efficiency, through activities leading to the consolidation of the school network; and (v) support
to project dissemination, implementation, and monitoring.
85.   The implementation of this sub-component will consist of activities that will involve primary
schools and gymnasia in a sub-set of the rural gminas covered by the project. Gminas participating in the
program will be selected based on their capacity to conduct an assessment of the current situation of their
education system, and to prepare a viable proposal to address the main problems and challenges identified
during the assessment. It is expected that the assessment and proposals prepared by these gminas will serve
as examples of good practices to be used in subsequent similar projects.
86.   Program for Improving the Quality of Teaching through Teacher Training (US$5.97 million)
In order to improve teaching and learning in primary schools the project will support the introduction of
new methods of teaching different subjects in an integrated manner. This will be done through: (i) a training
- 63 -



program for teachers in teaching methods and classroom management techniques appropriate for integrated
and multigrade teaching; (ii) a training program for school directors on school supervision, whole-school
planning, school leadership, community participation and mobilization, and education evaluation and
assessment.
87.   The integrated methods of teaching will aim at developing critical thinking skills in graduates from
gymnasium, therefore preparing them for the crucial decisions concerning their future education and
profession. This will significantly affect the composition of the rural labor force in the years to come by
preparing graduates to labor market requirements, and contributing to the diversification of their skills.
88.   The training programs for teachers and school directors will be implemented in two sets of
four-week courses. The courses will involve both classroom as well as practical/hands-on activities. The
training program will be delivered by specialized local training institutions or NGOs, on the basis of
programs approved by local education authorities in collaboration with the Ministry of National Education
(MONE).
89.    Program for Improving the Quality of School Equipment (US$4.39 million). The project will
make funds available to the participating rural gminas to support the work of the newly trained teachers
with educational materials, that will help them put into practice what they have learned.
90.    Program for Supporting the Introduction of Computers for Instructional Purposes in Rural
Gminas (US$4.07 million). This program will support an already existing program that finances the
purchase of computers for schools, and will consist of: (i) a training program for teachers in information
technology; (ii) establishment of a national internet based educational resource center; and (iii) the purchase
of computer software. The teacher training program will be organized through sets of training sessions on
how to use computers as a support to teaching.
91.    Program for Improving School Facilities and Education Efficiency (US$9.97 million). In order
to improve the allocation of resources some rural gminas will have to consolidate their current primary
school network. To support this effort, the project will finance the rehabilitation, upgrading and
refurbishing of some 80 primary schools, selected on the basis of accessibility, crowdedness and school
infrastructure suitability to accommodate the creation of new gymnasia. The project will also support
activities facilitating school consolidation, i.e. improvements in the school transportation system.
92.    Support to project dissemination, implementation, and monitoring (US$0.27 million). To
support the work of the project team in the MONE and the VPIUs, the project will finance eight local
consultants. During the first two years of implementation, it is planned that seven consultants will be
located in each of the VPIUs, and one Managing Consultant will be assigned to the project team in the
MONE. The consultants in the VPIU will report to the Managing Consultant. The general guidance for the
Managing Consultant will be provided by the project coordinator designated by the MONE. The project
will also finance training on project management and procurement for project team members in the MONE
and for VPIU staff members responsible for the education component.
93.    Costs. The total estimated costs of implementing the activities described above are US$24.67
million as described in the table below:
Table 3: Budget for the Education sub-component
- 64 -



Items                      Bank         Government  Self-Governm  Total Costs (US$
Financing   (US$ million)  ent (US$     million)
(US$                      million)
million)
Program for Improving the   3.70                      2.27          5.97
Quality of Teaching through
Teacher Training (training)
Program for Improving the   2.59                      1.80          4.39
Quality of School Equipment
(educational material)
Program for Supporting the  2.60        0.17          1.30          4.07
Introduction of Computers
Information Technology      1.50                      1.00          2.50
Training
Resource Center            0.50         0.17                        0.67
Software                   0.60                       0.30          0.90
Program for Improving      4.19                       5.78          9.97
School Facilities and
Education Efficiency
School Rehabilitation      3.09                       4.27          7.36
School Transportation       1.10                      1.51          2.61
Project Implementation     0.22         0.05                        0.27
(project dissemination,
implementation and
monitoring)
TOTAL                       13.30       0.22          11.15         24.67
94.   Expected Output. By the end of project's implementation, the targeted gminas will have: (i) better
educated graduates from compulsory education (primary school and gymnasium), who have the capacity to
actively participate in the creation and development of a dynamic private sector in rural areas, and who
have life-long-learning skills required by the democratization of the Polish society and the modernization of
its economy; and (ii) an efficiently run public education system. The project will have trained
approximately twelve thousand teachers and eight hundred school directors in approximately 320 rural
gminas. It is expected that 800 primary schools and gymnasia will benefit from the program for improving
the quality of school equipment. The program of training teachers in information technology will benefit
approximately five thousand teachers working in primary schools and gymnasia in the target rural gminas,
and software will be financed for approximately 530 rural schools. The project will finance the
rehabilitation, upgrading and refurbishing of some 80 selected primary schools, in approximately 60
communities.
95.   Implementation. Three different levels of government will be involved in the implementation of the
project.
96.    National Level. A project team will be established in the Ministry of National Education (MONE).
It will be responsible for defining technical criteria and standards for training programs, instructional mate
rials, educational software, internet based education resource center, school rehabilitation and school
- 65 -



transportation to be financed under the project. The MONE will be responsible for preparing a menu of
options to guide gminas in the preparation of their proposals. Using information provided by regional
authorities, the MONE will conduct periodic assessment of the implementation of the project, and
disseminate best practices. The MONE will have a direct involvement in the development of the internet
site used for distance education. Specifically, the MONE will be responsible for contracting out the
development of the site and the implementation of the program based on TOR agreed with the Bank. The
project team in the MONE will consist of 5-7 representatives of departments responsible for the subject
areas supported by the RDP Education component. The team will be coordinated by a senior civil servant
designated by the MONE. The Undersecretary of State appointed by the Minister of National Education
will be responsible for overall overseeing of its activities. Since the project team members will continue
their current duties, and, therefore, will not be able to work exclusively on a full time basis on the activities
required to implement the education component of the RDP, the project will provide financing for eight
long term local consultants. Seven will be assigned to each of the voivodships participating in the first two
years of the RDP implementation, and one Managing Consultant will be assigned to the project team in the
MONE. Based on the needs, the consultants will share their time between a support to the VPIUs and an
assistance to the MONE in implementing and monitoring the project. The project will also provide the
necessary training to the staff in the project team in the MONE and for the VPIU staff members
responsible for the education component. All consultants will be hired under one umbrella technical
assistance contract. The estimated total cost of consultant services is US$270,000.
97.    Regional Level. The Marszalek's Office through the VPIUs in close collaboration with the office
of the Kurator will be responsible for (i) disseminating the program, providing technical assistance to
gminas, supporting gminas in announcing and evaluating tenders, and monitoring the implementation of the
project to ensure that all eligible gminas are participating in it; (ii) coordinating the implementation of the
training program for teachers, school directors and information technology specialists; and (iii)
coordinating the provision of education materials and school equipment to rural schools. Specifically, this
will include the preparation of bid, evaluation of bid, and issuing of payment orders. Monitoring
information should be shared with the MONE to facilitate the national evaluation of the project. In order to
prepare the dissemination program, VPIUs responsible for managing the project will work in coordination
with the MONE. The RSC will be responsible for evaluating the proposals submitted by gminas. As a
precondition to the submission of proposals, gminas will be asked to present a school network plan
approved by the gmina council and cleared by the Kurator's office. Project proposals presented by gminas
will be required to be consistent with regional development policies and priorities. Joint proposals presented
by two or more gminas will receive preferential consideration during the evaluation process in the form of
extra points.
98.    Local Level. Gminas will be responsible for preparing, in consultation with the local community,
proposals for training teachers, school directors and information technology specialists, and for the
provision of education materials and school equipment. Once the proposal is approved by the RSC, gminas
will be responsible for facilitating its implementation. It is expected that for the implementation of school
rehabilitation and school consolidation, gminas will be directly involved in conducting tenders and signing
contracts. In all other cases, VPIUs will be responsible for procurement, in order to take advantage of
economies of scale (teacher training for example) and to promote collaboration among gminas.
99.    The National Steering Committee in consultation with the project team in the MONE will be
responsible for the initial fund allocation to each voivodship. This allocation will be done based on two
main indicators: (i) an index of resource utilization at the school level estimated using the student teacher
ratio per school; and (ii) an index of overcrowding estimated by using the average square meter of school
facilities per student age population.
- 66 -



100.   The operational manual will provide a general framework for establishing which activities are
eligible for financing, and the technical criteria for the implementation of the activities. Within this
framework the implementation of activities will be done at the local level by local entities such as NGOs,
teacher training institutes or other private contractors, to ensure that they respond to the needs of the target
population and to help develop local capacity and help generate employment.
101.   To effectively reach the target population, this sub-component will be implemented under the direct
supervision of the participating gminas. Foundations, NGOs or local educational institutions will be
involved in the direct execution of project activities. The implementing institutions will be asked to
demonstrate professional expertise in the field, and show understanding of the local community. This will
help ensure that the implemented activities are of high technical quality and respond to the needs of local
communities.
102.   Methodology for Identifying Sub-projects. Investments at the gmina level will be identified
through a competitive process where each of the eligible gminas will be invited to present proposals for
co-financing. Each proposal will be evaluated by the RSC against a set of predefined criteria, and those
approved will be financed as feasible from loan proceeds and matching funds.
103.  To be considered for financing, each education proposal has to reflect a priority for the community,
as shown by local council decisions, the results of any public hearings or beneficiary surveys, and must be
in accordance with the broader, comprehensive program of regional development.
104.  In addition to providing evidence of community support, gminas desiring investments to
consolidate the school network, will be required to conduct: (i) a social assessment of the school
consolidation; and (ii) an economic assessment of different school consolidation options.
105.  In order to provide all eligible gminas with the opportunity to prepare good proposals, the project
will conduct a promotion campaign aimed at informing local policy makers, administrators and
communities about the project. Parallel to this, the project will provide technical assistant to target gminas
to equip them with skills and techniques required for conducting needs assessment and for the preparation
of proposals. Also, gminas will receive technical assistance to help them develop capacity to supervise the
implementation of sub-projects.
106.   Flow of Funds. The flow of funds will follow the scheme presented above for the whole project.
107.  Co-Financing. Funding to support the activities described under the education sub-component will
be provided by the project in the form of grants to gminas. However, participating gminas will be required
to co-finance all education investments contemplated in this sub-component. It is expected that by doing so,
the gminas will have full ownership and commitment to both the objectives and the implementation strategy
of the project. Specifically, the project will use a system of matching grants to finance these activities.
Gminas, with the support of the MONE, will be required to co-finance each activity in the following
proportion: (i) in the case of school consolidation, the project will finance up to a maximum of 42 percent
of total cost; (ii) for training of teachers, school directors, and information technology specialists, the
project will finance up to a maximum of 62 percent of project cost, and for the provision of instructional
materials and school equipment, the project will finance up to a maximum of 59 percent of project cost;
(iii) for computer software, the project will finance up to a maximum of 67 percent of total cost; (iv) for the
establishment of the internet based education resource center, the project will finance up to 75 percent of
total cost; and (v) for the support of project implementation, the project will finance up to a maximum of
- 67 -



81 percent of total cost.
Sub-Component B-3: Institution Building in Local and Regional Administrations (US$12.62 million).
108.   Sub-component Objectives. The overall objective of this sub-component is to increase the level of
efficiency and effectiveness in eligible units of local and regional administration (gminas, powiats and
voivodships) within the voivodships covered by the RDP, through institutional development, training
programs and capacity building measures, and thereby improve the conditions for the creation of non-farm
employment in rural areas. An efficient public administration will improve the provision of goods and
services to the public and the private sectors, thus facilitating economic activities. Most importantly, the
first impulse to overcome the economic stagnation and social apathy can come only in many cases from the
local public administration.
109.   Tasks. The project will finance institutional development programs (IDPs) in selected pilot units to
develop a framework for improving the general efficiency of local administrations, including management
of human and financial resources, and provide TA aiming at improving the quality of services delivered by
local officials and public servants, and build capacity for implementing EU rules and regulations. In
addition, training will be provided to selected employees of self-government administrations operating in
administrative units not benefiting from the IDPs. The training provided will place special emphasis on
public management and administrative services important for the successful implementation of RDP and its
project components. Finally, the project will finance capacity building efforts and studies which will
facilitate the. link between the IDPs and the training programs, foster the coordination with other RDP
components, and provide quality control as well as monitoring and evaluation services.
110.  Institutional development programs, training and capacity building are crucial to the success of a
project aiming at fostering the growth of the private sector. A modern public administration provides
predictable government action, reliable institutional frameworks and regulatory certainty, thus helping the
efficient functioning of the market economy. The better the capacity of the state and self-government
institutions, the better the opportunity for the market economy to work. In addition, public administration
assists market economy by producing sound policies and delivering critical public goods and services in a
cost-effective manner. An efficient public administration is most important for rural areas which are
confronted with the issue of hidden unemployment in agriculture, and urgently require the creation of
non-farming jobs.
111.   Training enables the better use of human resources. It helps people properly discharge the
requirements of their jobs and raises the potential of people to do other, more demanding jobs. In doing so,
training supports organizations and institutions to achieve their objectives. Training can contribute to
change an institution's 'culture,' i.e. the core beliefs, values and attitudes of the employees, thus effecting
the success of the institution. Hence training must be seen as part of the human resource development
strategy, which is in turn part of the strategy for organizational and institutional development. In this
project, the link between institutional development and training will receive special attention in selected
pilot areas.
112.   The decentralization of public services and finances to powiats and voivodships is placing great
demands on public administrators. There are new functions to administer and new processes to apply.
There is the need to coordinate the work among self-governments at different levels, and between
self-governments and the state administration in fields like regional development. Therefore, the state of
preparedness of the public administration at each level becomes crucial for the success of the reform. In
this sense, the IDPs, the training programs and the capacity building efforts will contribute to the project's
- 68 -



overall objective of helping Poland implement the decentralization process. Moreover, this sub-component
will contribute to build the capacity of the local and regional administrators to implement EU regulations
and rules, thus helping Poland to absorb EU pre-accession and structural funds.
113.   This sub-component will provide in parallel three complementary activities:
(a)    Institutional Development Programs (IDPs), focusing on the overall institutional and human
resources development of the public administration in a few selected pilot units at voivodship, powiat and
gmina levels;
(b)    Training Programs, focusing on key generic and project specific issues, offered to all regional and
local administrative units in the project areas; and
(c)    A Capacity Building Program supporting MIAPA in linking IDPs and training activities, including
surveys and studies.
114.  Institutional Development Programs (IDPs) (US$5.12 million). These programs will be
implemented in two voivodships, two to four powiats and about fifteen gminas. The main criterion used in
the selection of the pilot units is their willingness and capacity to quickly improve their performance.
115.   The IDPs will be divided in two stages. During the first six to nine months (stage 1), an
organizational and operational analysis of the pilot units and the design of new institutional arrangements
will be conducted. The analysis will consist of an in-depth assessment of selective organizational and
operational issues in each pilot unit, focusing on departmental structure and tasks, procedures, staffing,
availability and quality of equipment, MIS, division of labor. The result of this analysis will help design
new institutional arrangements to be achieved during stage 11.
116.  During the following two years (stage 11), hand-on assistance will be provided to implement the
suggested organizational changes, design and deliver training packages. As part of the new organizational
structure, new procedures will be drafted, job profiles and task descriptions for key personnel and
departments will be drafted, vacancies will be advertised, the performance assessment of the personnel will
be undertaken, and new equipment and software will be provided.
117.   The success of the IDPs will crucially depend on the commitment of the elected officials and key
public servants to work on the difficult tasks of implementing the institutional improvements. This sense of
ownership needs to be developed during stage I (organizational analysis and design of new institutional
arrangements), and maintained during the whole implementation of the IDPs.
118.  The IDPs, conducted in a limited number of pilot units, will serve as key reference case for the
training programs described below. The lessons learned in the pilot units will guide the selection of trainees,
the choice of training subjects and the methodology of the training to be provided to all administrative units
operating in the project areas.
119.  Training Programs (US$5.10 million). All other administrative units not selected for pilot
operations will be offered training in two sets of subjects: (i) subjects related to the efficiency of public
administration at regional and local levels, and (ii) subjects related to the efficient implementation of RDP
components. The project will provide additional funds to ensure the wide use and application of the new or
updated skills obtained through training, i.e., financing of selected hard and software, and the promotion
and dissemination of relevant experiences and best practices, aimed at developing awareness of the
- 69 -



programs goals among citizens. A menu of options linking the different training topics and the suggested
target groups can be found in the operational manual.
120.   Subiects Related to the Efficiency of Public Administration. This training will cover basic
knowledge in public management, project cycle management, financial management, EU accession
requirements, good governance, etc.
121.   Training in public management will be provided to councilors and board members. With the
reform, decision-makers of the newly created self-government units (powiats and voivodships) face new
administrative responsibilities, often without having the necessary administrative and managerial skills.
Among the most important challenges facing local and regional governments are the satisfaction of
communal needs with limited financial resources; the design and implementation of local and regional
development strategies and programs; and effectively accessing and utilizing aid funds from external
donors.
122.   Public officials will also receive training in project management. Councilors and board members
will need to develop a general understanding of how to prioritize, assess and implement projects.
123.   The training module addressing issues related to financial management will focus on topics such
as: improving public services in the context of limited resources; options for increasing revenues,
decreasing expenditures, and optimizing the combination of different resources (local revenues, central
subsidies, external resources and borrowed funds). This training will be addressed to board members as
well as members of the financial committee, and employees of self-government administrations at higher
and medium levels.
124.   Poland's accession to the EU calls for the creation of EU compatible structures. The introduction
of the 'Law on the Three-level Territorial Division' has been a major step in this direction. A successful
implementation of this law involves however the full understanding of the implications of (future) EU
accession on public services, and related issues such as transparency of budget and tender processes.
Special attention will be given to this topic.
125.   Wherever relevant, training will stress the need and advantages of good governance, i.e. avoiding
conflicts-of-interest, clear division of responsibilities between the politically appointed and the employees,
as well as the cost of and the need to abate corruption.
126.   Subiects Related to the Efficient Implementation of RDP Components. The main focus of training
will be on specific issues related to public services relevant for private sector development, active labor
market measures, rural education, as well as infrastructure. In these priority sectors, decision makers,
senior officers and additional stakeholders will receive training.
127.   Public Administration can play a role in facilitatingprivate sector development by: (i) removing
bottle-necks, and generally improving the business environment; (ii) promoting gminas, powiats and
voivodships for inward investment; (iii) directly providing services, such as information and business space
at competitive conditions. The training program focusing on private sector issues will help operationalize
the topics: (a) provide the regulatory framework that allows markets to work, (b) invest in key
infrastructure to lower private costs of production, (c) use the private sector in financing and managing
public infrastructure, (d) carry out regional and local promotional efforts, and (e) improve delivery and
efficiency of government-produced services of importance to the private sector (e.g. one-stop offices for
business clients).
- 70 -



128.  The main players in implementing active labor programs are the labor offices, the Redeployment
Fund and the private, public and NGO service providers recruited by the Redeployment Fund and the labor
offices. Despite the need to delegate direct measures to designated service providers, there is a role for
Public Administration in: (i) gathering and distributing labor market information; (ii) assessing the work of
the service providers; and (iii) creating a favorable business climate. The 'Law on the Three-level
Territorial Division' assigns a specific role in counteracting unemployment to powiats and voivodship
self-governments. The training to be provided to managers and senior employees in regional and district
labor offices will focus on disseminating best practices and the results of evaluation reports on previous
and ongoing labor programs. As part of the training process managers and senior employees should be
familiarized with: (a) the instruments for the identification and analysis of employment problems at local
and regional levels including databases and in-depth surveys; (b) the principles of active labor market
policies including targeting, localization, prevention, mentoring, outreach, integration and collaboration and
employer involvement; (c) the models of decentralized active labor market policy including regionalized
systems and integrated systems; (d) the current trends in active labor market policy including autonomy in
budget allocation and social partnership; and (e) the implementation of active labor market programs.
129.  Although significant amounts are spent on education at the national level, rural areas are
under-serviced in the area of human capital development. Links between education and the economy are
important; they complement and reinforce the fundamental contribution of education to individual and
social development. Economic activity depends to a growing extent on peoples' knowledge, skills and
capacity to learn continuously. Thus investment in education is important for economic growth and national
competitiveness. With the education and administrative reforms, regional and local self-governments are
responsible for both education management and finance at their respective statutory levels - early childhood
and primary education for gminas, secondary education for powiats, and tertiary education for voivodships
- and must primarily finance expenditures from their own revenues. Training under this component will
focus on assisting the education offices in the gmina and powiat administrations to improve management of
the limited budget resources mainly through increasing the efficiency of public schools.
130.  In the physical infrastructure sector, sorting out the planning, financial, operating and
maintenance responsibilities at the various levels of government and the private sector will be necessary for
effective management of infrastructure stocks and new investments, including the efficient use of local,
national and international funds. Possible training topics include: (i) at the voivodship level, the planning of
regional infrastructure needs, and monitoring and enforcing national standards on municipal service
facilities, and (ii) at the powiat gmina level, engineering economy, the planning of current and future needs
of physical infrastructure, the operation and maintenance of roads, service facilities and buildings, and
basic rules for public consultation and social assessment methods.
131.  Improving the environment by complying with environmental national and EU regulations is
important for all regions in Poland, and not only for those that have opted to invest in tourism. Issues of
environmental protection will be addressed in all training sessions where potentially relevant, i.e. project
cycle management, infrastructure management, regional development and even private sector development.
132.  Training Methodology. The range of possible training methods to be considered under this
sub-component includes training on-the-job, in-house-training, workshops, computer-based training, and
distance learning. The choice of a specific method will depend on the training subject and participants.
133.   Target Groups. The training activities will target different groups including officers, board
members and councilors at the gmina, powiat and voivodship levels. The training will therefore need to be
- 71 -



flexible and adapt to the needs of the trainees.
134.  Specific training focusing on the transfer of technical skills should in principle be addressed to
public servants at the high and intermediary levels. Although management and organization in general do
not concern elected councilors, it is nevertheless necessary to create in this group a level of understanding
on managerial issues, since approval from them is required for any organizational development (e.g.
introduction of a new structure). Board members need training in managerial skills. This training should
however have a practical and applicable character, with a minimum of lectures and a maximum of role
plays and case-studies. The accepted training method should reflect the different educational levels,
background and different professional experiences of this target group. A special training program is
envisaged for secretaries of gminas, powiats and voivodships, since their responsibilities usually include
important aspects of office organization.
135.  Capacity Building and Studies (US$2.40 million). The institutional development and training
programs included in the RDP are ambitious and innovative, as well as complex. Implementation of the two
programs therefore calls for careful coordination and intensive monitoring. Optimum results cannot be
ensured without systematic interaction between the service providers of the institutional development and
training programs, and without continuous adaptation of the two programs in view of the lessons learned.
In order to ensure that in changing circumstances which currently cannot be foreseen, the service providers
of the IDPs and training programs will properly implement the project, active guidance and continuous
support are needed. This kind of support and guidance would naturally be expected from the Ministry of
Interior and Public Administration (MIAPA). In order to make MIAPA capable of performing this role, it
is necessary to: (i) strengthen human resources within MIAPA, and (ii) create organizational structures for
the effective and sustainable coordination and support of activities aimed at developing local and regional
administration especially in rural areas. Accordingly, the Capacity Building program is designed to assist
MIAPA in (i) efficiently co-ordinating the IDPs and training programs; (ii) disseminating the
accomplishments of the IDPs; and (iii) providing the tools and means to support the IDPs in the local and
regional administration.
136.  Studies will be financed to evaluate the success of the sub-component. The evaluation of the IDP
will be done through a comprehensive evaluation audit that will assess the degree of institutional
development achieved at the end of the project against the benchmarks developed during stage I of the IDP.
The training programs will be evaluated using three tools: (i) periodic beneficiaries assessments, in the form
of participants reactions recorded by questionnaires and rating scales; (ii) a client survey run towards the
end-of project implementation; and (iii) the quantitative information collected in the MIS during the life of
the project, such as average training hours per employee, and training costs per participant hour. In
addition, the project will finance a study on distance learning.
137.   Flow of Funds. Founds will flow according Polish regulations, i.e. the Law on Public Finance.
138.  Costs. The technical assistance and support provided under the IDP is estimated at US$5.12
million. The cost of the training courses, office equipment and promotion and dissemination campaign
provided in all the participating administrative units will amount to US$5. 10 million. The costs of the
capacity building and studies are estimated at US$2.40 million. The total cost for this sub-component is
estimated at US$12.62 million.
Table 4: Budget for the sub-component on Institution Building in Local and Regional
Administrations
- 72 -



Items                              Bank       Local           Total Costs (US$
Financing  Governments   million)
(US$       (US$ million)
million)
Institutional Development Programs  4.10      1.02            5.12
Technical Assistance               2.60       0.62            3.22
Training                           0.90       0.20             1.10
Office Technology                  0.60       0.20            0.80
Training Programs                  4.00       1.10            5.10
Training                           3.40       0.90            4.30
Office Technology                  0.60       0.20            0.80
Capacity Building and Studies      2.00       0.40            2.40
Technical Assistance               1.00       0.20            1.20
Beneficiary Evaluation             0.20       0.00            0.20
Distance Learning                  0.40       0.10            0.50
Promotion and Dissemination        0.40       0.10            0.50
Total                              110.10     2.52            12.62
139.   Expected Output The expected outcome is a significant contribution to the development of a
framework needed for improving the management of human and financial resources in regional and local
administrations, the provision of training to some 3,000 decisions makers and senior staff in the pilot and
other administrative units for an average of 30 days of training per trainee, and a significantly increased
capacity at the central government level to provide guidance and support to regional and local
administrative units, as well as to monitor and evaluate such support programs.
140.  Three key accomplishments, described below containing both quantitative and qualitative elements,
are proposed as the main evaluation criteria to be used at the end of the project. The accomplishments are
the most significant indicators for a successful implementation of this sub-component. These triggers
(i) A beneficiaries assessment and a client survey conducted towards the end of the project in gminas,
powiats and voivodships participating in the IDP indicates a perceived increase in the efficiency of how
public administration is conducted (i.e. efficient use of available human and financial resources).
(ii) At least 3,000 decision-makers and officers operating at gmina, powiat and voivodship levels will have
received an average of 30 days of training.
(iii) The relevance and quality of the training provided, evaluated through a variety of tools and measures,
will be judged satisfactory.
Project Component 3 - US$ 194.89 million
Component C: Rural Infrastructure (US$194.89 million).
141.  Component Objectives. The development and improvement of infrastructure is regarded as a
prerequisite for stimulating private sector development. Areas with developed infrastructure attract
- 73 -



investors, whereas areas with inadequate infrastructure place a burden of additional costs on potential
investors, who may need to build roads, water supply, waste water collection, access to district heating,
telecommunication, etc., in order to start and operate a new business. The objective of this component is to
improve technical infrastructure in rural areas, in order to stimulate private sector investments, facilitate
the creation of non-farm jobs, improve environmental and health conditions, introduce alternative
organizational and institutional structures for the sustainable delivery of affordable services, introduce
more market oriented approaches in the development and operation of infrastructure networks, thus
contributing to narrow the gap between rural and urban areas in economic development.
142.  Tasks. Within this component, investments will be considered to address the following
infrastructure needs: (i) water supply systems so as to provide reliable water for domestic and commercial
use; (ii) sewage collection and treatment facilities, often in conjunction with water supply systems so as to
complete the cycle of reliable and hygienically acceptable water systems for the benefit of rural enterprises
and the welfare of rural citizens; (iii) solid waste management systems, including collection, treatment, and
disposal facilities in order to fulfill legal, safety and sanitary requirements; (iv) selected rural roads, most
likely for improvements such as local linkages to new motorways and surface hardening in order to provide
all weather access to certain communities. Based on the sub-project proposals which were submitted (see
investment portfolio), the average size of a rural infrastructure investment financed under the RDP is
estimated at US$460,000. About 60 percent of the investments will cost less than US$260,000, and 90
percent less than US$1.3 million.
143.  Investment Portfolio. The process for selecting sub-projects to be financed under this component
follows the criteria described below in the chapter on implementation arrangements. In order to develop a
project pipeline for rapid implementation of the first set of investments, participating self-governments
(gmina, associations of gminas, powiats, voivodships) were invited to send their list of high priority
investment projects to a team of consultants in the form of an application for financial support. Only
investments were considered which were ready for immediate implementation including feasibility studies,
financial and technical documentation and all required permits. The task was organized on a regional level
and supported by the Marszaleks. The voivodship self-government provided funding for two consultants in
each voivodship. In addition, the portfolio preparation was supported by consultants identified and selected
by the Bank, and financed through a Dutch Trust Fund. In April 1999, the consultants presented the
outcome.
144.  The rural infrastructure component will cover all sixteen voivodships. The allocation of funds
between the different voivodships is the responsibility of the NSC which will produce methodology for
allocation of funds. Seven voivodships, i.e. Malopolskie, Podkarpackie, Swietokrzyskie, Lubelskie,
Warminsko-Mazurskie, Kujawsko Pomorskie, and Zachodnio-Pomorskie already have the necessary
capacity to implement RDP. Over 1,000 decision-makers participated in the seminars and were introduced
to the objectives and procedures of the RDP. In total, 2,874 project proposals were submitted, of which
1,051 are ready for immediate implementation for a total investment of US$488.3 million. About 41
percent of this amount (US$202.6 million) is requested from the Bank loan. Based on a primary review of
the proposals undertaken by the Polish consultants, it can be assumed that the proposals are in general
overestimated by 10 to 30 percent. However, the proposals show that local governments identify their main
need for investments in the services of water and waste water, and rural roads (see table 5 and 6). Low
demand is indicated by local government for rural telecommunication (0.8 percent), and eligible energy
projects (1.3 percent). Therefore RDP-finance is limited to investments in the water, waste water, roads and
solid waste sector. Since RDP is demand-driven, the RSCs will review after one year of implementation the
need to add new sub-sectors on the basis of requests from local self-governments. As soon as the local
ARMA offices and the VPIUs are in place the proposals will be screened to check if they meet criteria for
- 74 -



financing.
Table 5: Investment cost in percentage by sector
160 
40- 0
30- . 0     1    R!i
20 -.
100
10-'
160-      
14004,
1 00- 4
80s    B  a                                      -
40.EX
01        0                        0          c 
145.  Training of Technical Staff (US$1.11 million). The main concern is the
optimization of the infrastructure investments in relation to the objectives of employment
generation, economic growth, amelioration of the environment, economy and efficiency.
There are several obstacles to achieving this aim through a program of rural infrastructure
investments largely conceived and designed at the gmina level. These are:
1)    The lack of a tradition of engineering design, which emphasizes rate of return, economies of scale,
location economics and logistics, consideration of operating costs per unit of usage, phasing of investments
in line with projected demand, and constant pursuit of new cheaper technologies to achieve desired goals.
2)     The arbitrary technical standards of design, which increase the costs while yielding little actual
benefit.
3)     The boundaries of the fairly small gminas. If the design of investments is pursued looking only
- 75 -



within the gmina boundaries, important benefits will be lost. Many of the most successful developments in
rural telecommunications, sanitation and pollution control in Poland today involve leagues, federations, or
cooperatives of gninas grouped around physical investment programs. This trend will be accelerated by the
project.
4)     Local politics is a threat to the optimization of rural investments. The best antidote to this threat,
and to all the other obstacles to engineering and economic rationality, is a thorough and pervasive
professionalism of the individuals who must conceive and design the proposed investments.
146.   This professionalism will be sought through training of such individuals in a setting where they will
meet and engage with their counterparts, from other gminas in their voivodship, and gain a practical
understanding of the principles of engineering economy as outlined above. The training will be reinforced
and deepened by inspection visits and project reviews done by carefully recruited experts at the voivodship
level, whose mission will include improving the quality of gmina engineers and accountants by working
together to refine project proposals.
147.   To achieve the objectives described above, a comprehensive training and technical assistance
program in rural infrastructure is proposed under the project. The proposed training program will target
self-government officials and relevant technical staff. This includes mayors, members of gmina councils,
staff of investment departments in gmina offices, and technical staff from utilities and service providers will
be encouraged to participate in such training. The objectives of the training workshops and seminars are: i)
to increase awareness of public sector officials regarding alternative approaches for the delivery of public
services, ii) to increase effectiveness, iii) to improve service quality and level, iv) to reduce cost and subsidy
requirements, and v) to improve affordability. The training program of self-government officials is
presented and financed under the B-3 component.
148.   Training sessions for each of the following sub-sectors which will be supported by the project
(water and sewer, roads, solid waste) will be presented covering various topics in a 2.5 day seminar,
including but not limited to:
(i) Infrastructure finance and development: methods and techniques for planning and financing of
municipal infrastructure including capital investment planning, project preparation and management and
technical and financial feasibility of infrastructure projects and application of appropriate design standards.
(ii) Operations and management practices to improve efficiency of services.
(iii) Case studies on best practices from Poland and other countries in each sector.
149.  It is estimated that the total cost of the proposed training is US$ 1.11 million. This will include
training sessions in the sixteen voivodships in Poland.
150.   Technical Assistance for VPIU Staff and Local Offices of ARMA Staff (US$1.09 million) In
addition to the training program, a technical assistance program for the VPIUs and local offices of ARMA
is proposed. The TA program will provide assistance in projects review, and thereby provide hands-on
transfer of know-how to the VPIUs and local offices of ARMA staff on best practices from Poland and
abroad. Local offices of ARMA staff, with aid from Polish consultants, will review technical proposals
received from gminas, and through this process sharpen the skills of gmina staff regarding project
evaluation, review, and appraisal.
- 76 -



151.  The technical support program is designed to transfer experience from other countries, which have
either undergone similar decentralization of service delivery systems to the local governments, and/or have
a long tradition of delivering services by local governments. Therefore, a modest input from a foreign
consultant will be supplemented by Polish professionals with international experience. It is envisaged that
Polish and international consultants will provide necessary transfer of know-how to the VPIU and local
offices of ARMA staff to ensure long term sustainability of the project.
152.  Local governments in rural areas have limited capacity in identifying and prioritizing their
investment needs. This will require that the VPIUs provide necessary support to the gminas and local
governments in this process. Such assistance will include, but it will not limited to providing: a) support in
writing consultant TORs for specific studies required by the gminas; b) assisting in the procurement
process; c) support in supervision of various program implementation. In providing such assistance, VPIUs
will rely on its own staff as well as its consultants. Estimated total cost for the TA is US$1.09 million, in
addition a workshop for the technical staff in the VPI Us and the local government officials will be
organized and the cost is estimated at US$0.22 million.
153.  Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.21 million). Early monitoring of the implementation and the
evaluation of the project's impact and cost is regarded as a key element for the success of the RDP. In
addition, a comprehensive evaluation study (US$0.21 million) concerning the implementation of the
project, quality of investments, capacity building, environmental and social implications, and economic
impact will be accomplished towards the end of project's implementation. The monitoring activities are
accomplished by the VPIUs and financed under its budget.
Table 7: Budget for the Sub-component on Infrastructure
Items                       Bank          Self-governme Total (US$
Financing     nts (US$      million)
(US$ million) million)
Rural Infrastructure        54.54         122.85         177.39
Investments
Water and Waste Water       27.00         60.10          87.10
Treatment Plants
Roads and Solid Waste       27.54         62.75          90.29
Training Program for        1.11                         1.11
Technical Staff
Workshop for VPIU Staff    0.22                          0.22
and Local Government
Officials
Technical Assistance for    1.09                         1.09
VPIU staff and Local
Government Officials
Evaluation Study            0.21                         0.21
Recurrent Costs (O&M)                     14.87          14.87
Total Costs                _57.17         137.72         194.89
154.   Expected Output. The component will result in (i) investments of about US$177.39 million for
improved and developed rural infrastructure, and (ii) better quality and efficiency of rural infrastructure
services.
- 77 -



155.  Implementation. The rural infrastructure component will be implemented at the regional and local
level. The national administrative structure will be involved in coordinating and monitoring activities. The
implementation scheme reflects the decentralization reform launched on January 1, 1999, which gives
gmina, powiat and voivodship self-government the responsibility for the development of rural infrastructure
as well as of Poland's preparation to absorb EU's SAPARD pre-accession fund.
156.  National Level. A project team will be established in the MARD jointly together with the MOE.
This team will be cooperating at the central level with the PCU, which has the overall coordination function
for the RDP. In addition, the PCU will be responsible for the launching of the RDP, procuring the TA and
training services, and for providing assistance to all level of project management.
157.  Regional Level. The Marszalek's Office through the VPIUs in close collaboration with the RSC
will be responsible for disseminating the program, providing technical assistance and training to gminas,
supporting gminas in announcing and evaluating tenders, and monitoring the implementation of the project
to ensure that all eligible gminas are participating in it. Monitoring information should be shared with the
project team in MARD and MOE to facilitate the national evaluation of the project. Local offices of
ARMA will review the project proposals submitted by local governments according to technical and
institutional requirements as defined in the Operational Manual. The VPIUs will review the project
proposals to check for compliance with regional, social and economic development priorities. ARMA has
no approval power, and after evaluating the proposals, the local offices of ARMA will send the
documentation to the VPIU/RSC with copy to the applicant. To ensure the efficient evaluation of
proposals, by the end of March 2000, the local offices of ARMA will need to have the capacity to assess
the economic, financial, environmental and technical quality of projects, and a financial management
system satisfactory to the Bank. Finally the RSCs will be responsible for projects prioritization taking into
account the above-mentioned criteria. The RSCs will be responsible for project prioritization based on the
broader regional economic development plan. As a precondition to the submission of proposals,
self-governments will be asked to contribute to 30 percent of the total investment costs. Sub-project
proposals will be required to be consistent with regional development policies and priorities, as well as
national sector policies. The principle of economies of scale has to be incorporated in the sub-projects
design. Joint proposals presented by two or more gminas will receive preferential consideration during the
evaluation process.
158.  Local Level. Gminas will be responsible for preparing high priority proposals in consultation with
the local comnmunity and, once approved by the RSC, implementing them. It is expected that gminas will be
directly involved in conducting tenders, signing and supervising contracts. Within this framework, the
implementation of activities will be done at the local level to help develop local capacity and generate
employment. The implementing institutions will be asked to demonstrate professional expertise in the field.
This will help ensure the quality of the investments.
159.  The responsibilities of the various entities involved in the project implementation were confirmed
with the borrower during appraisal, and are summarized in the table 8.
Table 8: Organizations involved in project implementation
- 78 -



Primary        PC    Project   Local    RSC    VPIU    Gmina    WB
Responsibility   U    Team in   Offices
MOE       of
ARMA
Overall project  X
administration
Program        X                                                      X
supervision
(national)
Program        X       X         X
monitoring
(national)
Program                                    X       X
monitoring
(regional)
Sub-project                                        X        X
supervision
Identification                                              X
of sub-projects
Preparation of                                              X
sub-projects
Evaluation of                    X                 X
sub-projects
Selection/appr                             X
oval of
sub-projects
Procurement    X                                   X        X         X
Disbursement                                       X        X         X
Submission of   X                                  X
quarterly
reports
Management    X                                    X
of TA and
Training
160.   Methodology for Selecting Sub-projects. The selection of sub-projects, as detailed in the
- 79 -



Operational Manual, will be accomplished in three phases, including:
Phase A:      Eligibility check
Phase B:      Quality review
Phase C:      Project prioritizing
161.   Phase A, Eligibility Check. The proposals have to meet the following eligibility criteria: (i) the
infrastructure investment is located in an area targeted by the RDP; (ii) the financing is limited to
construction, rehabilitation, replacement, improvement or expansion of service assets in water supply
systems, sewage collection and treatment, solid waste management systems and rural roads; (iii) the
proposal is in compliance with the objectives of the RDP; (iv) the proposal is submitted by an eligible
applicant (gmina, association of gminas, powiat); (v) the self-government contributes a minimum of 30
percent of the total investment of which 10 percent should be financed by a upfront contribution from the
users.
162.   The proposals will need to be accompanied by a decision of the respective local government
council, and for voivodship proposals of the Sejmik. The local offices of ARMA and VPIUs will review the
proposals, and will reject only those that clearly fall outside the project eligibility criteria. The VPIU will
request the beneficiaries to provide additional information if necessary. All eligible projects which are ready
for implementation - including the full financial and technical documentation as well as all required permits
- will enter the project pipeline.
163.   Phase B, Quality Review. Beneficiaries will be encouraged to secure funding from sources like the
EU pre-accession funds (SAPARD and Phare), the National and Regional Environmental Protection Funds,
the EcoFund, and various other national and regional funds, before submission of projects proposals; or at
least by the time of project prioritization. The RSC will only approve projects with fully secured financing.
Investment proposals will be reviewed by the local offices of ARMA against technical, financial, and
institutional requirements:
(i) Community support. Infrastructure investments considered here will reflect a high priority of the
community, as evidenced by local council decisions, the results of any public hearings or beneficiary
surveys, and will be in accordance with a broader, comprehensive program of regional development. Public
hearings are especially required for new investments in waste water treatment and landfills. Gminas and
their utilities should exercise full ownership of the sub-project, by making independent investment choices
and taking responsibility for sub-project success and failure.
(ii) Technical and environmental standards. Investments should comply with Polish and EU technical and
environmental standards and regulations. In addition, the investments should be supported by appropriate
feasibility studies, of a depth that is in line with the sub-project's size and complexity, demonstrating that
the sub-project meets a prudently assessed demand in a cost-efficient way. If a least cost solution is not
selected, adequate justification must be provided. The investments should be determined primarily on the
basis of regional and local needs, and fit within EU and national sector policies.
(iii) Financial feasibility. Investments should be evaluated based on an appropriate financial analysis.
Alternative designs and solutions should be considered, with cost effective use of scarce financial resources
and employment generating efficiency as guiding principles for selection. Capacity to finance adequate
ongoing operations and maintenance must be demonstrated. Investments should generate an Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) higher than 10 percent. Models for the economic and financial analysis of
rural infrastructure investments were developed for the RDP, financed by the British Know How Fund.
- 80 -



Training for the users of the manuals will be provided in the early stage of implementation.
(iv) Tariffs. For revenue generating infrastructure services, a tariff will be applied to recover the costs of
full O&M and debt service, as well as to include the depreciation of the new investment, and to protect
against the effect of inflation. Where the infrastructure investment is tied to tariff increases for utility
services, the applicant must demonstrate a commitment and ability to increase the tariff to the required
level. In the case that the cost recovery requirement may result in a tariff which is not affordable, the gmina
will have the option to start with a tariff covering the cost of full O&M and debt service, and gradually
introduce a "full cost recovery" tariff over a period of 5 years. This exception from the full cost recovery
principle is limited to sewerage and waste water treatment investments. The project should not lead to tariff
increases of such scale as to make utility services unaffordable, taking into account other local services and
living costs. Gminas are not expected to conduct comprehensive willingness-to-pay studies. However, it is
required that the Gmina indicates the social impacts of the investment and how the affordability of the tariff
is assessed .
(v) Institutional capacity and appropriateness of service delivery organizations. The beneficiary should be
financially viable and should have sufficient institutional capacity and appropriate structure in place to
ensure sustainable operation and maintenance (O&M) of project investments. The assessment of the
institutional capacity is the responsibility of the local offices of ARMA.
(vi) Readiness. Sub-projects should start with a clear and complete financing plan, including evidence that
any co-financing proposed has or will be secured on time. Sub-projects can be approved only when all
necessary permits (i.e. planning, construction, environment) and required legal documents (i.e. title on land)
are available.
164.   Based on the criteria described, the local offices of ARMA will review project proposals and
submit recommendations to the VPIUs, that in turn will assess the quality of the sub-projects proposals in
line with the regional development objectives and submit the evaluation to the RSCs.
165.   Phase C, Project Prioritization. The RSC established a prioritized list of sub-projects for RDP
financing which was presented and discussed during appraisal. The following criteria were used by the
RSC for the ranking: (i) importance for the broader regional economic development plan; (ii) potential for
direct and indirect job creation; (iii) joint proposal among gminas which reflects the principle of economy
of scale in project design; (iv) contribution of self-government to investment cost.
166.   The process of project prioritization and funding commitment will be carried out once or twice per
year, taking into account the amount of time required for identifying and preparing new sub-projects.
167.   The selection and appraisal criteria as described above were discussed with the active participation
of representatives of the Borrower and likely participating institutions. The set of criteria for rural
infrastructure investments were finalized during a workshop held in Warsaw July 22, 1999 jointly together
by the MOE, MARD, RSC and Marszaleks of the relevant voivodships and the Bank.
168.   Flow of Funds. Funds will flow according to the Polish Public Finance Law, as presented in the
scheme for the whole project.
169.   Co-financing. The infrastructure sub-projects will be funded from the following sources: (a) a
beneficiary (local government) contribution of a minimum of 30% of the total investment cost (a minimum
10% of the project costs should be collected as capital charges from the final beneficiaries); (b) World
- 81 -



Bank funds provided by the national government to local governments as grants up to 30% for water
supply; and 50% for other infrastructure sub-projects. The WB contribution will be reduced by the same
percentage of which the project receives grant funding from other sources. This means that the total grant
portion for eligible projects is limited to 30 percent for water projects and 50 percent for waste water, roads
and solid waste projects; (c) contribution from regional or national Environment Funds, Eco Fund and
NGOs on a grant or loan basis; and (d) loans to the local governments from commercial bank. Technical
assistance and training (consultancy services) will be funded 100% by Bank funds.
170.  During the first year of project's implementation, EU pre-accession funds are expected to become
available to participating self-governments for infrastructure investments, EU SAPARD funds on a
reimbursement basis for all sixteen voivodships, and EU Phare funds for some voivodships on a
co-financing or parallel financing basis with RDP. These funds are expected to become available in early
2000. Based on discussions with EU authorities and the Polish implementing entities, common project
approval mechanisms will have to be adopted and applied.
Project Component 4 - US$3.77 million
Component D: Project Management (USD$3.77 million).
171.  The project will also finance the costs of the PCU (equipment, staff and O&M), and a provision is
made for the costs incurred by the project teams in the line ministries and the VPIUs. The description of the
functions of each member of the PCU is in annex I of the operational manual. The breakdown of these
costs follows:
Table 9: Budget for the Project Management Component
Items                                   Bank Financing  Government   Total (US$
(US$ million)    (US$ million)  million)
Equipment for the PCU                   0.12            0.03           0.15
Staff for the PCU                       0.71             0.24          0.95
O&M for the PCU                         1.80             0.37          2.17
Consultants                             0.07                           0.07
Business Trips                          0.10             0.01          0.11
Training                                0.06             0.01          0.07
Maintenance                             0.02             0.03          0.05
Audits                                  0.63             0.12          0.75
Preparing the nine additional voivodships for  0.92      0.20          1.12
the program
Incremental costs for the project teams in  0.07         0.10          0.17
the line ministries
Incremental Costs for the VPIUs         0.33                           0.33
Totals                                  3.03             0.74          13.77
- 82 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
;., '.'',""'""":'.'''''' '' '  ' '' ' '"''' '"''  :''' .......... .. .   . ..... .   . .    .. ..    .. . ,.
. .............gnTota
Component A: Micro-credit                                 4.42        12.99         17.41
Sub-component B-1: Labor Redeploymnent Fund              41.06         4.75        45.81
Sub-component B-2: Education                              0.92        20.41        21.33
Sub-component B-3: Institution Building in Local and Regional  0.13   10.64         10.77
Administrations
Component C: Infrastructure                             152.68        16.54        169.22
Component D: Project Management                           2.74         0.64         3.38
Total Baseline Cost                                     201.95        65.97       267.92
Physical Contingencies                                  16.10         3.79         19.89
Price Contingencies                                      6.02         6.01         12.03
Total Project Costs            224.07        75.77       299.84
Front-end fee                    1.20         1.20
Total Financing Required            224.07         76.97       301.04
r- ................La                                                Poreig....   T.ta 
Civil Works                                               159.59         24.16       183.75
Equipment                                                  0.96           7.03         7.99
Vehicles                                                    0.13          2.50         2.63
Technical Assistance                                        0.61         16.75        17.36
Training                                                    1.07          7.66         8.73
CrediVtFund                                               42.93          17.47        60.40
O&M                                                        16.66          0.20        16.86
Staff                                                      2.12           0.00         2.12
Total Project Costs   224.07         75.77        299.84
Front-end fee                    1.20         1.20
Total Financing Required   224.07          76.97       301.04
Note: Differences in totals are due to rounding.
- 83 -



Annex 4
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.    Overview: Reducing unemployment in Poland remains a priority. The Rural Development Project
is expected to generate economic growth and employment in Poland's lagging rural areas. Together with
this main thrust, RDP also includes components to decentralize decision-making and stimulate the
functioning of community based organizations.
2.     Components for the RDP were chosen to address the priority needs based on studies done by the
World Bank ("Competitiveness and Employment. A Framework for Rural Development in Poland", Garry
Christensen and Richard Lacroix, World Bank discussion paper No. 383, 1997). Analyzing the state and
perspectives of Polish agriculture, the authors concluded that significant progress in restructuring
agriculture could be made only if positive changes occur in the rural economy. The economic environment
should be conducive for private sector investment and should lead to diversified economic growth in rural
areas, thus providing alternative jobs for farmers leaving agriculture. The authors have identified several
obstacles to private entrepreneurial activities in rural areas. The most important are: poor rural
infrastructure, low quality of labor force, insufficient support for small and medium enterprise, and low
level of rural financial intermediation. Similar conclusions can be found in papers published by Polish
academics.
3.     The Government of Poland used funds derived from the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL) to mount a large program of rural infrastructure development over 1995-1997. A rough estimate
from the ASAL experience indicates that, apart from other benefits, jobs would be created at a cost of
around US$5,000 (PLN 20,000) per job. However, jobs created cannot be only due to the investments
made under the project. ASAL experience also shows that a comprehensive approach towards economic
development has considerably greater impact on expanding the labor market than actions concentrated only
on removal of one obstacle (namely infrastructure). Gminas that prepared and followed strategies for
economic development which treated infrastructure only as one of many elements in the whole vision of
development, achieved much better results in job creation than gminas which built infrastructure without
pursuing a broader vision.
4.     Consequently, the RDP components are targeted to (i) stimulate private sector development, (ii)
raise quality of the labor force, and (iii) upgrade rural infrastructure. Selection of these components was
internally discussed in the Bank and made available to EU researchers working on accession.
5.    Methodology. The nature of the proposed project does not lend itself to a comprehensive ex-ante
cost-benefit analysis and rate of return calculation. The analytical and evaluative process for the proposed
project has been undertaken in following logical and sequential steps:
Step 1: In an effort to provide greater utility and ownership to the local community, RDP has been designed
to empower rural communities to make decisions from a wide menu of options that would meet their
priority needs for development from pooled financial resources. Demand-driven investment selection is the
first step to bottom-up decision making that has been mandated, with representation of local beneficiaries,
in all administrative bodies of the project. Proxy for utility contributed to local communities is measured by
the level of beneficiary and community ownership and financial participation, assuming that all the
beneficiaries are represented.
- 84 -



Step 2: Next evaluative process for "quality" of investment options are based on previous experiences of
similar operations or studies. It also seeks to establish selection criteria based on coherence to sector
policies, technical specification, environmental norms, financial sustainability, cost-recovery, at least
cost-effectiveness thresholds and cost-benefit where possible and the extent of benefits. Examples, where
possible, and rationale for selection are provided to help the communities during implementation. The
following paragraphs discuss each investment option with this back-drop.
6.     Micro-Credit. The essence of the economic and financial analysis of this component is a
comparison between (a) the average cost of providing social assistance to one unemployed person under the
current policy regime, taking into account the expected duration of an unemployment spell, and (b) the
estimated average cost of the alternative intervention implicit in the design of the sub-component; namely a
"package" of grants, technical assistance, and micro-loans to create new and promote existing
micro-enterprises in rural areas. The data suggest that, under rather conservative assumptions, the package
of investments and activities financed under the component may be a lower cost alternative to the
instruments currently used by the government to deal with long term rural unemployment.
7.     The main findings are (a) a survival rate of micro-enterprises created under the component above
59 percent after two years would make the proposed package more cost-effective than the current regime,
and (b) the main difficulty faced by a micro-credit outlet in achieving sustainability is the low incidence of
entrepreneurship in the country's rural areas, which implies that achieving sustainability in rural Poland
may require more time than in other environments. Details on these findings follow.
8.     The principal sources of information used in obtaining the findings above were: (i) Statistical
Yearbook of the Republic of Poland, Central Statistical Office, Warsaw, 1998; (ii) Statistical Bulletin,
Central Statistical Office, Warsaw, 1999; (iii) Labor Force Survey in Poland, Central Statistical Office,
Warsaw, 1998; (iv) Employment, Wages, and Salaries in the National Economy: First Quarter 1999,
Central Statistical Office, Warsaw, 1999; (v) Registered Unemployment in Poland: First Quarter 1999,
Central Statistical Office, Warsaw, 1999; (vi) Report on the Condition of the Small and Medium Size
Enterprise Sector in Poland, Polish Foundation for Small and Medium Enterprise Promotion and
Development, Warsaw, 1999; (vii) Poland Country Profile, Poland Country Report, and Poland Country
Risk Service, Economist Intelligence Unit, 1999; (viii) Source Materials for a Demand Assessment of
Microfinance Services in the Swietoktyskie and Zachodniopomorskie Voivodships, UNIGLOB Group,
Warsaw, 1999; (ix) financial statements of leading NGO micro-credit service providers operating in
Poland; (x) data from business plans for non-agricultural services, production, and trade microenterprise
activities in Poland; and (xi) discussions with representatives of microcredit service providers currently
operating in Poland.
9.     Cost comparison between the current regime and the activities under the component. The average
cost of one unemployed individual under the current regime of social assistance is a function of the
following variables: (a) total amount of unemployment benefits paid out, (b) total amount of social security
insurance (ZUS) for the unemployed covered by the government, (c) administrative costs of managing the
program, (d) the number of individuals who received unemployment benefits, and the (d) weighted average
duration of unemployment spells. Other relevant variables such as the disbursement profile of the social
benefit payments and the discount rates over the period of disbursement are assumed away in this
formulation for the sake of simplicity and lack of sufficient data. This simplifying assumption should not
modify the bottom line comparison between the two alternative regimes, as their costs are calculated in
nominal terms.
10.    On the basis of these variables and using 1997 data, the estimated lower bound of the (nominal)
- 85 -



average cost of the current regime is US$ 3,442.57 equivalent per unemployed individual eligible for
benefits. This lower bound estimate results from the following calculations. The average annual fiscal cost
(Table I) is simply the total annual fiscal cost of the regime (PLN 4.9 billion for 1997) divided by the
average number of individuals eligible to receive benefits during the year in reference (557,000 individuals)
multiplied by the lower bound of the weighted average of unemployment spells in Table 2 (1.41 years for
end 1998). The average cost indicated above is a lower bound, among other reasons, because 78.4 percent
of those unemployed at the end of 1998 had previous episodes of unemployment. The following tables
summarized the data used for this calculation.
Table 1. Average annual fiscal cost of current regime of social assistance to eligible unemployed (as
of end December 1997, thousand PLN)
Concept                                                    Amount
Unemployment benefits                                      3,300,838
Insurance for unemployed                                   1,463,176
Administrative Costs                                        176,808
Direct budget expenditure                                  4,940,822
Eligible unemployed (as of 12/98)                          557,000
Average annual cost per unemployed                         8.9
Table 2. Duration of current unemployment episode (percentage of total number of unemployed as of
12/98 in each interval at national level)
I month         1-3 months   3-6          6-12        12-24        Over 24 months
months      months      months
10.1            17.1         15.7         16.7        17.0         23.4
The weighted average of the current unemployment episode is 1.41 years. In calculating this average, the
midpoints (e.g., 2 months for 1-3 month category) were used for the intermediate intervals. The values used
for the extreme categories were I month and 24 months, respectively.
11.   The analysis continues with the question of "What would be the survival rate of micro-enterprises
created under the sub-component that would equate the cost of the current regime and that of the
proposed set of activities?". Under the assumptions detailed below, the required two year survival rate is
59 percent. That is, under the assumptions below, if more than 59 percent of micro-enterprises created
under the sub-component are still in business after two years, then the proposed package would be more
cost effective to deal with rural unemployment than the current regime.
12.   The following are the variables and assumptions that determine the average cost of the proposed
package over two years of sub-component implementation: (a) eligible unemployed who receive a grant
(US$ 900) and a micro-loan (average of US$ 2,800) become registered entrepreneurs and forgo social
- 86 -



assistance; (b) entrepreneurs whose micro-enterprises perish within two years return to social assistance
costing the system the amount detailed above, regardless of the timing of the closing of the business (US$
3,442); (c) all administrative and technical assistance costs of the sub-component will be "charged" to
chronically unemployed beneficiaries, an average of US$ 512 over two years (as opposed to taking an
average that includes existing micro-enterprises). From the sub-component cost tables, administrative,
financial, and technical assistance costs for the government amount to US$ I million over two years of
sub-component implementation. The expected number of beneficiaries of the above package is 1,958 over
two years. The corresponding average cost is, thus, US$ 512 over the two years.; (d) loan losses are due to
closing of micro-enterprises and the entire principal amount and interest is lost because all micro-loans fall
in arrears immediately and principal is due in a single payment at maturity (24 months); and (e) interests on
micro-loans are accrued annually.
Letting ? be the accumulated death rate of micro-enterprises that would equate the cost of both policy
regimes, then:
Average cost of current regime = Adm. Cost + Grant + ?[loan size] - [(I -?)(loan size) 2 (1 +rate on loans)]
+ ? (cost of current regime).
Under the above simplifying assumptions, plugging the assumed values for each variable, and solving for?,
the lower bound for accumulated death rate over two years that would equate the nominal cost of the
program for the Government is 41 percent (or equivalently, a survival rate of 51 percent.).
13.    Financial Viability of a Rural Micro-credit Service Provider Retail Point. The financial viability of
a microcredit service provider retail point (SPRP) established under the Off-Farm Employment
sub-component of the Rural Development project is dependent upon the cost structure of its operations the
market-related interest rates at which it will receive and lend out funds, the delinquency rates, and the size
of the market it serves in terms of potential clients. More specifically, the degree to which an SPRP will
achieve sustainable operation depends on: (i) the design and execution of the overall microcredit scheme
(the Off-Farm Employment sub-component of the Rural Development project); (ii) the SPRP's employment
of appropriate business practices (e.g., adequate terms and conditions of microloans, screening of potential
borrowers, enforcement of loan contracts, reserves for loan losses); and (iii) the characteristics of the
particular market in which the SPRP will operate (e.g., macroeconomic indicators, prevailing interest rates,
size and makeup of the market, tax regime).
14.    A computerized financial projection model (CFPM) was used to carry out a study of the financial
viability of providing microcredit in rural areas of Poland through newly-established SPRPs operated by
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The results of the model on the basis of the official data on
employment and entrepreneurship in rural Poland suggest that while SPRPs would significantly reduce
their overall cost of operations relative their lending interest rate, they would not achieve full operational
sustainability by the end of their second year of operations primarily because: (a) the size of the market
(number of existing micro-enterprises who are potential borrowers in the area covered by an SPRP) is too
small; (b) the risks of lending for micro-entrepreneurial start-up activities are too high (i.e., the complement
the residual of the market), and (c) the rates of interests that start-ups (the largest potential according to
official statistics) may be able and willing to pay may be lower than in most micro-finance programs.
15.    The model suggests, under rather punishing assumptions, that SPRPs may achieve sustainability
after about five years of operation, which is longer than the period observed in micro-enterprise programs
that follow best international practices. The additional time predicted by the model may be the result,
however, of strong incentives to under-report self-employment in Poland. Official data on self-employment
- 87 -



in Poland reflect only registered microenterprises and therefore may understate the true incidence of
entrepreneurship given the disincentives to register microenterprise activities. Microentrepreneurs who do
register their operations must: (i) start paying social security tax ("ZUS" tax) equal to 36.5% of their
income (and that of their employees, if any), and (ii) forego their social security entitlements.
16.   The Model. The model generates pro forma balance sheets, income statements, and 40 financial
ratios for a given financial intermediary (Fl) based on assumptions derived from official data for the
macroeconomic environment, size and makeup by client type of the financial market in the area covered by
the Fl, interest rates, financial products, loan portfolio performance, banking regulation, start-up costs, and
operating expenses. The model produces results for six month periods over a duration of five years. The
model was designed to show the relationship between design variables (e.g., financial products, incentive
schemes, initial investments) and the profitability of rural retail financial services. In the case of the Rural
Development project, the model was used specifically to determine the financial viability of a given SPRP
created under the Off-Farm Employment sub-component.
17.    The Assumptions. The purpose of this section is to describe each assumption required by the
model and to justify the particular values used for these assumptions in the base case.
1) Macroeconomic Parameters
Inflation. An initial annual inflation rate of 6%, decreasing to 4% over the next five years is assumed in the
model based on the fact that inflation in Poland has decreased steadily from 33.3% in 1994 to 11.7% in
1998 and is expected to continue to fall gradually.
GDP Growth. An annual real GDP growth rate of 5% for the next five years is assumed based on the fact
that between 1994 and 1998 this rate rose and then fell moderately from 5.3% to 4.8%, and is expected to
remain fairly constant.
Tax on Profits. It is expected that SPRPs will be exempt from paying taxes on their operational surpluses.
Size of the Market. Those individuals and entities eligible for microloans from SPRPs will be: (i)
unemployed persons in rural areas and hidden unemployed (also referred to as "overemployed") persons in
the agriculture sector seeking to start up off-farm microentrepreneurial activities. Henceforth, "unemployed
and hidden unemployed in agriculture" will be referred to simply as "unemployed"; and (ii) existing rural
off-farm microenterprises with five or less employees. Only residents of the two voivodships
(Swietokryskie and Zachodniopomorskie) covered by the Off-Farm Employment sub-component will be
eligible.
Initial Population in the Area Covered by an SPRP. It is assumed that each SPRP will initially cover
approximately six rural and "rural/urban" gminas with average populations of 9,000 each (SPRPs would
be staffed by three loan officers - including a manager - each of whom will cover two gminas). SPRPs are
therefore expected to initially cover an area containing approximately 54,000 individuals. This assumption
is consistent with the experience of microcredit service providers currently operating in rural Poland, whose
loan officers service approximately 2-4 gminas each.
Rate of Growth of the Population. The average annual growth rate of the population in the area covered by
an SPRP is assumed at 0.5%, reflecting the national rate during the years 1980-97. This rate is expected to
remain generally constant during the next five years.
- 88 -



Makeup of the Population by Client Type. Assumptions for the makeup, by client type, of the population in
the area covered by an SPRP are based on official statistical data for the two eligible voivodships. These
data show that: (i) rural unemployed persons constitute about 13% of the rural population; and (ii) there
are approximately three rural microenterprises of five or less employees for every 100 individuals in rural
areas. For the purposes of conservative estimation, the makeup of the rural population is assumed to
remain constant during the next five years, even though the transition to a market economy may lead to an
increase in entrepreneurial activity.
2) Estimation of the Demand for Loans
Potential Demand for Loans. It is assumed that 15% of all unemployed and 45% of existing
microenterprises in the area covered by an SPRP might have an effective demand for microloans (i.e.,
might be both willing and able to borrow). This assumption is based on several factors, including: (i) the
affordability of microloans at market-related interest rates as evidenced by the willingness and ability of
existing Polish microenterprises, some of which operate in rural areas, to obtain and repay (at an
approximate 95% repayment rate) microloans at 29% average annual interest while simultaneously
generating significant positive returns on investment and maintaining the productive base of their
businesses; (ii) the results of surveys conducted by the Agency for Agricultural Property of the State
Treasury, which indicate that 10% of unemployed former state-owned farm workers - regarded as the
worst-off of the unemployed - wish to become self-employed, but lack access to the necessary resources to
do so; (iii) discussions with representatives of micro and small business development organizations in the
Rural Development project's target voivodships, which affirmed the existence of demand for microcredit
for unemployed persons and existing microenterprises in the rural areas and small towns of these
voivodships; (iv) indication from a leading provider of microcredit at market-related interest rates in rural
Poland that the demand for microloans is high; and (v) the recent disbursement of 60 microloans over three
months to rural areas in Poland by another leading microcredit service provider.
Actual Coverage of Potential Borrowers. Actual coverage of potential borrowers refers to the percentage of
those unemployed and existing microenterprises that might demand loans that actually obtain loans from an
SPRP. It is assumed that initially 5% of these unemployed and microenterprises that might demand loans
will actually obtain loans from SPRPs (1% of all unemployed and 2% of all microenterprises in the area
covered by an SPRP). It is further assumed that this 5% rate of actual coverage will increase gradually to
19% over two years due primarily to: (i) increased access to lending services brought about by the physical
presence of the SPRP in the area that it covers (lower transaction costs for borrowers); and (ii) improved
delivery of lending services resulting from the development and application of improved business practices
by the SPRP through (a) technical assistance and training received via the Rural Development project, and
(b) lessons learned over time regarding lending in rural areas.
Regulation of Reserves for Loan-losses. Although SPRPs will not be required by law to maintain reserves
for loan losses, as a matter of sound business practice they will keep such reserves by classifying their
loans in five risk categories (A through E, from lowest to highest risk). Each category calls for a percentage
of the loan portfolio outstanding to be reserved for loan losses. The percentages corresponding to categories
A through E would 0%, 10%, 50%, 75%, and 100% respectively.
Accrued Interest in Arrears. The percentage of accrued interest in arrears for each risk category is
calculated as the product of the sum of the principal outstanding on loans in each risk category and a
percentage of the outstanding loan portfolio, where this percentage increases with the risk category. The
accrued interest in arrears for risk categories A through E would be 0%, 1%, 2%, 5%, and 10%
respectively.
- 89 -



Write-offs from the Loan Portfolio. It is assumed that 8% of the loan portfolio outstanding will be written
off on an annual basis. This write-off rate - higher than actual rates experienced by existing microcredit
service providers operating in rural Poland - considers the added risk of lending for start-up activities.
Write-offs reduce the reserve for loan-losses and gross loan portfolio by equal amounts. Write-offs also
affect profits by the difference between the amount written off and the expense for provisions for
loan-losses that had been required before the loan was stricken from the books.
Interest Penalties for Arrears. It is assumed that SPRPs will increase the interest rate charged on accrued
interest in arrears by 25% of the original interest rate.
Accrued Interest in Arrears that is Collected. It is assumed that 75% of accrued interest in arrears will be
collected.
Elasticity of the Average Loan Portfolio Outstanding Relative to Real GDP Growth and Inflation. The
elasticity of an SPRP's average loan portfolio outstanding considers: (i) elasticity with respect to inflation
and real GDP growth rates; and (ii) the time it takes (lag) for borrowers to adjust their loan balances with
respect to inflation and real GDP growth rates. While estimates for these elasticities are not available, it is
reasonable to assume that within three months of changes in inflation, borrowers would adjust their average
loan balances outstanding to 90% of their desired levels. Within three months of changes in real GDP
growth, microenterprises would adjust their average loan balances outstanding to 90% of their desired
levels, while unemployed would do so to 80% of their desired levels.
Terms and Conditions of Loans. It is assumed that SPRPs will issue two types of loans: short-term and
long-term.
Average Loan Balances and Terms to Maturity. The assumed average sizes of initial short- and long-term
microloans offered by SPRPs are US$ 2,491 (70% of GDP per capita) and US$ 2,847 (80% of GDP per
capita) respectively. The assumed average terms to maturity for short- and long-term loans will be 12 and
24 months respectively. These loan sizes and terms to maturity resemble those offered by the leading
providers of microcredit in Poland's rural areas.
Interest Rates and Commissions. The assumed interest rates on SPRP microloans are 14% for short-term
loans and 16% for long-term loans. These rates are market-related and consistent, on average, with rates
currently charged by microcredit service providers operating in Poland, several of which operate in rural
areas. In fact, these assumed rates appear well below affordable levels when compared with data which
suggest that existing Polish microenterprises, some of which operate in rural areas, are willing and able to
pay average annual interest rates of 29% on microloans while simultaneously generating significant profits
and maintaining the productive base of their businesses. The rates assumed in the model are below these
observed rates because one of the objectives of the Off-Farm Employment sub-component is to induce
currently unemployed to forego the comforts of social assistance and assume the risks of starting up
microentrepreneurial operations.
It is assumed that commissions of 1.5% and 2.5% will be charged on short- and long-term loans
respectively. These rates are consistent with the current practice of existing microcredit service providers
operating in rural areas of Poland.
Quality of the Portfolio. It is assumed that microloans issued by SPRPs will be classified in five risk
- 90 -



categories (A through E, from lowest to highest) according to the repayment capacity and experience of
borrowers. Based on international experience, for microenterprises it is assumed that categories A through
E will contain 70%, 20%, 6%, 3%, and 1%, respectively, of the loan portfolio outstanding. For
unemployed, these categories will contain 55%, 25%, 11%, 6%, and 3%, respectively, of the loan portfolio
outstanding. As mentioned previously, the percentage of the loan portfolio outstanding in each category that
will be reserved for loan losses would be 0%, 10%, 50%, 75%, and 100% for categories A through E
respectively.
3) Interest Rate on Project Funds Received by SPRPs for Lending to Final Beneficiaries. Financial
Investments, and Equity
Interest Rate on Project Funds Received by SPRPs for Lending to Final Beneficiaries. SPRPs will not
borrow project funds for on-lending per se. Rather, they will lend these funds to final beneficiaries on
behalf of the Government. Interest earned on these funds will be returned to the Government. While the
Government will ultimately determine the interest rate on project funds, this rate is assumed at 13%
(12-month T-Bill rate plus 1%) for the purposes of the model.
Equity and Retained Earnings. SPRPs will share the credit risk with the Government by providing, out of
their own resources, approximately 25% of every microloan disbursed. Based on projections for the
average amount, over two years, of project funds received by an SPRP for lending to final beneficiaries
(about US$ 1.9 million), it is estimated that each SPRP would provide approximately US$ 414,000 in
paid-in capital. It is assumed that any operational surplus generated by an SPRP will be invested in
short-term securities.
Financial Investments. It is assumed that any excess cash held by SPRPs will be invested in short-term
securities at the 12-month T-Bill rate (currently 12%) plus 1%.
4) Initial Investment
The initial cash outlay for establishing an SPRP is assumed at US$ 7,690, and includes equipment (US$
4,800), furniture (US$ 790), organizational costs (US$ 1,400), and other investments (US$ 700). The
largest expenditures are computers (US$ 2,000) and staff training (US$ 900). The initial investment is
recognized as an expense over time as the assets acquired are depreciated and the organization cost is
amortized. These figures, as well as those for administrative and personnel expenses below, are based on
actual figures experienced by several leading microcredit service providers currently operating in Poland.
5) Administrative Expenses
The monthly administrative expenses of an SPRP are estimated at US$ 1,075, and include primarily rent
(US$ 250), supplies (US$ 250), telecommunications and postage (US$ 200), and community relations
(US$ 250). Miscellaneous expenses are estimated at 5% of administrative expenses. These expenses adjust
monthly for inflation with an elasticity of 90%.
6) Personnel Expenses and the Productivity of Employees
Salary and Incentives. It is assumed that SPRP employees will earn a base salary plus a performance bonus
based on profits generated by the SPRP.
Performance Bonuses. It is assumed that the employees will receive performance bonuses equal to 2% of
- 91 -



profits generated by the SPRP.
Social Security Benefits. SPRPs will be required by law to pay social security tax ("ZUS" tax) equal to
36.5% of employees' monthly base salary.
Recruitment and Training of New Employees. The non-salary cost of recruiting and training additional
staff is estimated at US$ 150 per new employee.
Salaries and Number of Employees. It is assumed that an SPRP will open with three full-time employees:
one manager and two loan officers. An accountant would be hired part-time or the cost of an accountant
will be prorated to the SPRP's headquarters. The monthly base salary for the manager, loan officers, and
accountant would be US$ 500, US$ 450, and US$ 400 respectively.
Growth of Salaries. Nominal salaries are expected to adjust with respect to inflation every six months with
an elasticity of 85%.
Productivity of Employees. The need to hire additional staff is determined by the productivity of the loan
officers. It is assumed that loan officers could handle an average of 150 microloans each. This figure is
based on the experience of several microcredit service providers currently operating in Poland.
7) Discount Rate for Future Cash Flows
The base case discounted future cash flows are assumed at 15%, 30%, and 60%.
8) Self-sustainability of a Microcredit Service Provider Retail Point
Introduction. The operational self-sustainability of a microcredit service provider retail point (SPRP)
established under the Rural Development project is determined by whether or not its overall cost of
operations is covered by interest income. An SPRP which is not self-sustainable may, in principle, become
self-sustainable by: (i) controlling the overall cost of operations; and (ii) charging adequate lending rates.
Cost of operations as a percentage of the loan portfolio. The components of the overall cost of operations
of an SPRP are: (i) cost of funds (cost of project funds lent by the SPRP to final beneficiaries and cost of
equity); (ii) expense for provision for loan losses; (iii) operating expense (administrative expense, personnel
expense, depreciation and amortization, and miscellaneous expense); and (iv) performance bonuses for
personnel. Under reasonable assumptions made based on official data, each component of the cost of
operations as a percentage of the total loan portfolio outstanding of an SPRP was projected. The largest
components of the overall cost of operations are, in descending order, expense for provision for loan losses,
cost of funds, and operating expense. Of these, expense for provision for loan losses and operating
expenses are the components over which the SPRP may exercise the greatest measure of control.
Controlling the cost of operations. While it is expected that SPRPs will experience a decline in their overall
cost of operations in the short-term, they may not achieve full operational self-sustainability by the end of
their second year of operations due primarily to persistent relatively high levels of loan losses. Controlling
the overall cost of operations would be achieved through the employment of sound business practices.
SPRPs would develop improved methodologies for lending in rural areas through: (i) technical assistance
and training received under the Rural Development project regarding rural microlending best practices; and
(ii) lessons learned over time from lending in the particular rural areas where they operate.
- 92 -



Increasing the lending interest rate. The official data suggest that the assumed 16% annual lending interest
rate charged by SPRPs may not fully cover the cost of operations by the end of their second year of
operations. Further analysis suggests, however, that the cost of operations would be covered if this lending
rate were increased to at least 20.5%, ceteris paribus. It is expected that this higher rate would be feasible
in light of: (i) similar rates charged by the leading provider of microcredit to rural areas of Poland; and (ii)
data from actual business plans on a series of non-agricultural services, production, and trade
microenterprise activities which suggest the affordability of microloans at higher rates still.
Conclusion. Under reasonable assumptions made based on official data, this analysis suggests that SPRPs
established under the Rural Development project will experience a decline in their overall cost of operations
relative their lending interest rates in the short-term. However, SPRPs may not achieve full operational
self-sustainability by the end of two years of operations. To achieve self-sustainability, SPRPs should: (i)
further reduce their overall cost of operations (expense for provision for loan losses in particular) through
adopting improved business practices; and (ii) increase their lending rates if possible (see working papers
for details).
18.    Labor Redeployment. This sub-component includes a small activity to help identify short and
medium term economic trends and labor requirements via local surveys, and a major Labor Redeployment
Fund to support development of needed human capital (labor). The sub-component has both an economic
and social rational. Government support to mitigate the social impacts of economic restructuring and
reform in rural areas is in this sense a cost of building political support for the county's economic reform
program. From an economic perspective retention of surplus labor in state or private enterprises lowers
productivity, increases enterprise losses, impedes enterprise restructuring, delays the potential reallocation
of labor to productive alternative employment, and consumes state budget resources in the form of direct or
indirect subsidies. Workers in loss-making majority state owned enterprises receive direct and indirect
public subsidies in the form of subsidized wages, other subsidized inputs, subsidies to the banking system,
and inter-enterprise arrears. The total cost of these subsidies typically exceeds by a significant margin the
combined cost of unemployment benefits, social assistance, and targeted labor redeployment measures.
19.    The basic economic rationale is that moving workers, via labor redeployment programs, from jobs
where they are not productive and receive public subsidies to jobs where they are productive and do not
receive public subsidies reduces public budget outlays and increases GDP. At the same time, GDP will
increase to the extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are new jobs or higher productivity jobs
than participants held previously. The Labor Redeployment Fund finances specific services to: (a) improve
labor mobility and addressfrictional unemployment; (b) enhance and change human capital, via retraining,
to address structural unemployment and improve productivity; and (c) address the lack of demandfor
labor including support to individuals to help them start and maintain micro and small businesses, and to
communities to implement temporary community employment schemes and design local economic
development plans.
20.    While it is very difficult to evaluate the economic impact of the small labor survey component, the
gross and net impact of the labor services financed by the Labor Redeployment Fund can be quantified to
some degree, with the exception of local economic development planning grants for which the impact is
long term and difficult to evaluate within the project time frame. A recent World Bank quasi experimental
design study "Evaluating the Impact ofActive Labor Programs: Results of Cross Country Studies in
Europe and Central Asia ", World Bank Discussion Paper ,June, 1999, found that labor redeployment
services can have a positive net impact on employment, wages, the use duration of income support
payments (i.e. unemployment benefits). The impact varies according to program design and demographics
- 93 -



of participants. This four countries study included Poland and was implemented by the Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy. The information from this has and will continue to be used to design services with the
greatest economic and social impact with different target groups and will be presented to all voivodships
participating in the project prior to use of project funds.
21.    Selection Criteria for the Labor Redeployment sub-component. LRF funds would be available in
rural and urban/rural gminas in each voivodship, as agreed with the Bank. Investments by voivodship
would be based on an algorithm based on the percentage share of rural population for the participating
gminas. There would not be any pre-allocation by powiat or gmina within voivodships, as use of resources
will be by demand and need. All services financed by the component will be continually monitored to
determine their impact on post-program employment and wages, and adjustments will be made during
implementation to improve impact.
22.    The project provides for monitoring of the status of program participants relative to their
post-program employment status, earnings, and receipt of continued public income support payments. It is
anticipated that the gross impact of the services will equal or exceed those found in the previously
mentioned study and that post program employment will be a minimum of 15% after receipt of employment
services, 50% for participants in retraining, 10% of employment in temporary community employment
programs, 5% of those who make initial contact for assistance in starting small businesses will actually
start businesses, and 90% of those entering business incubators will continue to operate a small business at
the end of one year.
23.    Education. Rehabilitation of school infrastructure and development of a school transportation
system in rural gminas will promote the consolidation of the current school network leading, on the one
hand, to increased efficiency in the utilization of resources by increasing student:teacher and
student:classroom ratios. On the other hand, it will bring savings into the system by evolving a school
network that is more energy efficient and is better utilized.
24.   Improvement in the quality of education will reduce repetition and dropout ratios. As a
consequence of this more, students will graduate and it will take less time and resources per graduate, thus
reducing the average cost per graduate. On the other hand, quality improvements will provide graduates
with better and more relevant knowledge and skills, which in turn will increase their potential to be
employed, productive and trainable.
25.   Lessons from Education operations/study. During project preparation, a group of consultants
hired by the World Bank and the seven voivodships (Marszalek Offices) conducted an assessment of
education needs in eligible gminas. As a result of this assessment, over 84 percent of eligible rural and
mixed urban-rural gminas submitted applications for support by the RDP. The interest expressed by
gminas as reflected by the number of application presented in every single intervention area is beyond the
initial expectations. For example, in the area of teacher training gminas expressed the need for training
132,253 participants, including 46,015 participants in information technology training. Gminas applied for
support to purchase a total of 68,650 units of educational materials, out of which 18,023 are books for
rural school libraries. The data show that as a result of education reform and changes in the school
network, the number of student who require transportation to schools will grow by 47 percent, i.e. by
57,681 students in the seven regions. Twenty eight percent of applications concerning school infrastructure
were related to school rehabilitation. This is an indication that the most urgent need in this area, as
expressed by gminas, is for supporting gminas effort to upgrade its current school infrastructure
26.    Selection Criteria for Education Proiects. Distribution of resources by voivodship will be done
- 94 -



based on an allocation algorithm that combines three indices. The first index takes into account the number
of primary and gymnasium level student-age population of rural gminas. The second index will be an
indicator of resource utilization at the school level, which will be estimated using the gmina student:teacher
ratio. The third indicator will measure school overcrowding, which will be estimated by using the average
square meter of school facilities per student-age population. Each of the above indices will have a weight
equal to 33.33% of the total
27.    The evaluation of education projects presented by gminas will be a two stage process. During stage
one, the Regional Steering Committee will screen sub-projects to assess if they are eligible for financing
under the RDP. Under stage two, sub-projects will be ranked based on a set of six criteria. Those
sub-projects with the highest ranking will be selected for financing. Gminas presenting more than one
sub-project proposal in a single area covered by the education component of the RDP should present their
proposals ranked according to their own internal priorities. Priorities will be given to the highest ranked
proposals.
Stage I Eligibility Criteria
1.     Proposed project to benefit primary schools and gymnasia located in rural areas within the
voivodships participating in the RDP
2.     Project proposal addresses needs in the areas of: (a) training of teachers, school directors, school
network administrators; (b) education materials and school equipment; (c) education software; (d)
rehabilitation of school infrastructure; and (e) school transportation
3.     Project proposal is in compliance with the objective of the RDP
4.     Project proposal is submitted by eligible gmina
Stage II General Evaluation Criteria
1.    The gmina has an education improvement plan with: clear definition of short and long term
education objectives; good assessment of school infrastructure and school transportation need based on
demographic and school infrastructure data; good assessment of teacher training needs based on an analysis
of teachers' training needs, professional profile and expertise; and good assessment of needs for
instructional materials based on school inventory
2.     The proposed project addresses one or more of the needs identified in the education improvement
plan
3.     The proposed project was developed in consultation with local stakeholders and has full support of
the gmina council
4.     Comparison of the assessment of needs done by the gmina with standards defined by MONE shows
that there is a deficit that needs to be covered by the project
5.    In presenting its proposals the gmina is able to show that it has analyzed different alternatives and
that the proposed intervention is the most "cost-effective" solution to the problem at hand
6.     Project proposals that contain additional co-financing by gminas (than the standard one established
by the project) receive additional points.
- 95 -



Table 3. Cost-effectiveness of Education component under RDP
Sub-component                   Units of      Cost-effectiveness               Cost-effectiveness from similar
measurement                                   operations*
A. Program For Improving the Quality Cost per  $343                            1,200 PLN = $343**
of Teaching Through Teacher     training
Training                        participant
B. Program for Improving School    Cost per school $3,900                     None available
Equipment
C. Program For Supporting The   Cost per gmina $1,305 (software)               38,167 PLN = $10,905 (lhardware &
Introduction of Computers                     $454,545 (national resource center)  software
$800 (IT training for 2 participants,  4,500 PLN = $1,286 ( IT teacher
i.e. $400 per participant)      training for 3 participants
i.e. $429 per participant)
5,500 PLN = $1,572 (auxiliary
equipment and installation)
D. Program For Improving School    Cost per gmina $52,000 (school rehabilitation)  None available
Facilities & Education Efficiency             $51,750 (transport)
(transport)                                                                 . 200,000 PLN = $57,143 (transport)
E. Project Implementation                     $270,000 total                  None available
* Cost-effectiveness comparisons are based on the pilot program undertaken by the Ministry of Education in 1998 and 1999.
28.    The project provides for monitoring of the status of teachers relative to their post-program
employment status, earnings, performance standards and receipt of continued public income support
payments if they are currently unemployed. It is anticipated that the gross impact of the services will equal
or exceed those found in the pilot programs of the Ministry of Education, and will result in greater cost
savings than without project practice (actual numbers are being assessed). The pilot is being evaluated by
independent evaluators. Based on the latest information, the teachers trained by the program have expressed
their satisfaction with the contents and method of training. The pilot training program has raised the level
of teachers' qualifications thus training them to teach new school courses and remain in the profession by
qualifying them for future accreditation system to be implemented.
29.    Institution building in local and regional administration. The proposed sub-component will
provide a number of benefits. The project will assist in output recovery and sustained economic growth
through policy actions that promote among other things private investments. It will increase the levels of
efficiency and effectiveness of public services by decentralizing decision making, implementation, and
monitoring of programs and investments. Data are not adequate to allow a precise project cost-benefit or
cost-effectiveness analysis. Hence a cost-recovery analysis was undertaken.
30.    Lessons Learned from similar operations in Poland. USAID and the British Know-How Fund
(BKHF) have financed several training programs for self-government, some of which are still on-going.
This component will utilize the experience gained under these programs, and where possible, build on the
results achieved. The main lessons learned by USAID and BKHF are (i) training courses and materials
need to take into account the specific structure and conditions of administrative units operating in remote
rural areas, and (ii) in as much as possible, training should be provided as part of overall institutional
development programs.
31.    In the near future, the most active donor in this realm will be the EU-Phare program, which has
embarked on a series of projects with the aim to strengthen Regional Development capacity in the office of
the Marszalek in a number of voivodships. Self-governments receive training in tourism development and
procedures for accessing pre-accession (SAPARD) and structural funds. The implementation of this
- 96 -



component will therefore aim for a close co-operation with these other donors, especially EU-Phare, to
avoid duplication and achieve mutual strengthening.
32.    Selection Criteria. The Institutional Development Programs (IDP) will be implemented in selected
administrative units. The most important overall criteria for selecting any administrative unit is the degree
of commitment of board members and senior officials, as well as staff, to aim for significant performance
improvements in these units. Other criteria for the selection of pilot units are listed in the operational
manual.
33.    All the other rural administrative units operating in the project areas can choose to send elected
officials and staff to RDP training courses. Since demand for training is expected to exceed by far the
number of training spots available, training requests will be prioritized according to training needs,
willingness to participate in training costs, chances of people trained to apply their new skills and similar
criteria. The IDP investments will focus on the few administrative units to be chosen in two voivodships.
For the overall training it is expected that all seven project voivodships will receive roughly equal shares.
34.    Cost Recovery Analysis. Benefits: This sub-component will provide economic benefits through
increased efficiency of Public Administration in the pilot administrative units and the other beneficiaries,
i.e. units that participate in the training program. Through the Institutional Development Program (IDP),
in the pilot areas, efficiency gains will especially be realized through: (i) an improved organization
structure; (ii) better financial and project management, cutting costs where possible; (iii) out-sourcing
services to the private sector; (iv) the overall introduction of good government, simplification of local
regulations and procedures, 'prudent shopping' practices etc. In the overall Training Program efficiency
gains will be to a larger extent dependent on the extent to which the participating units are willing to apply
the techniques learnt in their own organization. The selected approach however maximizes the likelihood
that the participating bodies will receive relevant and applicable expertise, and will be motivated to apply
the knowledge obtained. The availability of investment funds from other components of the RDP, as well as
from the EU (pre-accession and at a later stage structural funds) will be a strong motivating factor for all
participating units to apply the techniques learnt (see below). Other non-quantifiable benefits, such as
transparency of decision-making, improved public participation in decision making, client-oriented service
delivery etc. will be assessed through the beneficiary and the client survey towards the end of the project.
For this analysis, the IDP is expected to cover two voivodships, four powiats and fourteen gminas, whereas
the general training is expected to reach some 3,000 participants working in about 200 administrative units.
35.    Costs: Investment costs to the amount of US$ 10.1 million, as well as the costs of the Project
Management Unit, have been allocated over the years 1999, 2000 and 2001. Furthermore it is supposed
that, in order to retain the newly trained staff within the administrative units, per unit participating in the
IDP on average US$ 45,000 annually would have to be spent additionally on remuneration, which has been
rounded off at US$ 1,000,000. This represent a net overall wage increase of some 33%, which however is
justified considering the new responsibilities and value added of the trained staff in the administrative units.
USD 200,000 annually (about 10% of investment expenditure) is foreseen for O&M of the equipment
provided.
36.    Data were lacking for empirical cost-benefit analysis. Instead, a cost-recovery calculation analysis
was performed, in which the efficiency gains have been expressed as percentages of the 1999 annual budget
of a voivodship (annual budget US$ 40 million), powiat (annual budget US$ 7 million) and gmina (annual
budget US$ 1.5 million). For gmina and Marszalek's office, including the Sejmik (provicial assembly),
examples were used from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. This voivodship will be covered by the
RDP, and is representative for the seven voivodships in the project. For the powiat level, a country wide
- 97 -



average was taken, which, considering the small deviation in the population, is also representative. It was
assumed efficiency gains would amount to 2% of the budget including the participants in the general
training program. Full development was expected in year seven. Over a period of analysis of 15 years, the
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) amounts to about 39%, and the Net Present Value (NPV) at 12% discount
rate is about USD 19 million.
37.    These efficiency gains are an extremely conservative estimates, considering that this project
sub-component will result in a higher value of services delivered by self-governments, and facilitates access
to the other components (e.g. physical infrastructure, rural education and others). In addition, the
component will contribute to making the units eligible for financial support from EU pre-accession funds
(e.g. SAPARD) or, at a later stage, European structural funds. Several EU-Phare programs endeavor to
improve the absorption capacity for EU funds through strengthening public administration, but so far these
efforts have been focused on a limited number of units, and mainly at the voivodship level.
38.    A sensitivity analysis was performed for the number of participating units, which showed that with
one participating voivodship, two participating powiats and seven participating gminas, and reaching out
with general training to 100 units only, the IRR would be about 13% and the NPV US$ 0.5 million.
39.    Infrastructure. Construction of infrastructure is one of the major factors in the economic
stimulation of rural areas especially in regions where insufficient infrastructure is the most limiting factor
for entrepreneurial activity.
40.    Lessons learned from similar operations in Poland. A rough estimate from the ASAL experience
indicates that rural infrastructure investments realized considerable potential for permanent and relatively
inexpensive generation of sustainable jobs directly connected with the construction and operation of the
infrastructure and indirectly resulting from private investment. Stimulation of rural areas through
infrastructure projects should be based on strategic plans of economic development in the municipalities. It
is necessary to supplement the extension of infrastructure with other elements like education, stimulation of
small businesses (supplying them with information, legal assistance, joint promotion, business incubators),
adaptation of local regulations (local physical and land use planning or zoning, currently implemented in
many municipalities) to stimulate small businesses, the involvement of private business in the development
of the area (privatization, joint public and private projects). Infrastructure projects will be mostly located in
areas with relatively high concentration of population.
41.    Selection Criteria. Quality review for investment proposals is being performed by the local office
of ARMA against technical, economic, financial and institutional requirements. Clear rules for qualifying
investment sub-projects include a financial and economic justification based on models prepared by
Agrisystems Inc. and financed by the British Know How Fund. Investments will only be approved if they
generate a nominal EIRR higher than 10 percent (see Table 4). These models for the financial and
economic analysis of small infrastructure investments are incorporated in the operational manual. In
addition, consultants will provide hands-on training for the local offices of ARMA, VPIUs, Departments of
Regional Development and gminas during implementation. As an example, the model for rural roads is
attached in Appendix 2-1. Models for other infrastructure investments are included in the operational
manual.
Table 4. Selected thresholds for the selection of rural infrastructure sub-projects
- 98 -



Thresholds
Local government contribution                             30% - 50%
Nominal EIRR                                              10%
Cost Recovery of O&M costs for revenue generating services    Full
42.    The RSCs rank the sub-projects following a set of criteria: (i) importance for the broader regional
economic development plan; (ii) potential for direct and indirect job creation; (iii) joint proposals among
gminas which reflect the principle of economy of scale in project design; (iv) contributions of
self-government to investment cost; and (v) economic rate of return.
43.    Project Risks. The principal project risks relate to: (a) the capacity of the local governments to
implement the proposed program; and (b) the willingness and ability of communities to collaborate in
planning, prioritizing, monitoring, implementing and funding development plans. The project has made
sufficient provision to cope with the above risks in the institutional sub-component of the project.
44.    Fiscal Impact. Fiscal costs of unemployment were analyzed to determine the range of benefits
arising from employment generation. The analysis was performed per person moving from unemployed
ranks to employment and on 1997 Central Statistical Office and government data. Future expectations are
therefore legitimate only under the assumption of non significant changes in the conditions which have been
examined.
45.    Budget cost of unemployment as in Table 2 consists of three major elements: (i) unemployment
benefit, (ii) contribution to health schemes, and (iii) administrative costs of managing the unemployment
scheme. Annual cost of unemployment benefit per person for an average unemployment period in 1997 is
about US$ 3,442. This calculation takes into account time limitation in receiving the benefit. Each
unemployed is entitled to free health care. Additionally PLN 100 are the operational and maintenance costs
of the unemployment scheme. This analysis indicates that annual fiscal savings from converting
unemployed to employed per person would be about PLN 2,700 (US$ 825). However, there is one
exception: the administrative costs of managing the unemployment scheme will decline less than
proportionally - the assumption is that reducing the rate of unemployment by half will diminish this cost by
30%.
46.    Employment of one previously unemployed person will also generate additional fiscal benefits to
the budget in a form of income tax and higher revenue from Value Added Tax. Estimation of these benefits
was performed under two assumptions (i) minimum salary; and (ii) average salary. It is difficult to estimate
a priori the level of salary, which will be received by newly employed people under the project. Based on
arguments that the level of professional skills of unemployed persons is usually low and wages in rural
areas are lower than in urban, table 5 covers only the lower half range of Polish wages.
Table 5. Annual fiscal benefit of creating job for unemployed person (minimum and average annual
salary in PLN)
Minimum salary       Average salary
99 -



5,121.00            12,789.12
Tax free income                                624.48               624.48
Taxable income                                 4,496.52             12,164.64
Income tax                                     854.34              2,311.28
Income increase (salary minus taxes)           2,459.37             8,670.55
Propensity to spend                            0.99                 0.94
Expenditure increase                           2,434.78             8,112.91
Food expenditure                               1,053.19            2,675.88
VAT on food                                    73.72                187.31
Non-food expenditure                           1,381.59             5,437.03
VAT on non-food                                138.16               815.55
VAT benefit                                    211.88               1,002.87
Fiscal Benefit                                 1,066.22             3,314.15
47.   The income tax revenue was calculated from the salary minus tax free amount times the applicable
tax rate of 19%. Higher revenue from Value Added Tax was calculated for the two salary levels in five
stages:
* Income increase was estimated from the difference between salary and unemployment benefit (PLN
2,500 and 8,700 per year for minimum and average wage respectively)
* Propensity to consume was calculated on the basis of household survey data for groups with income
levels comparable to minimum and average wage (99% and 94% respectively). Propensity to consume
for unemployed people was 100%
* Because the VAT rate varies among groups of products this effect was taken into account by
estimating the part of increased expenditures spent for food (7% VAT) and non-food products. VAT
for non-food products also varies, generally to support poor consumers, therefore two effective values
of 10% and 15% were applied for minimal and average wages respectively
*   From these, higher VAT revenues were estimated from PLN 210 to 1,000 depending on the salary level
* Summing up the income taxes and higher VAT revenues gives a range between PLN 1,050 and 3,300
per year from creation of one job for an unemployed person. Finally, total fiscal benefits were
calculated by adding budget costs foregone and new revenues. They range from PLN 3,800 to 6,000
per year as in Table 6.
Table 6. Annual fiscal benefit from job creation for an unemployed person
Assuming minimal salary        Assuming average salary        Middle value
- 100 -



In PLZ         3,771                         6,019                      4,895
In US$         1,150                         1,835                      1,492
- 101 -



Appendix 2-1 ROAD INVESTMENT EVALUATION MODEL
Explanatory Notes.
1.    The Scope of the Model.
The purpose of the Road Investment Evaluation Model is to provide the central authorities with criteria for
allocating funds amongst competing rural road improvement projects. It is important, therefore, that the
economic evaluations prepared by different gminas for their respective improvement proposals are
consistent, one with another, even at the cost of some minor loss of accuracy in particular cases. For this
reason, it is recommended that as much of the basic working data as is realistically possible be provided to
the gminas by the central authorities to ensure comparable results and avoid deliberate inflation of benefits.
It is also recommended that the model be kept as simple as possible to facilitate its use at the gmina level.
In this model, incorporating a 20 year project evaluation period from 2000 to 2020, the potential costs of
the project are the construction costs of the improved road and subsequent maintenance costs (In many
cases the maintenance costs would be less than those which would be incurred without the project: for this
reason net maintenance costs are shown as a positive or negative item on the benefits side of the evaluation
table).
The corresponding potential benefits are the maintenance cost savings, mentioned above, and the savings in
vehicle operating costs (VOCs) for normal and generated traffic. In some rural road evaluations, the net
value added of induced agricultural production is estimated directly as a project benefit. This approach,
however, tends to be complex, subjective and arbitrary for want of reliable data. For reasons of simplicity
and consistency, therefore, the model takes, conservatively, the operating cost benefits of the additional
traffic generated by the induced agricultural activity as representative of the net value of the increased
production. A further theoretical benefit would be the residual value of the investment at the end of the
evaluation period. Given the effect of discounting over lengthy 20 year project period, however, residual
values would, in fact, be negligible and so have not been provided for in the model: they could be
incorporated if required.
By comparing the estimated costs and benefits of the project in question, the model produces a stream of
net benefits and calculates the corresponding economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and net present value
(NPV). The NPV is calculated on the basis of a discount rate estimated to reflect the current opportunity
cost of capital in Poland. The model is formulated in terms of US dollars but can be adapted for any
currency.
The model provides for the economic evaluation of rural road projects. As the investment yields no
corresponding stream of revenues, as in the case of public utilities where consumers pay directly for the
services provided, and as "operating costs" are limited to standard road maintenance, with the costs of
vehicle operation being borne by users themselves, there is no corresponding cash flow, balance sheet or
profit & loss account. In this circumstance, no meaningful financial rate of return on the road investment
can be estimated so no corresponding financial model has been formulated.
2.     The Structure of the Model.
a)     Road Conditions.
- 102 -



The model provides for the evaluation of rural road improvement projects under six sets of conditions:
upgrading to new bitumen standard from either a gravel or a degraded bitumen standard, in either flat,
undulating or mountainous terrain. Each of these six circumstances would require the evaluator to use an
appropriate variant of the mode]. They could, at the price of some complexity and increased risk of error or
misunderstanding, all be incorporated into a single comprehensive model. It is felt, however, that, in the
circumstances of the PIP, it would be simpler and safer for the evaluator to select the model variant as
appropriate from the following:
I.     Upgrade from gravel to new bitumen in flat terrain.
2.     Upgrade from gravel to new bitumen in undulating terrain.
3.     Upgrade from gravel to new bitumen in mountainous terrain.
4.     Upgrade from degraded to new bitumen in flat terrain.
5.     Upgrade from degraded to new bitumen in undulating terrain.
6.     Upgrade from degraded to new bitumen in mountainous terrain.
These are broad definitions as, obviously, old bitumen roads could be degraded to different degrees or
undulations vary in severity. But it is considered that some standardization is desirable to achieve
comparable conclusions. If practicable, it would be better for the central authorities to decree the standard
of terrain for a particular road or area to ensure consistency between evaluations from different regions.
Additional road conditions could be included in the model if necessary.
Each evaluation would be carried out for a road of specified length. No provision is made in the current
version of the model for changes in length as a result of the upgrading. Such a refinement could be
incorporated if required, again at the cost of increased complexity.
The name, length, type and terrain of each road evaluated would be entered at the head of the model input
& evaluation table as shown in the annex.
b)     Vehicle Operating Costs.
The model assumes that all vehicles using the road could be classified into one of four categories: cars,
pick-ups, medium trucks or heavy trucks. Other categories, such as buses, could be added as necessary. It
is recommended that the VOCs for each vehicle category on each type and condition of road together with
the corresponding potential VOC savings be estimated by the central authorities and provided to the gminas
as standard model input. The estimated standard VOCs would be entered into the model with the
corresponding savings calculated automatically as shown in the attached input table.
As traffic trends and prospects are likely to vary widely in the case of individual roads, it would not be
practicable to provide any standard central input for traffic forecasts. These would have to be carried out
and put into the model by the gminas themselves, in terms of vehicles per day (vpd), on the basis of local
knowledge and observations. Some general guidelines for traffic forecasting could, however, be supplied by
the central authorities. Traffic should be forecast in terms of the four vehicle categories distinguishing
between normal traffic (that which would have materialised even without the upgrading) and generated
traffic (that which would be encouraged to use the road as a result of the improvements or the induced
economic activity of the area served). Account should be taken of the estimated construction period of the
road, allowing for a gradual build-up of generated traffic over this period. If the improvements had the
effect of diverting traffic from other routes, it would be possible to introduce a further category for diverted
traffic but it is not considered that the probability or data availability would be sufficient in the present case
to justify such a refinement: it is recommended that such traffic be classed as generated traffic. Traffic
- 103 -



forecasts should be entered into the model as shown in the input table; the model would automatically
calculate the totals for normal, generated and total traffic.
The corresponding annual VOCs, reflecting the type of the original road, its length and terrain traversed,
are calculated automatically by the model from the above data inputs. The estimates for each vehicle type
and in total, distinguishing between normal and generated traffic, would be as shown in the input table.
The respective total columns for the generated and normal traffic are input automatically into the final
evaluation table as shown. The total traffic column is for the evaluator's information only.
c)     Road Maintenance Costs.
As with VOCs, it would be possible for the central authorities to estimate unit maintenance costs for the
different types and terrains of rural road for distribution to the gminas as standard model inputs. However,
in view of probable wide local variations in labour costs, availability of materials, etc. it is not considered
that road maintenance costs are as amenable as VOCs to standardized treatment. The model assumes,
therefore, that the maintenance cost estimates would be input by the gminas themselves as shown in the
attached input table. Again, central guidelines could be provided. If thought desirable in the interests of
consistency, centrally estimated recurrent and periodic unit costs and corresponding phasing for the new
bitumen roads, where local variations would be less, could be incorporated into the model. The estimation
of the "without project" maintenance costs should remain a matter for the gminas.
The model calculates the stream of total maintenance savings automatically and transfers it directly to the
final evaluation table.
d)     Road Construction Costs.
The model assumes that the estimated road construction costs will be input directly by the gmina. It
provides for a construction period of up to two years, as this is considered to be adequate for rural roads
under the PIP, but a longer potential construction period could be incorporated. As no further processing of
the construction cost estimates is required before the final evaluation, the figures are input directly into the
final evaluation table as shown.
Again, standardized unit construction costs for the different terrains could be provided, but these may not
be sufficiently responsive to local variations. Central support should, therefore, probably be limited to
general guidelines.
For reasons explained in Section 1 above, the residual value of the investment at the end of the evaluation
period is not taken into account in the model.
e)     Economic Evaluation.
The economic return on the road investment in question is calculated automatically without further input
into the final evaluation table, on the basis of the data previously entered. The return is calculated in terms
of the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) and the net present value (NPV) with a discount rate
estimated to reflect the current opportunity cost of capital in Poland. As noted above a separate variant of
the model is used for each of the six possible combinations of road type and terrain.
Sensitivity testing of the returns can be easily applied by changing the appropriate variables in the
respective tables, e.g. the vpd estimates in the traffic forecast table or the construction cost in the final
- 104-



evaluation table.
The EIRRs and NPVs of the respective evaluations would provide the central authorities with initial
criteria for the allocation of funds amongst the competing road projects. Final decisions may take into
account extraneous factors outside the scope of this simple economic evaluation model.
3.     Working Example of the Model.
a)     Road Conditions.
The functioning of the model is demonstrated by applying it to a hypothetical road project, Abc - Xyz, to
produce the attached input & evaluation table. It is assumed that the existing road is a 12 km gravel road
traversing flat terrain. These characteristics are entered into the cells indicated at the head of Sheet I of the
model. Care must be taken to enter the road length into the correct cell as the final evaluation calculation
draws on this figure as a data input. The "Type" and "Terrain" entries are for information, indicating which
of the six possible model variants is being used, but do not otherwise affect the functioning of the model.
b)     Vehicle Operating Costs.
The standard VOCs, which would be centrally provided, are based on rough orders of magnitude in this
example and are shown on Sheet 1. For the hypothetical Abc - Xyz case, the model variant relating to
gravel roads in flat terrain would be used, with calculations derived from VOCs, with and without the
project, for each of the four vehicle types on flat, gravel roads. It is assumed, in the standardized estimates,
that, for all types of road, existing and new, they would be 10%, 20%, 30% and 40% higher respectively
for undulating terrain, with the same percentage increases applied to the resulting figures for mountainous
terrain. (These percentage variations have not been built-in to the model but would be calculated manually
by the central authorities: automatic calculation could, if required, be incorporated). Corresponding
savings for the two types of existing road are calculated automatically in the standardized data, the gravel
alternative being the relevant one in this example.
Regarding the traffic forecasts, vpds for each of the four vehicle types has been arbitrarily estimated for
2001 in this example as it is assumed that there would be no VOC savings for 2000. For purposes of
simplicity, it is assumed that subsequent annual growth would be 3.5% for all normal traffic and 6.0% for
all generated traffic throughout the evaluation period. In reality the forecast pattern of traffic growth is
likely to be more complex than this. It is assumed that the potential generated traffic would be phased in
gradually over the first three years of the project period, proportionately to the length of new road
completed. The totals for normal, generated and all traffic are calculated automatically. It is assumed, in
accordance with standard theory, that the potential VOC benefits to generated traffic would be 50% of
those to corresponding normal traffic.
The corresponding unit VOC savings, grossed-up to an annual basis for the entire road length, are
calculated automatically by the model at the end of Sheet 1. The benefits are assumed to commence in
2001 since, as there would, theoretically, be some VOC benefits on the partially completed road in 2000,
these are likely to be offset by delays caused by construction works.
c)     Road Maintenance Costs.
Road maintenance costs are estimated on Sheet 2 of the input table. It is assumed, again somewhat
arbitrarily, that maintenance costs in 2000 on the existing road without the project would increase at a
- 105 -



constant annual rate of 2.5% throughout the evaluation period. In reality, costs would probably begin to
rise exponentially to a point where some rehabilitation works could no longer be avoided, but a simplified
approach, similar to the above, should be adequate for the PIP evaluations. More realistically, the
recurrent maintenance costs of the new road are estimated to remain constant throughout with periodic
maintenance every fifth year. The resulting savings, calculated automatically, allow for a partial
realization of the benefits during the first two years of road construction.
d)    Road Construction Costs.
It is assumed that the 12 km road will be constructed over a. two year period with two thirds of the work
being completed in the first year. (To illustrate the negligible influence of residual value in the adopted
evaluation approach, it should be noted that, even if the new road investment were estimated to have a
working life of 30 years, the effect of discounting at the project rate of 12% over the 20 year evaluation
period would reduce its residual value to less than 4% of the original capital outlay, raising the estimated
EIRR insignificantly from 20.0% to 20.2%).
e)    Economic Evaluation.
The model automatically estimates the EIRR and NPV of the hypothetical Abc - Xyz road project on Sheet
3. The NPV is estimated using a 12% discount rate assumed to be equivalent to the current opportunity
cost of capital in Poland. It can be seen that, given a 12% reference rate, this project would be clearly
viable with an estimated 20.0% EIRR.
To demonstrate how the model can be used for sensitivity testing, construction costs 20%
higher can be substituted in column I of the evaluation table: this automatically
recalculates the EIRR at 16.0%. Similarly, raising the forecast growth rate for normal
traffic from 3.5% to 5.0% on Sheet I would increase the EIRR to 21.4%.
-106-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
2003
,.,.:.:'"':,s. .'.'.:.::Rr'.8 :.':.    *. 
~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                    ...*. .~~~~~~~~~~~~....
Year 1        Year 2     Year 3     Year 4           .Year  Year6     Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            12.4      121.2        98.0       52.2        0.0         0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs               7.1        7.7        4.7         2.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total ProjectCosts            13.5       128.9       102.7      54.7         0.0        0.0        0.0
Front-end fee      1.2        0.0       4.5         2.3         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               14.7      128.9       102.7       54.7         0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDeIDA                    6.8        47.4       43.0        22.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                  7.9        80.9       57.5        31.0        0.0        0.0         
Central                  0.6        8.7         9.0        7.7        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               7.3       72.2        48.5       23.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                                                  0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.6        2.2         0.9        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      14.7       128.9      102.7       54.7         0.0       0.0         0.0
Yearl      Year2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year6       Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
LTotal Financing               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
FFinancing
IBRD/IDA                    0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
Co-financiers: EU; Others: Service Providers.
-107-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines:
Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services,
technical assistance and training will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines -
Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents,
Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Goods and
technical assistance to be financed by the co-financiers will be procured in accordance with
the public procurement regulations or the regulations and practices of each co-financier. A
general procurement notice will be published in the Development Business of the UN in
April 2000.
Procurement responsibilities
The program components will be implemented at different levels: central, voivodship
(region), powiat (county) and gmina (municipality) levels, as shown below. The agencies
listed below will be responsible for procurement under each component.
A.    Micro-credit
-National Economy Bank (BGK) in close collaboration with MOLSP and the relevant voivodship
self-governments
B.    Human Capital Development
-VPIUs with the help of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development
-Voivodship Labor Offices and Ministry of Labor and Social Policy for sub-component B- I (Labor
Redeployment)
-Ministry of National Education for the internet based resource center; VPIUs; and gminas with help of the
VPIUs for school rehabilitation and transportation under sub-component B-2 (Education)
-Ministry of Interior and Public Administration for sub-component B-3 (Institution Building)
C.    Infrastructure
-gminas and powiats with the help of VPIUs
-PCU for TA and training
D.    Program Management
-PCU in the FAPA
Most of the proposed implementation agencies that will help the beneficiaries (gminas and powiats)
- 108 -



have experience in public procurement and procurement either under EU-Phare or bilateral funding
such as British Know-How Fund, USAID, etc. They have staff experienced in different aspects of
the procurement cycle, including technical and legal aspects. All the agencies operate in a public and
private procurement environment which is transparent and competitive. The most important
weakness of all the agencies is that they have little experience in international procurement, since the
procurement under the projects assisted by EU-Phare, USAID and BKHF, was normally small in
value and was conducted according to public procurement law. Because of this, the implementation
agencies have been placed in the average risk category.
Action Plan for Capacity Strengthening
In light of the risk-analysis above, recommendations have been made to strengthen the capacity of
the implementation agencies (see Section 2 of this Annex).
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, works, and services. Procurement needs of Components A, B
and D have been identified and included in the detailed procurement plan which is part of the Project
Implementation Plan. A detailed procurement plan for these needs is prepared and included in the
Operational Manual. However, Component C - Infrastructure - which will aim at fulfilling the needs of
gminas and powiats will be demand-driven, except for some sub-projects which have been identified and
specified in the procurement plan. During project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated
every six months.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods
The following thresholds are proposed (the aggregates are given in the footnotes to the procurement table):
(i)   ICB for works = US$3 million or more per contract
ICB for goods = US$200,000 or more per contract
(ii)    NCB for works - Less than US$3 million per contract
NCB can be conducted in accordance with the Unlimited Tendering procedure, subject to the condition that
a point-system of evaluation will not be used; domestic preference will not be applied, international bidders
will not be excluded from bidding, and no restriction will be imposed on the use of foreign labor (except for
unskilled labor) and materials; and the NCB bidding documents will be agreed with the Bank before use.
(iii)   Minor Works = Less than US$200,000 per contract. A list of minor works contracts will be
published for expression of interest in participation in these tenders. All contractors responding to the
advertisement at any time will be invited to bid.
(iv)   International Shopping = Less than US$200,000 per contract; and
(v)    National Shopping = Less than US$50,000 per contract (can be conducted according to the
procedure called Request for Quotations under the Polish Public Procurement Law, subject to a minimum
of three quotations from domestic suppliers);
(vi)   Traditional purchasing practices shall apply to the projects to be funded with the
proceeds of the micro credit-line. Such purchases are not to exceed US$ 1,000 each. The total amount
- 109 -



allocated to the credit-line is US$15.26 million. However, the necessary controls will be put in place to
ensure that the credit amounts are used for the purpose intended.
Procurement of Consultants
Consultants Services will be procured through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures.
Such contracts will be advertised in the Development Business and in a national newspaper for expression
of interest, from which a shortlist will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000, the
short list may consist entirely of national firms, at least three. Foreign firms, if interested, will be allowed to
participate. Contracts for auditing and financial management will be procured through the Least Cost
Selection method (LCS). Consultants contracts for training and study tours will be procured following a
detailed training program that will be submitted to the Bank for its approval every six months during
project implementation. Contracts for assignments where quality is of prime importance, such as legal
advice, etc., will be awarded through Quality Based Selection (QBS) in which both technical and financial
proposals will be invited in two separate envelopes. Only the technical proposals will be opened first and
evaluated. The financial proposal of the firm that will score the highest in its technical proposal will be
opened and the contract price negotiated. Individuals experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of
the Consultants Guidelines. Candidatures will be advertised, and selection will be made on the basis of
comparison of qualification experience. The aggregates are included in the footnotes to Table A.
Procurement under Labor Redeployment Fund
Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund will be exclusively for services based on criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia (i) the type of services to be provided, (ii) the
agencies eligible to provide said services, and (iii) the eligible costs that will be reimbursed in the service
delivery contracts as described in Annex 2 of the PAD, and further defined and discussed in the operational
manual. Individual contracts for services such as employment counseling, retraining and small business
assistance are generally not expected to exceed US$70,000. The Bank's no-objection is required for
contracts exceeding US$70,000. Service contracts for small business incubators are not expected to exceed
US$250,000, and will be subject to NCB (see subpara (ii) under the thresholds for procurement methods).
Procurement under the Labor Redeployment Fund will be carried out by the Voivodship Labor Offices and
generally be carried out on a service delivery contract basis (except for the incubators as noted above).
Voivodship Labor Offices will have to seek the no-objection of the project team located in the Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy for projects over US$35,000.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review Thresholds
(i)    All ICB contracts for goods and works
(ii)    First NCB from each implementation agency
(iii)   First IS and NS contract from each agency
(iv)   All consultant contracts US$200,000 or more each (Full Review)
(v)    All contracts with consulting firms estimated to US$100,000 or more each (Partial Review)
(vi)   All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more each
Post Review Ratio. One in ten contracts.
- 110-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years. The anticipated
completion date is 01/31/04 and the closing date is 07/31/04. Disbursements will follow
normal Bank procedures and relevant Polish regulations and will be made against eligible
expenditures. Annex 5 shows the estimated disbursements during the life of the project and
table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) goods contracts estimated to cost
less than US$200,000 each; (b) works contracts less than US$3,000,000 each; (c)
consultants contracts with firms less than US$100,000; (d) for services of individuals
costing US$25,000 equivalent or less each; and (e) all contracts under the credit-line. Full
documentation in support of SOE will be retained by each implementation agency for at
least two years after the closing date of the credit. This information will be made available
for review by Bank missions during project supervision and by auditors, the minimum
application size for payments directly from the grant account or for issuance of Special
Commitments is 20 percent of the special account authorization.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, the MOF will open a Special Account before loan
effectiveness and maintain it until project completion. The PCU will be responsible for the
overall management of the Special Account, and for submitting replenishment applications
and fully reconciled statements of expenditure to the Bank. The Special account will be
drawn upon to meet payments to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project.
The special account will be established in the National Bank of Poland on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank
The initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to EUR5 million. The initial
allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of EURI0 million once an
aggregate disbursement of US$20 million is reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal
applications. Replenishment applications should be submitted by the PCU on a monthly
basis and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents. Project accounts will be operated for discrete activities and funded from the
Special Account based on disbursement applications signed by the authorized officials.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement      Method
Expenditure     ICB          NCB             Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
Category
1. Works                                     7.36                    7.36
(3.09)a/                (3.09)
- 111 -



2. Goods       2.90                       3.40         4.23       10.53
(2.90) c/                 (3.40)b/                (6.30)
3. Services                               23.01        6.21      29.22
and Training                              (23.01)d/              (23.01)
4. Rural                                  54.54        122.85    177.39
Infrastructure                            (54.54)e/              (54.54)
- Demand
Driven
5. Credit lines                           10.42        3.47      13.89
(10.42)               (10.42)
6. Labor                                  19.87        20.84     40.71
Redeployment                              (19.87)f/              (19.87)
- Demand
Driven
7. Operating                              1.99                   1.99
Costs                                     (1.57)g/               (1.57)
8. Grants                                              2.90      2.90
9. Recurrent                                            16.36     16.36
Costs and
O&M
Total        3.84                      119.65        176.86    300.35
(3.84)                    (114.96)               (118.80)
Figures may not match due to rounding.
NBF = Non Bank Financed
Notes:
a/ Minor works for the rehabilitation of a large number of schools in
several voivodships.
b/ Six IS contracts (US$0.76 million); two NS contract (US$0.05 million)
and contracts (US$2.59 million) for the purchase of instructional
materials, textbooks, etc., for a large number of schools in different
voivodships, which will be demand driven. The procurement plan will be
subject to bank's prior review.
c/ Three ICB contracts ($2.90 million)
d/ 14 QCBS contracts (US$15.09 million); one QBS contract (US$0.20
million); different training programs estimated at US$6.38 million to be
incurred in accordance with a bi-annual training program to be prepared
by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank for prior approval; one LCS
(US$0.63 million); and individual consultants for PCU (US$0.71 million)
e/ Rural Infrastructure Component - Demand Driven. MW will apply for
CW contracts estimated at less than US$200,000 each; NCB less than
- 112-



US$3.0 million. Procurement plans for each beneficiary will be subject to
Bank's prior review.
f/ Labor deployment component is demand-driven. Procurement
procedures described in the text above will apply. Procurement plans will
be subject to Bank's prior review.
g/ Operating costs will be incurred in accordance with an annual budget
that will be prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank every
year before any expenditures are incurred.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)
Consultant
Services
Expenditure    QCBS    QBS        SFB   LCS          CQ        Other    N.B.F.   Total
Category                                                                          Cost
A. Firms       15.09     0.20            0.63                            4.02     19.94
(15.09)   (0.20)          (0.63)                                   (15.92)
B.                                                             0.71      0.24     0.95
Individuals                                                    (0.71)             (0.71)
Total          15.09     0.20            0.63                  0.71      4.26     20.89
(15.09)   (0.20)          (0.63)                (0.71)            (16.63)
I\ Including contingencies
Note:                    QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 113-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                           Contracts
Threshold            Procurement         Subject to
Expenditure Category        (US$ thousands)      Method               Prior
Review
(iJS$
millions)
1. Works                    >3.000               ICB                  0
<3.000              NCB                  0
2. Goods                    >0.200               ICB                  2.900
<0.200              IS                   0.400
<0.050              NS                   0.050
3. Services                 >0.100               QCBS/QBS/CQ          15.92
>0.025               Ind                 0.710
|Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  19.98
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 mnonths (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits) for the first year and then every six months.
- 114-



Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods    ICB         NCB        IS         NS        Minor       Other      Percenta
and                                                  Works       methods   ge of
Civil                                                                      loan
Works                                                                       amount
subject
to prior
review
Procure    W >       W <        G <        G<        W <
ment      $3.00      $3.00      $0.200     $0.050    $0.200
threshol                        ($0.760)   ($0.050)  (S7.800)
ds:
Individu   G >
al and    $0.200
aggregat  ($2.900)
e
Prior     All        -          First of    First of   N/a                  $3.35
Review    ($2.900)              each       each                             2.8%
agency    agency
($0.400)   ($0.050)
Consulta   QCBS      QBS        Fixed      LCS       Qualificati  Individua
nts                             Budget               ons        Is
Procure   ($15.09)   ($0.20)    n/a        ($0.63)   N/a         ($0.710)
ment
method
threshol
ds
Prior     All        All       |           All                   All terms   $16.63
Review    ($15.09)   ($0.20)               ($0.63)               of         (14%)
reference
($0.710)
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
requirement review
- 115-



Capacity of the implementation agency to conduct procurement has been assessed. As a result,
the following action plan will be implemented:
A procurement book containing the guidelines, templates of tender notices, standard
bidding documents, evaluation formats, sample invitation to quote, request for proposals,
standard consultant contracts (for large and small assignments) should be prepared (both in
English and to the maximum extent possible in Polish), and made available immediately to all
implementation agencies so that their procurement staff will start familiarizing themselves with
the Bank procurement policies, procedures and documents. These documents will also be
provided on a diskette;
Before loan effectiveness but any time after negotiations a project launch workshop will
be held. In this workshop, sufficient time will be devoted to procurement to discuss the
procurement methods, thresholds, review levels, standard bidding documents, invitation to
quote, request for proposals, etc., to be used under the project. Prior to the above mentioned
workshop, each implementation agency will identify a procurement expert with educational
background and experience satisfactory to the Bank. This person will participate in the
workshop. Depending on the volume and complexity of procurement to be handled by an
implementation agency, this staff will attend the procurement training in ILO Turin or some
other suitable training program. This training shall be completed, preferably before the loan
effectiveness.
Country Procurement Assessment      Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Report or Country Procurement       actions of the first year ready by negotiations
Strategy Paper status:              Yes [] No [x]
March 15, 1996
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date    Estimated date    Indicate if there    Domestic     Domestic
of Project       of publication of  is procurement    Preference for  Preference
Launch           General          subject to        Goods            for Works, if
Workshop         Procurement      mandatory SPN                       applicable
04/00            Notice            in Development   Yes [x]           Yes [ ]
03/00            Business         No  []            No   [x]
Yes [XI
No []
Retroactive financing              Advance procurement
Yes  [ ]        No  [x]           Yes [ ]       No [x]        Explain
Explain:
- 116-



Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be
established at the PCU which will collect and keep up to-date all procurement data. The PCT
will use this data in progress reports to the Bank.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: None
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project: Name: Naushad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist    Ext:
32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: The Resident Mission
does not have an accredited procurement staff. However, the project officer in the RM is
familiar with procurement. She will serve as a liaison between the procurement staff at
headquarters and the beneficiary procurement staff.
-117-



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                                  Amount  Financing
in        Percentage
US$mill
ion
Goods:                                                6.30      100% of foreign
A. Equipment for Service Providers; B 1. Goods for the Labor    expenditures,
Redeployment Fund; B2. Educational Material and Equipment       100% of local
Resource Center (equipment), Software, School                  expenditures
Transportation (buses); B3. Office Technology; D. Equipment     (ex-factory cost
for PCU                                                         and 80% local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally)
Civil Works:                                          57.63     35%
B2. School Rehabilitation; C. Rural Infrastructure
Investments
Consultant services and training:                     22.38      100%
A. Operating Expenses for Service Providers, Fee to Service
Providers, Training and Technical Assistance to Service
Providers, Government Officials and Final Beneficiaries;
B 1. Technical Assistance and Training for the Labor Market
Information Surveys and the Labor Redeployment Fund;
B2. Training for Teachers, Training in Information
Technology, Monitoring and Evaluation of the
Sub-component; B3. Technical Assistance and Training to
Local Administrations, Technical Assistance for the Capacity
Building, Beneficiary Evaluation, Study on Distance Learning,
Promotion and Dissemination;
C. Training and Technical Assistance to VPIUs and
Self-Government Officials, Evaluation Study;
D. Staff of the PCU
Audits                                                0.63      84%
Operating Costs: (*)                                  1.57      85% until
Operating Costs for the PCU, the Project Teams in the Line      US$800,000
Ministries, and the VPIUs.                                      have been
disbursed, 50%
thereafter
Labor Redeployment Fund                               19.87     49%
Credit Line                                           10.42     75%
-118-



Front end fee                                         1.20
Total Project Costs                                   120.00
Total                                                 120.00
(*) Operating costs to be incurred in accordance with an annual budget to be prepared and submitted to the
Bank for its prior approval.
- 119-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.........   ' "ta                                  Pi....... .. .s  
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12
First Bank mission (identification)             06/30/98                      06/30/98
Appraisal mission departure                     07/12/99                      07/12/99
Negotiations                                    11/02/99                      1 1/02/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/01/2000                    05/01/2000
Prepared by:
Government of Poland
Preparation assistance:
EU DG Agriculture, Delegation of the EU in Warsaw, USAID, UKKHF, NGOs.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .:.                ........,,',.'        ........' ' ' 
Piotr Wilczynski                  Task Team Leader
Michel Debatisse                  Agriculture Policy Specialist
Joseph Goldberg                   Sector Leader
Milena Messori                    Operations Analyst
Jennifer Ngaine                   Project Assistant
Amy Evans                         Environmental Specialist
Olgun Ersenkal                    Infrastructure
Barbara Letachowicz               Infrastructure
Christoph Pusch                   Infrastructure
Ernesto Cuadra                    Education
Antonio Lim                       Education
David Fretwell                    Labor Redeployment
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson            Education/Labor Redeployment
Lorenz Pohlemeier                 Institution Building
Rodrigo Chaves                    Microcredit
Saul Schor                        Microcredit
Sophie Wille                      Microcredit
Richard Lacroix                   Private Sector Development
Mariusz Safin                     Economist
Alberto Valdes                    Economist
Naushad Khan                      Procurement Officer
Joseph Formoso                    Disbursement Officer
Aly Abu-Akeel                     Lawyer
Ranjan Ganguli                    Financial Management Specialist
Alexander Grad                    Project Advisor
- 120 -



Wojchiech Daniel                   Consultant/Institution Building
Ewa Pasiciel                       Implementation Specialist
Ryszard Malarski                   Implementation Specialist
Janusz Wisniewski                  Manager of Local Consultant Team
Elena Nesterova                    Budget Assistant
Malgorzata Garlicka                Budget Assistant
Ewelina Pusz                       Operations Assistant
Support Staff of the World Bank Office
in Warsaw
- 121 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP attached.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Assessment of Gmina Education Needs
Criteria for Identifying Areas to be Supported by the Rural Development Project
Demographic and Territorial Conditions of Economic Transformations in Rural Areas
Ersenkal, Olgun, Regional Development Agencies Managerial Capacity Assessment
Feasibility study for Transportation Sub-projects
Ganguli, Ranjan, Financial Management Assessment of Six Selected Regional Development Agencies
How to select a safe haven for a profitable investment in rural area - a demographic point of view
Kahn, Naushad, Procurement Assessment of the Regional Development Agencies
Poland - Complying with EU Environmental Legislation. World Bank Discussion Paper, April 1999.
Report on the evaluation of the implementation and effects of the ASAL-300 program
C. Other
Feasibility Study Options for Busing Students to School. Report Prepared by Development
Group International, INC. for the World Bank, July 1999.
National Program for Water and Wastewater Investments Necessary to Comply with the EU
Environmental Legislation. Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, April
1999.
OECD Report on Pricing of Water Services. Paris, 1987.
OECD Report on Water Subsidies and the Environment. Paris, 1997
Setting Tariffs for Water and Wastewater. Draft report submitted to the Council for Water Sector
Regulations. Research Triangle Institute, Warsaw, January 1999.Status of Environmental Protection in
Poland, Report prepared by Dr. Stanislaw Wajda and Mr. Andrzej Rudlicki for the World Bank, 24 May
1999.Technical Infrastructure Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Information on the Conditions of
Rural Technical Infrastructure in 1997, Warsaw, May 1998.
*Including electronic files
- 122 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA          Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
PL-PE-55988     1999 GOVERNMENT OF POLAND         WHOLESALE MKT. IIt 1 12                                 0.00        0.00       10 63       1 60       0 00
PL-PE-57957     1999 GOVERNMENT OF POLAND         HARD COALSECAL                            30000         0.00        000       291 13       0.00       0.00
PL-PE-8le6      1999 POMORSKIE HURTOWE            WHLSLE MARKETS PRJ I                       15 90        0.00        0 00         7 17      1 60       &00
PL-PE-35082     1998 CENTRUM                      MUNICIPAL FINANCE                          22 00        0.00        0.00        1968      10 16       C) 00
PL-PE-53796     1998 BISE AND PBK                 FLOOD EMERGENCY                           200 00        0.00        000        1o0 51    102 33       0.00
PL-PE-8593     1998 GOVT. OF POLAND               ROADS II                                  300.00        0.00        000       28563       23.95       000
PL-PE-36061     1997 MINISTRYOFTRANSPORT          PORTACCESS& MGMT                           6700         0.00        000         5064       7.49       0.00
PL-PE-8595      1996 GOVERNMENT OF POLAND         BIELSKO-BIALA WATER                        21 50        0.00        0 00        11 79      9.35       0.00
PL-PE-8604      1996 BIELSKO-BIALAAQUAS.A         POWERTRANSMISSION                         16000         0.00        0.00       9693       47.56       (G00
PL-PE-8614      1995 POLISH POWER GRID CO         KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY                       45.00        0.00        0.00       24 44      23.53       0.00
PL-PE-8610     '994 KATOWICE DISTRICT HEATING  FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                         14600         0.00       4200          246      22.45       2.45
PL-PE-8599     1993 GOVT OF POLAND                ROADS                                     150.00        0.00        0.00         2.00      2 00       0.00
PL-PE-6571      1991 REPUBLIC OF POLAND           PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT                      280.00        000        47.20       63.75     111 04      63.76
PL-PE-8576      1991 REPUBLIC OF POLAND           HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT                      285.00        0.00       8250         1210     14954       12.04
DISTRICT HEATING ENTITY
Total:     2003.52        0.00       171 78     1039.04    512 60      76 25
- 123 -



POLAND
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1990               EDB-Piotr Ostrow               0.05    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.05    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991               CHEMAGEV                       0.23    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.23    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992               Philips Poland                 2.50    0.00     0.00     0.00    2.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993               BONA                            1.30    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993               Huta Warszawa                 28.13    4.49     0.00     0.00   12.23    3.75     0.00    0.00
1993               PEF-Poland                     0.00    0.00     2.17     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.67    0.00
1993               Sandoglass                    13.91    8.27    0.00      5.02   13.91    8.27     0.00    5.02
1994               Peters                         5.58     1.00    0.00    0.00    5.58    0.88      0.00    0.00
1995               Globi Retailing                0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1995               Nesky                          0.00    1.87    0.50      0.00    0.00    1.87     0.50    0.00
1995/97/98         Intercell                      0.00    0.00    11.51     0.00    0.00    0.00    11.51    0.00
1996               Baltic Malt                    5.07    0.00      1.94    0.00    5.07    0.00     1.87    0.00
1996               Pam Bank                      15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1996/97            Gaspol                         0.00    0.00    5.98      0.00    0.00    0.00     5.98    0.00
1997               CPF                            0.00    0.00     1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.99    0.00
1997               Norgips                        10.57    0.00    0.00    19.89   10.57    0.00     0.00   19.89
1998               BWP S.A.                       0.00    0.00     1.75     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.75    0.00
1998               Global Hotels                  0.00    0.00    3.60      0.00    0.00    0.00     2.67    0.00
Total Portfolio:        82.34    15.63    39.05    24.91   56.44    14.77    36.94   24.91
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 124 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
POLAND: POLAND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eurooe &    UDoer-                                          9/22/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central   middle.
Poland       Asia   Income        Development diamond
1998
Pooulation mid-vear emillions)                           38 7        473       588                   Lifa expectancy
G NP ner canita (Atlas method USS)                      3 900      2 190      4 860
G N P (Atlas method. USS billions)                      150.9      1 039     2 882
Averaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation 1%)                                            01         0 1        1.4
Laborforcel%)                                             08         06         20      GNP                                 Gross
Most recent estimate tlatest vear available. 1992-98)                                                                     primary
Povertv (% of DoDulatlon below national Dovertv line)      24
LJrban noulation 1% of total DoDulation)                  65         68        77
I Ife a,.netan-v at birth (vears)                          73         63        70
Infant mortalitv [Der 1.000 live births)                   10         23        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% Of DoDulation)                                          79
Ililteracv 1% of oooulation ace 15+)                        0          4        11
Gross orimarv enro/lment 1% of school-aoe DoDulation)      96        100       108               Poland
Male                                                     97       101                          Upper-middle-income group
FPm-le                                                  96         90
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                                                 147 9      157 5
Gross domestic investmentl/GDP                                      24.7       27 0                      Trd
Exoorts of aoods and services/GDP                                   25.7       207                        rade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                                          20 4       18 7
Gross national savincs/GDP                                          20 4       22.6
Current account balance/GDP                                          -2 9      -4.4
Interest oavmentslGDP                                                0 9        1 1       omestc               o       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                                      27 0       30 5      Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                                           7 9
Present value of debt/GDP                                           24 2
Present value of debt/exsorts                                      110 7
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
laveraoe annual orowthl
GDP                                              3 6      6 8        4 8        52                Poland
GNP Der caoita                                   3 5      6 7        5.3        50                 Upper-middle-income group
ExDorts of ooods and services                  13 5      12 2        9 2        8 4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDPI                                                                               30
Anridiulti-r                                                          5 
Industrv                                                            37 5                 20       
Manufacturino                                                     22 5                 15 
Services                                                            56 9                 0 '
Private consumoton                                                  63 5                 10     93   94   95   95   97   95
General oovernment consumotion                                      161                                  GDI It /GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                                       30 0
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averaae annual arowth)
Aoriculture                                               -1 0       0 6
ondi.strv                                                 44        10R
Manufacturino                                                                         20
Services
Private consum/tion                                       42         6 9        42        . 
General covernment consumDtion                            2 6        3 5                 o
Gross domestic investment                                 8 9       20 8       14 1             93   94   95   96   97   98
Imoorts of aoods and services                            18 8       21 4       17 9                     Exporls     '  Imports
Gross national oroduct                                    3 7        6 8        5 4
Note. 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaoe If data are missina the diamond will
he inr.omnleet
- 125-



Poland
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                 1977      1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%h)
(% change)
Consumer prices                                               .       14.9      11.8
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..14.0                       12.0      30
20
Government finance                                                                        1o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       a
Current revenue                                     .         .       24.1      23.0              93    94    95    96    97    9S
Current budget balance                             ..        ..       -1 0      -0.7                      GDP deflator    r0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                      ..       -2.7      -2.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1977      1987       1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..         .    25,751    28,229      50,000
n.a.                                                                                    40,000
n.a.
Manufactures                                                ..    20,040    22,905      30,000                          *_1'*
Total imports (cif)                                          ..   42,308    47,054       20,000
Food                                                        ..     2,894     2.968            ,
Fuel and energy                                                    3,710     2,964      10,00  [,                        . *
Capital goods                                               ..     6,485     7,356          0
02   93   94   95   96   07  90
Exoort orice index 11995=1001                                         122        130
Imnort orice index (1995=1001                                         126        129                 SExports       *tmports
Terms n ftrade 1995=100)                                               97        111
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                  1977      1987       1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio I%l
Exports of goods and services                                ..    30,953    33,799       6 -
Imports of goods and services                                      41,968    48,028       4
Resource balance                                             ..   -11,015   -14,229
Net income                                                   ..      -458       -567      2.
Net current transfers                               .                1,150     1,942          924    95
Current account balance'                                      .    -4,312    -6,858       -2   0    E                      0
Financing items (net)                                        ..     7,902    12,566       -4
Changes in net reserves                                      ..    -3,590    -5,708      -s
Memo:
Reserves includino oold IUSS millions)                             20 670    27 382
Conversion rate (DEC. /ocal/USS)                    ..       ..        3.2       3.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
(USS millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, it9s (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..  42,603     39,889    48,093
IBRD                                             ..        0      2,078     2,157                          A 2,157
IDA                                                        0          0         0                 G 3.812 DA 040
Total debt service                                  .    2,060      2,562
IBRD                                                       0        297       321
IDA                                              .         0          0          0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                            0        431                   F: 18,1660
Official creditors                                      -232       -140         E- 23,018
Private creditors                                       -246        934
Foreign direct investment                         .       12      4,908
Portfolio equity                                           0        945
World Bank program                                                                        A- IBRD                         E- Bilateral
Commitments                                                0          0         20      A - IDA    D - Other multitater.l   F - Private
Disbursements                                              0        239       153       c - MF                          G - Short-ter
Principal repayments                                       0        155       174
Net flows                                                  0         84        -21
Interest payments                                          0        142       147
Net transfers                                              0        -58       -168
Development Economics                                                                                                         9122199
-126-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
I .    The Social Assessment (SA) consisted of two main activities: (a) a collection of case studies,
expert consultations, and position papers focusing on the three topical areas of local governance, education,
and employment; and (b) the start of a system of monitoring and evaluation of primary schools in two
voivodship. The SA report focused on the three main themes of local governance, education, and
employment. Fieldwork in the form of in-depth interviews and participatory observation was carried out in
three rural towns in the Southeastern voivodship of Podkarpacki by a network of researchers highly
respected in the fields of anthropology and sociology; students; and community field workers and NGO
representatives with expertise in rural development and village life. The second activity involved a
collaboration with the Curator's Office in the Podkarpacki voivodship to build upon, and standardize,
existing data collection efforts taking place at individual schools with the aim to assess how they are faring
before and after consolidation.
A. study on local governance, education, and employment
Research Questions
1.    The research questions for the study revolve around three sets of issues: (a) in the area of local
governance, what are the priorities of the gmina and its capacity for long-term investment planning? To
what extent do residents participate both formally and informally in local decision-making?; (b) in the area
of education, what is the capacity for officials to implement the new school network and carry out other
areas of the educational reform? Do parents, teachers, and school administrators support the decision to
close primary schools in some rural communities and bus children to schools outside the community?; and
(c) in the area of employment, are farmers and unemployed persons interested in receiving job training and
job search assistance? What are the social, cultural and structural constraints to moving into a non-farm
occupation, starting a business, or participating in a retraining course?
2.    In addition to the three topical areas, the SA also attempted to gain an understanding of the social
forces shaping the life of the communities under investigation and of the relationships governing access to
employment, credit, and good schooling.
Methodology
I.    Fieldwork for the case studies was carried out in February 1999. A group of 15 researchers -
sociology students at Warsaw University under the supervision of 3 social scientists - spent a week in three
gmina in the Podkarpacki voivodship conducting interviews, making observations, and collecting
documents. A total of 60 individual interviews were conducted with elected officials, teachers, principals,
labor office employees, and private farmers and their families. The social scientists selected towns and
villages in the gminas of Chmielnik Rzesnowski, Debica, and Kamien for the study sites, places where they
had long established local ties and a feeling of trust among the residents.
2.     The survey data have been compared with, and supplemented by, earlier field surveys in the region,
including surveys of agrarian unemployment conducted in 10 villages in December 1996; official data from
- 127-



the Central Statistical Office and National Labor Office; and program documents prepared by government
experts, academic professors, and NGO leaders active in rural areas.
Findings
Local governance
].     During the Solidarity Movement, from 1989-1993, collective protest was one of the main ways
citizens made their voices heard. At its height in 1992, 752,472 people participated in strikes and
2,360,392 work days were lost. Farmers and agricultural workers were the first group to organize
country-wide protests in opposition to government policies. Prompted by its turbulent history and formal
requirements into the European Union, a host of legislation has been enacted in recent years requiring
public consultation in local investment decision-making. USAID has funded a number of
democracy-strengthening initiatives, bolstering the citizen advocacy activities of NGOs and volunteer
organizations, whose number (estimated at 50,000) far exceeds that operating in any other Eastern
European country.
2.     Formal avenues for participation are thus strong in Poland, especially in the urban areas where the
seats of government and the majority of NGOs are located. Some researchers express concern that
democratic processes may function less well in the rural areas. National opinion polls show, however, that
rural residents give higher approval ratings of their local leaders than urban residents. They feel more
recognized and listened to by local leaders and they believe local officials are genuinely interested in the
community's interests. This is likely the result of informal participatory mechanisms characteristic of
village life. Rural residents have easier access to their representatives than urban residents, and may even
know them personally and engage with them in their unofficial capacities.
3.     In principle, village meetings are held twice a year in rural gminas. In the more active gminas, like
Chmielnik, these meetings are very popular and attended by the majority of families. But the meetings
alone are not sufficient in making residents feel they can influence local affairs. In the less active gminas of
Kamien and Debica, there is a general feeling that decisions are taken somewhere "higher up" beyond the
reach of the common resident.
4.     The scope of public participation taking place in a gmina depends almost entirely on the wojt or
mayor's leadership style. The wojt in Chmielnik has been in office for 3 years and is highly respected in
the community. He has been very active in marshaling resources and support for his projects both within
and outside the gmina. Citizens are involved at the very early stages of decision-making and can see the
results of their efforts. In other communities, like Kamien, citizen input is solicited selectively and only
when required. In the community of Jozefow, the wojt and his council exercise tight control, and the
success of citizens' initiatives is tied to their ability to work well with and anticipate the concerns of local
authorities ("All we do, we do with close agreement with the wojt. ") The parish priest also plays a key
role in harnessing public support for investments and in neutralizing any opposing forces. Very often,
citizen initiatives are controlled by a few men, and women's role is confined to assisting the government
rather than challenging it in any way. Fear of outsider status and official retribution limit women's
participation, as well as their perception of what can be accomplished.
5.     Many residents of remote villages are convinced that the wojt is prejudicial toward initiatives
occurring in the more centrally located towns, and tends to select the sites for new infrastructure
investments in the town where the local authority office is located. In poor communities that rely almost
exclusively on central funding for infrastructure investments, the wojt is much more likely to place a
- 128-



greater priority on projects initiated by the central authority, even if they are not community priorities and
opposed by local citizens.
6.    In rural areas interest in local affairs is generally low. Most people focus on earning a living and
supporting their families and so, do not become involved in larger community concerns. Local issues that
provoke interest are those that affect the resident's immediate perception of his or her quality of life.
Infrastructure improvements, such as telephone, water, gas lines, roads, and sewers, are top priorities.
These are also the priorities of local officials.
7.     All gminas are required to have in place by the year 2000 a land use plan and a development
strategy to guide investment. Infrastructure expansion plans are usually the most important part of the
development strategy. Infrastructure investments tend to be financed from the gmina budget, community
contributions, and grants from international donors. In Chmielnik, community collections for the telephone
network, gas lines, and construction of the waste water treatment plant already overstretch the budgets of
most families, who soon will be paying an additional fee to connect their homes to the central sewerage
network.
8.     The capacity for long-term investment planning varies in every gmina. In Chmielnik, the
authorities developed a strategy consistent with past policies and with a broader regional development
strategy. By contrast, in Kamien, the strategy is less well-defined, lacks support from the various political
factions, and relies almost exclusively on external capital. The amount of citizen input into development
strategies also varies. According to Urban Institute studies (1996) on two cities located in the Southeastern
voivodships, Slaskie and Malopolski, the capital improvement, planning and budgeting programs of
Gliwice were developed and implemented without organized public review. In stark contrast, No"y Sacz
prepared its land use plans in consultation with the public, and incorporated 930 of the 1,230 citizens'
comments.
Education
I .   Many local officials feel that the Ministry of Education implemented the educational reforms
without giving sufficient attention as to how gmina officials and teachers will handle their new
responsibilities. In some communities, the reform requires local authorities to "undo" investments made
under the previous educational system, and this is a cause of frustration to the residents who contributed
their time and resources toward the earlier investment. For instance, in Kamien, authorities decided to
close down a newly built primary school and transport students to a larger school located in a nearby town.
However, this school cannot accommodate all the new students and authorities are exploring alternative
buildings.
2.     Local governments are still in the process of developing their plans for the new school network, and
do not have a clear idea how to organize the schools and finance school rehabilitation and student transport.
Issues tend to be more numerous and complex in the larger gminas such as Debica, where the formation of
the school network will involve a fundamental reorganization of the existing school system. It is also more
costly to implement the school network in the larger gminas. Debica authorities estimate that implementing
the standard model advocated by the Ministry of Education would cost 5 times the annual educational
expenditure. Already, the educational expenditure is the largest item in rural gmina budgets and is
supplemented by a very large subsidy by the central government, an amount often exceeding the entire
gmina budget. Local capacity for delivering education thus hinges on subsidies from the center, a burden
gmina officials fear will shift increasingly onto the shoulders of parents.
-129 -



3.    In the majority of instances, the law on educational reform was passed without the prior
consultation of affected communities. In the absence of official communique, the general public, including
teachers and parents, know very little about the reforms and rely on media reports for information.
Curators are now making efforts to consult with parents and teachers. In the Malopolski voivodship, a
school cannot be closed without the approval of parents; however, parental support is not a binding
condition.
4.     Teachers feel ambivalence toward the reforms. While some consider them to be necessary, many
are skeptical as to their future success given the lack of sufficient planning and available financing. Many
teachers worry about losing their jobs and consequently seek retraining to lower their chances of dismissal.
5.     Parents are reluctant to send their children to a school located outside the community. They fear
the commute will expose their children to added stress and to danger, and they do not want to absorb any
additional direct and indirect costs associated with student transport, such as higher school and transport
fees, meal expenses, and lower availability of children for household work.
6.     There is growing opposition in some villages to the closing of primary schools. Residents perceive
the loss of a school as an attack on the importance and status of the local community. Villagers are also
pressing for gymnasia (lower secondary schools) to be opened in small communities. In one isolated
community in Kamien, not only do residents oppose the closing of the primary school, they insist it be
expanded to include a sports gym and dance hall. They are also demanding that a new gymnasium be built
in the community.
Employment
I .    The level of official unemployment in the three gminas is on par with the national average of 10.6
percent; however, a significant share of the population is either underemployed or unemployed and not
counted in official statistics. The highest share of the unemployed are young people with vocational
education. Many of them cannot find a job upon graduation from vocational school and are fully supported
by their parents.
2.     As farms tend to be small in the Southeastern voivodships, the majority of farmers rely on outside
employment to earn a living. In recent years, many farmers have lost their jobs and they cannot afford to
live solely on their farm income. One solution might be to combine farms that are too small for commercial
operation, but many farmers view combining farms as socialistic and they are afraid they will lose control
over their land. There are also legal disincentives against forming cooperatives. Individual farms are not
taxed on sales proceeds, but cooperatives are heavily taxed.
3.     The residents of the three gmina believe that local branches of the county labor offices are
ineffective in finding jobs for the unemployed. Posted vacancies tend to be out-dated, and often require
skills not taught in the village schools or apprenticeships. Many of the vacancies are located in the larger
towns of the county (powiat), and the poorer residents cannot afford to commute or move to another town
where apartment rents are higher. Most recruitment and hiring is done on the basis of personal contacts,
and employers bypass the employment labor offices altogether.
4.     The most serious entrepreneurial constraints include the inability of entrepreneurs to gain formal
access to credit, since real estate is infrequently accepted for SME loans, and the fact that women have
fewer financial resources than men. Other entrepreneurial constraints include: high cost of agricultural
- 130-



inputs; lack of infrastructure, markets, storage, refrigeration, packaging; and low producer prices. Lack of
child care is a severe constraint to women's entrepreneurial and employment opportunities.
5.     Since the transition, women are the first to be let go from their jobs and men are the preferred
employees. Women make up a smaller proportion of the participants in newly established business
associations, and women-owned business comprise only 15 to 30 percent of the loan portfolios of most
banks. No more than one-fourth of newly created firms are owned or managed by a woman.
Impact of the Social Assessment on Project Design and Implementation
I .    The Social Assessment highlights the need for formal and regular public review processes.
Mechanisms have been put into place to ensure that public concerns are articulated and incorporated into
the design of the project. One mechanism is the demonstration of public input into sub-project
identification and selection. This is a basic requirement in the Investment Appraisal Criteria for
investments in infrastructure and in the school network. Gminas will be required to submit evidence
demonstrating public awareness of, and involvement in, the process of identifying local investment needs
and priorities. In addition to providing evidence of community support, gminas desiring investments to
support the consolidation of the primary school network will be required to conduct a Social Assessment if:
(i) schools in the network serve communities with populations that are ethnically, religiously, or culturally
diverse from one another; or (ii.) the transport distance from home to school exceeds 10 kilometers. The
specifics of the SA are indicated in the TOR in the Operations Manual. A second mechanism is the
addition of citizen participation approval methods as a topical area for the training of civil servants in the
training and infrastructure components of the project. Client surveys and beneficiary assessments serve as
the third mechanism for incorporating public views into the project. A positive evaluation of the training
program is a trigger for moving the training component of the project to the second phase.
2.     A follow-on Social Assessment of the Primary School Network is clearly needed and will be
conducted in early August. Since the SA covered a broad range of issues, it was not possible to investigate
any one component of the project in depth. At the design stage of the SA, the educational reforms were still
being debated within the Ministry of Education and their implementation was uncertain. The SA on
Education will identify the main issues arising from the reorganization of the school network as viewed by
local officials, parents, teachers, and students. Specifically, the SA will focus on concerns raised by the
closing of primary schools, the selection of sites for the newly created lower secondary schools, and the
transport of children from remote areas. The findings and recommendations will be circulated to local
educational authorities.
3.     Examples of good practice in all areas of rural development should be articulated to the less active
and poorer wmina. Local officials and residents appreciate, and can learn from, good examples of best
practice particularly when the activities are low cost and already proven worthwhile in like communities.
Efforts to disseminate local innovations are already a part of the project design of the private sector
development component. An important activity in this component is the public relations campaign,
consisting of mobile rural workshops, guest lectures at rural high schools, and a bi-weekly television
program, to espouse the virtues of entrepreneurship and increase awareness of existing support services
available to current and perspective rural entrepreneurs. A similar activity is being considered for the
education component. This activity would be in the form of a road show of workshops displaying the best
practices in education initiated by local teachers and administrators. These workshops would serve as
model examples for the other gminas to follow.
4.     Women's ability to find suitable employment and start their own businesses deserves greater
- 131 -



attention. As a result of the SA, gender issues have become more fully integrated into supervision,
monitoring, and evaluation, first through gender-based monitoring of: persons and businesses gaining
access to credit, business start-ups, types of businesses, successes and failures, employment,
unemployment, and redeployment; and second, through the development and adoption of equal opportunity
criteria in the selection of SME credit applications. Gender issues have been also made more visible in
project design. Criteria for the Labor Redeployment Fund will now contain specific references to women,
and questions will be added to the labor surveys addressing women's experiences in finding and retaining
employment. In addition, effort will be made to ensure that 50 percent of the successful rural entrepreneurs
performing on the bi-weekly television are women.
5.     Affordability analysis on residents' ability to pay for tariff adjustments arising from infrastructure
investments should be given strong consideration in light of the type of financial arrangements made to the
gminas. If the GOP on-lends to the gmina, residents will be expected to assume a growing share of the
costs associated with infrastructure improvements. Hence, during project screening, it is important that
gminas not only demonstrate their financial capacity to support the proposed investment, but also justify
the approach taken in light of available alternatives. They should be able to demonstrate that they
conducted an exhaustive search for a solution that was least cost and affordable. They should also provide
a projection of the anticipated tariff adjustment and state the level of contribution that would be required
from citizens with low, average and high incomes. Criteria to this effect will be incorporated into the
Operations Manual. An affordability analysis-has also been added as a component to the evaluation study
to be completed at the end of Phase I. By the same token, experience from other World Bank infrastructure
projects in the ECA region (e.g. Latvia Daugavpils Water Project) has shown that municipal officials and
enterprise directors are often reluctant to raise tariffs and cut costs by downsizing, severely hampering
project implementation, and in some cases, stalling it altogether. Wherever possible, survey data on
household income and expenditures, often more accurate than official wage statistics, should be used in the
calculation of tariff adjustments.
B. development of monitoring and evaluation systems of primary schools
I .    The Bank initiated a pilot data collection exercise with the Curator's Office in Rzeszow to monitor
and evaluate the progress of schools before and after consolidation. In 10 gminas located throughout the
Podkarpacki voivodship, school inspectors assessed two schools slated to be merged together: a small
school with only a few students and with multi-grade teaching, and a large school with no multi-grade
teaching. The assessment entails classroom observations, an evaluation of teachers, an evaluation of 8th
grade students based on a test designed and implemented in four voivodships, an inventory of supplies and
equipment, an evaluation of physical infrastructure, and the collection of data based on school records
allowing for the calculation of attendance rates, repetition rates, drop-out rates, completion rates, and
progression from primary into secondary. The first round took place in March 1999 and a second round is
planned next Spring several months after the schools have been consolidated.
2.     The pilot test showed tremendous eagerness on the part of the Curator's Office to participate in the
activity and contribute to the lessons learned. Achieving local ownership of the pilot activity is in itself an
important outcome, as it may result in higher quality data collection efforts in the future in this region, and
also in others. The data collected in the first round are of mixed quality. Teachers' evaluations and the
evaluation of classroom processes are based on the inspectors' subjective viewpoints, making cross-school
comparisons difficult; reports of student attrition are very low and likely the result of inaccurate attendance
records; however, the rest of the data are good and can be used in the monitoring and evaluation exercise.
- 132 -



3.     Results of the pilot test will be shared with local and Ministry education officials, and any lessons
learned will be incorporated into the project's implementation arrangements. The first round has
demonstrated the need for school staff to be trained in education management techniques, including
record-keeping and data collection and management. In the long run, it is hoped that the pilot will lead
toward more systematic development of education indicators and improved data collection capacity in local
schools.
-133 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Social Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Project             Output Indicator     Evaluation Process     Assumptions
Component
Objectives
A. Microcredit
to promote                 improved             supervision
micro-enterprises   characteristics of
and to create and   persons gaining
maintain            access to credit (e.g.
self-employment in   sex and age balance)
rural areas
increase in         supervision
number of business
start-ups by gender
increase in         supervision
number of business
successes by gender
B. Human Capital
Development
redeployment of the        labor market         supervision
rural unemployed    information is better
developed
-134 -



programs             supervision,
operate according to   follow-up studies for
criteria (eligible   each program
services, eligible
local organizations,
eligible costs) and
principles agreed to
by the Bank:
Employment                                    a minimum of 15
Services                                      percent find jobs
Retraining                                    at least 50 percent
completing
programs find
immediate
employment
Temporary                                     at least a 10 percent
Community                                    job placement rate
Employment
Small Business                                a minimum of 5
Assistance                                    percent of those
who initially
register for
assistance actually
start a business
Small Business                                at least 90 percent
Incubator Assistance                          of businesses exist
after one year
- 135 -



Local Economic                              selected
Development                                  communities will
Planning Initiatives                         request grants and
develop a plan that
is endorsed by the
community and the
Regional
Development
Authorities
improve the adult          increase in           pre and post
literacy rate       functional literacy  testing of participants of
rate Functional      training programs
literacy can be tested
in various ways, e.g.
the ability to read the
proper dosage from
the instructions
printed on a medicine
bottle
improve the                greater              social
efficiency of the   willingness of       assessment
school network      parents to bus their
children to school
GUS/pilot data
teacher/pupil ratio  exercise
closer to national
norm
increase in          GUS/pilot data
primary              exercise
enrollment/attendanc
e rates
reduction in   *     GUS/pilot data
drop out rates at    exercise
primary
-136-



improve school                increase in
quality through      inventory of school    supervision/pilot data
equipment and         equipment              exercise
facilities
improved
characteristics of     supervision/pilot data
school building (type   exercise
and basic
infrastructure)
improve quality of
teaching
- training of                 increase in            supervision
teachers              demand for teacher
training and
in-service training
programs measured
by number of teacher
training programs
and participants
- availability of             increase in
instructional         percentage of          supervision/pilot data
materials             children with access    exercise
to all required
textbooks
increase in
percentage of         supervision/pilot data
.children with own     exercise
textbooks
increase in
inventory of supplies   supervision/pilot data
exercise
training for public
servants
- 137-



increase in          supervision
number of training
programs by
sector/project
component
increase in          efficiency
number of training   evaluation of selected
days per group of    training courses;
key decision-makers   supervision
in primary area of
responsibility
C. Infrastructure
improve water               increase in           willingness to
supply systems so    percentage of        pay study, supervision
as to provide        households willing
reliable water       and able to pay for
sources that also   improvements
pass phyto-sanitary         increase in
tests for industries    percentage of             GUS
Population refers to
number of
individuals or
households
depending on                 GUS
availability of data.
with access to piped
water
increase in
percentage of
population with
access to drinkable
water
- 138-



improve sewage             increase in          supervision,
collection and      number of            GUS
treatment facilities,   households with a
in conjunction with   septic tank
water supply               increase in
systems so as to    number of
complete the cycle    households                supervision,
of reliable and     connected to the     GUS
hygienically        sewage network
acceptable water           increase in
systems for the     number of
benefit of rural    enterprises connected
enterprises and     to the sewage
rural population    network                      supervision,
increase in    GUS
percentage of
households willing
and able to pay for
improvements
willingness to
pay study, supervision
improve solid waste        increase in          willingness to
management          percentage of        pay study, supervision
systems, including    households willing
collection,         and able to pay for
treatment, and      improvements
disposalfacilities in i     greater
order to fulfill    access to and                data from solid
legal, safety and   frequency of garbage   waste company
sanitary            collection
requirements
-139 -



improve selected            increase in          supervision,          roads to be
rural roads, e.g.   kilometers of roads    GUS                    constructed and
local linkages to   repaired                                      road improvements
new motorways and          increase in                            are economically
surface hardening   kilometers of new            supervision,     justified
to provide all      roads created         GUS
weather access to           increase in
certain             kilometers of routes
communities,        to major highways
specifically:               increase in          supervision,          better roads
year- round          GUS                     increase demand for
- access to         accessibility of                              transport
schooling, housing,   different forms of
medical, and other    public transportation
social services at          maintenance          GUS
the community and    and repair provisions
regional levels     for rural roads in
municipal budgets
- access to regional
centers for
employment                                       supervision
opportunities and
consumer markets
- access to major
highways
- 140-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country: Poland
Project ID No:PL-PE-58202
Project Name: Rural Development Project
Total Project Cost: US$301.04 million
Appraisal Date: July 15, 1999
IBRD/IDA Cost:US$120 million
Board Date: February 24, 2000
Task Team Leader: Piotr M. Wilczynski
Managing Unit: ECSSD
Est. date for receipt of SA by Bank: April 30, 1999
SD Team Member: Kimberly Cartwright
SA Categories are rated as follows:
Category A _ Controversial, sensitive, high social risk, or substantial adverse social impacts.
Category B _ Ownership, equity, targeting, or project effectiveness can be improved through SA.
Category C _ No significant SA benefits.
SA Category: B
Date Category Assigned: November 10, 1998
Date Sheet Prepared: April 30, 1999
Date Updated: January 20, 2000
Major Project Components:
The Rural Development Project has four main components: (i) micro-credit, (ii) human capital
development, (iii) infrastructure, and (iv) program management. Financing of these investments will
directly and indirectly support the creation of new non-farm economic activities in the countryside. The
investments include both physical works and intangibles such as skills, knowledge, and the development of
aptitude and industrial operational discipline. The project is designed so that individual elements from
each of the three components can be implemented at the local level, singly or in combination with others.
For example, a gmina (local commune) may identify the need for training for the unemployed and a credit
to help entrepreneurs start their own businesses.
Objectives of each of the 4 components, and their sub-components are, as follows:
(i) Micro-credit
- promote micro-enterprises and create and maintain self-employment in rural areas.
(ii) Human Capital Development
- 141 -



Redeployment of the Rural Unemployed
- help integrate the unemployed back into the economy
- improve the occupational and geographical mobility of the rural work force by providing a mix of
services that will address frictional and structural unemployment as well as promote self-employment and
job creation at the local level.
Education
- improve the efficiency of the education system and quality of graduates of school education by enhancing
the quality of teaching taking place in rural primary schools and gymnasiums and improving the utilization
of school resources.
Trainina for Public Servants in the Local/Regional Administration
- increase the level of efficiency and effectiveness in selected units of regional and local administration
through training and pilot institutional development programs.
(iii) Rural Infrastructure
- improve the technical infrastructure in rural areas in order to stimulate private sector investments,
facilitate the creation of non-farm jobs, improve environmental and health conditions, narrow the gap
between rural and urban areas in economic development.
(iv) Program Management and Technical Assistance
- assist rural communities with project selection, preparation and evaluation of sub-projects for financing
under the program, as well as overall program coordination and management.
Social Development Objectives of the project: (e.g. poverty alleviation and equity, social inclusion,
social cohesion, community development, strengthening of civil society)
The social development objectives of the RDP are to reduce structural poverty, support greater inclusion
of the unemployed into the economic mainstream, reduce regional inequalities in income and access to
services.
Steps for Social Analysis:
If social analysis is based on prior work, identify sources or describe social assessment actions and
schedule for the project?
The Social Assessment is a collection of case studies, expert consultations, and position papers produced
by a network of over 100 researchers, community field workers, NGO representatives, and students living
and working in rural Poland. The majority of the contributors have long standing relationships with the
citizens residing in small villages and towns and have been active in supporting the development of the
countryside. For the Social Assessment, some of them returned to the villages they know best, bringing
along sociology and anthropology students from the University of Warsaw to conduct case studies of
schools, employment offices, and self-government offices in the gminas of Kamien, Chmielnik, and Debica
(Podkarpackie region). Others drew upon their own research and experiences throughout Poland to give
-142 -



their perspectives on the proposed educational reform and on the role of the private sector and the public
regional employment offices to offer assistance to the rural unemployed. The authors (Batory Foundation,
EKO-OKO Foundation and Policy Action Group) also collected a diverse set of materials, such as
advertising leaflets, local newspapers, schools bulletins and official documents for the basis of the
information presented in the report.
Key Social Development Issues arising from the Social Analysis: (summarize from Annex 1)
There is concern that parents will not support the new educational reforms to merge and consolidate
primary schools out of fears that school buses are not safe, the cost of schooling will rise, their children
will travel long distances, and the new school will be inferior to the current school. Teachers are afraid
they will lose their jobs. Many villagers also oppose the closing down of small primary schools as schools
have traditionally been viewed to be symbols of community cohesion. Social tensions among neighboring
gminas may impede the efficient placement of the newly-created gymnasia. These issues will be explored
further in a follow-on SA on education to be conducted in August 1999. The education SA will assist the
Bank in providing policy advice to the local departments of education as to how to mitigate against any
negative social impacts arising from the educational reforms. The Bank is also requiring select gminas to
conduct their own social assessments (communities with long travel distances and those experiencing social
tensions).
There is the possibility that the beneficiaries of the employment and training programs will not respond to
incentives offered by service providers (even though these incentives are based on current demand).
Service providers may false perceptions of demand; the unemployed may not have enough trust in these
programs, or in the institutions administering the programs and/or they may doubt their ability to find
suitable employment after retraining. Client surveys and gender-based indicators will serve as monitoring
devices to evaluate the success of the training programs.
Although tariffs will undoubtedly rise as a result of infrastructure improvements, the stakeholders have not
expressed concern about affordability. However, such concerns are likely to come to the forefront in the
near future, and will be addressed in the feasibility studies and through public consultations required by the
project (in the investment appraisal criteria) and by the European Commission (OJ No L 73/7, 14.3.97).
Participation Plan
Has the participation plan been prepared and annexed to the project document?
Yes[ ]       No[X ]        TBD [ ]
(If yes, complete participation matrix in Annex 2)
What steps are planned to ensure participation in preparation, implementation, monitoring & evaluation?
First, individual gminas and associations of local communities have been consulted on past efforts to
finance infrastructure and on priority investment needs. These consultations were critical in pushing gmina
officials to develop their land use plans and prepare proposals for the pipeline, and to mobilize local
support for the project. A needs assessment is also planned for the education component.
Second, the Polish Business and Innovations Centres Association, an umbrella network of business
incubators, established under a Bank-supported urban employment project, has been consulted on ways to
apply the concept of business incubators to rural areas. Positive impressions gained from visits to several
urban incubators led to the conclusion that rural incubators should be supported in this project.
- 143-



Third, the Social Assessment utilized a highly participatory approach with contributions from local
residents and employees of school and employment institutions, officials at the Ministries of Education and
Labor, community based workers, NGO personnel, university professors, and school curators in one
voivodship (region).
Fourth, there has been strong NGO/CSO involvement in project preparation (see Appendix 4).
NGOs/CSOs will play key roles during project implementation and resources are earmarked to ensure their
participation.
Fifth, surveys, beneficiary assessments, and public awareness campaigns and consultations are planned as
regular activities under the various components and sub-components. These consultations will provide
much of the informational bases of the sub-components, as well as serve as mechanisms for stakeholders
and beneficiaries to voice their opinions, and in some instances, actively participate in project activities.
Mandatory Social Policies:
Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project? (see Annex 3for details. Annex 3 should
be filled out for all investment projects, unless the policies are not applicable)
OD 4.20      Indigenous People
OD 4.30      Involuntary Resettlement
OPN 11.03 (1986): Management of Cultural Property in Bank-financed Projects. (being revised as OP
4.11)
Yes [ ]        TBD [ ]   Not Applicable [ X ]
Yes [ 3        TBD [ ]    Not Applicable l X]
Yes [ ]        TBD [ ]   Not Applicable [X ]
If any of the safeguard policies apply, what actions are being / have been taken to ensure that the
project is in compliance? (Summarize actions from Annex 3):
N/A
Involvement of NGOs or Other Civil Society Organizations (NGOs/CSOs)
NGOs/CSOs include professional organizations, academic institutes, the media, trade/peasant unions,
business organizations, cooperatives, NGOs, community based organizations, and other organized forms
of civil society.: (summarize text from Annex 4)
There has been tremendous grassroots involvement from a variety of NGOs/CSOs during project
preparation. NGOs/CSOs, together with ministries and other agencies, developed the eligibility criteria for
the selection of gminas into the project, as well as assisted other areas of project preparation. NGOs will
play important roles in project implementation _ chiefly, as service providers of educational and
employment services and training, and as partners in the creation and operation of business service centers,
and in monitoring the progress of the programs.
- 144-



Reporting Schedule
Social Assessment: start-up date, date for first draft, and current status: First draft received April 30,
1999.
If Social Assessment is not planned is existing social analysis adequate?    N/A        Yes
[ ]   No[ ]TBD[ ]
Remarks: [List other relevant studies ongoing or completed, and indicate whether social assessments
have been made public locally]
Signature
& Date:
{Reviewer }Signature
& Date:
{SD Review Coordinator}
- 145-



SD Data Sheet: ANNEX - 1
Social Analysis
Table 1.1: Key Social Development Issues
I)     (i) Which social groups will be impacted by the investment project?
(ii) What social and cultural factors are likely to effect / be affected by the project?
(i.) Parents of children in primary schools will be affected by the Government's educational reform and
educational investments; entrepreneurs, farmers, unemployed persons will be affected by the training programs
and loan guarantees and micro-credits supported by the project.
(ii.) No anticipated social and cultural factors will effect investments in infrastructure. Social tensions between
communities in some gminas may impede the consolidation of primary schools and efficient placement of
gymnasia. Many villages oppose school closings as the school is a symbol of cultural heritage and plays an
important social function as well. There is concern that farmers, especially former State farm employees, are
passive and dependent upon social benefits and thus, will not exhibit strong demand for retraining.
2)      (i) Who are the major stakeholders?
(ii) What were the views expressed by major stakeholders?
(iii) In what way have these views been incorporated into project design?
(i.) The main stakeholders are, first and foremost, rural residents. Other key stakeholders are: parents of children
attending primary schools, teachers and local school administrators, unemployed persons, employees of the active
labor programs, employees of public utilities, farmers, government agencies (including Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture, Labor, Education, and Environment), self-governments and financial organizations, and EU
institutions and other donors addressing rural development issues in Poland.
(ii. & iii.) Parental concern over school transportation will be explored further in regular community consultations
and individual interviews. Beneficiary assessments evaluating the utility of training programs for the unemployed
and for public servants will be conducted. Although tariffs will undoubtedly rise as a result of infrastructure
improvements, the stakeholders have not expressed concern about affordability. However, such concerns are
likely to come to the forefront in the near future, and will be addressed in the feasibility studies and through public
consultations required by the project and by the European Commission.
3)      Describe the institutional and implementation arrangements to ensure inclusion of the poor or other
excluded/vulnerable groups in project benefits
A large share of the rural poor are small farmers and former State farm employees. The employment programs
financed by the Labor Redeployment Fund are targeted directly at these two groups.
The Gemini report (1994) pointed out that female entrepreneurs face many more coristraints than male
entrepreneurs in setting up their own businesses. No more than 20 to 25% of newly-created firms are owned and
managed by a woman. Women are often excluded from employment opportunities. The same report found that
women have much lower chances than men of finding jobs . To ensure that women are adequately represented in
the employment and training programs supported by the project, the project includes gender-based monitoring of
persons and businesses gaining access to credit, business start-ups, types of businesses, successes and failures,
employment, unemployment, and redeployment.
- 146-



4)      Describe the institutional and implementation arrangements to ensure mitigation of adverse impacts on
project affected persons?
Any potentialiy adverse impacts will be flagged through regular beneficiary assessments and surveys to be carried
out during implementation and through special social assessment studies. The social assessments, that will be
conducted in communities where children will be transported for distances longer than 10 km or those with high
social tensions, require officials to design an action plan for taking public input into account of existing policies.
The client surveys and beneficiary assessments are used as triggers moving the training component ahead to the
second phase. Any negative findings must be taken into account before the component moves ahead to the next
phase.
5) What mechanisms have been established and resources earmarked explicitly for monitoring &
evaluation of social impacts of the investment project?
Social impact indicators for the project components have been developed and will be used for monitoring and
evaluation purposes. The first data set which will give the baseline figures has already been purchased from the
Central Statistical Office (GUS). As it will be necessary to have school-level information for the education
component currently unavailable from GUS, the project is considering supporting data collection efforts in this
area. The Social Scientist has collaborated with school curators from one Southern voivodship and received
qualitative and quantitative data from 20 schools. This information will allow us to compare schools on a variety
of dimensions before and after consolidation.
Table 1.2: Basic data on SA
SA Status:      SA Report for    |Yes [ x ] No [ ]  Social Analysis from prior
specific lending                     SA, ESW or CAS
operation                                                     Yes[ ]No [ix]
Dates:          Est. start date   Est. completion date  Date completed
February 1999    April 30, 1999      TBD
Total SA Costs:  Bank Budget      Strategic Compact   PHRD/Trust Funds         Counterpart Funds
(in US $)
7,500           $ 50,000
147-



SD Data Sheet: ANNEX - 2
Participation Matrix
Instructions: Mark an "X" in all relevant boxes:
Project Cycle Level of Participation    Benefic Adversely  Indigenou NGOslCS Private    Other  Implementin Other
Stage                              iaries   Affected   s Peoples Os      Sector    Donors g Officials   Stakeholder
Persons                                                     s
I.          None
Identification
Info. Sharing
Consultation          x                           x         x         x       x
Collaboration
Empowerment
2. Preparation None
Info. Sharing
Consultation          x       x                   x         x         x       x
Collaboration                                     x                                       x
Empowerment
3.
Implementati None
on
Info. Sharing
Consultation          x       x
Collaboration                                     x         x         x       x           x
Empowerment                                       x
4. Monitoring
& Evaluation None
Info. Sharing
Consultation
Collaboration                                                                 x
- 148-



Empowerment
Information Sharing
one-wayflow of
information
Consultation = two-way
flow of information
Collaboration = shared
control over
decision-making
Empowerment = transfer
of control over decisions
and resources
- 149-



SD Data Sheet: ANNEX - 3
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY SOCIAL POLICIES
I.    OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples. The terms "indigenous peoples," "indigenous ethnic
minorities," "tribal groups," and "scheduled tribes" describe social groups with a social and
cultural identity distinct from the dominant society that makes them vulnerable to being
disadvantaged in the development process. For the purposes of this directive, "indigenous
peoples" is the term used to refer to these groups.
The Bank's broad objective towards indigenous people is to ensure that the development
process fosters full respect for their digniity, human rights, and cultural uniqueness. More
specifically, the objective is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects
during the development process, particularly from Bank-financed projects, and that they
receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits. For an investment project that
affects indigenous peoples, the borrower should prepare an indizenous peoples development
plan (IPDP) that is consistent with the Bank's policy.
1.1   What are the anticipated impacts of the investment project on indigenous peoples? [describe nature of
impact and number of project affected persons (PAPs)]
N/A
1.2   Does the IPDP (a) ensure that indigenous people benefit from development projects, and (b) avoid or
mitigate potentially adverse effects on indigenous people caused by Bank-assisted activities?
N/A
1.3   What steps have been taken to ensure that the IPDP strategy is based on the informed participation of the
indigenous people?
N/A
2.     OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement
The objective of the Bank's resettlement policy is to ensure that the population displaced by a
project receives benefits from it. Project affected persons (PAPs) include those undergoing loss
of land, housing, or livelihoods as a direct result of land acquisition?
2.1   What are the anticipated impacts of the land acquisition arising out of the investment project? [describe
nature of impact and number of PAPs]
NONE
-150 -



2.2    What actions have been initiated/taken to ensure compliance    If the number of PAPs exceeds 100, the
policy requires the Borrower to prepare a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) with a realistic timetable and budget,
consistent with Bank policy, prior to appraisal. with the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement?
N/A
2.3   Summarize the strategy designed by the Borrower to mitigate resettlement impacts?
N/A
2.4    What steps have been taken to ensure that the resettlement strategy is based on the informed participation
of the PAPs?
N/A
3.     OPN 11.03 Management of Cultural Property
3.1   What are the expected impacts of the investment project on cultural property?
N/A
3.2   What actions have been initiated/taken to ensure compliance with the Bank's policy on cultural property?
N/A
SD Data Sheet: ANNEX - 4
INVOLVEMENT OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS / CIVIL
SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS
Identify the NGOs/CSOs (or type of NGOs/CSOs) expected to be involved in the project during preparation, and
supervision phases, respectively?
- 151 -



NGOs involved during preparation:
Academy of Development of Philanthropy in Poland
Agricultural Development Fund
Association 'We Share What We Own."
Association of Active Unemployed of Ychlin Region
Association of Rural Gminas
Batory Foundation
Centrum for Educational Initiatives
Ecofund
Ecological Association "Our Earth"
Ekoland Association
EKO-OKO Foundation
Environmental Lobbying Support Office
European Fund for Polish Village Development
Foundation for Development of Polish Agriculture
Foundation for Disabled Mathematicians and Computer Scientists
Foundation in Support of Local Democracy
Fundacija Osrodka Edukacji Ekologicznij
Fundacja Idealna Gmina
Policy Action Group
Polish Foundation for SME Promotion and Development
Polish Youth Foundation
Water Supply Foundation
Young Women's Christian Association
CSOs involved during preparation:
Agencja Badawcza Ewaluator
Development Alternatives Initiatives
Institute of Sociology, lagonian University
Malopolska Szkola Administracji Publicziej
Malopoiski Instytut Samorzadu Terytorialnego Administracji
Market and Public Opinion Research Institute
Polish Academy of Sciences
Polish Business and Innovation Centres Association
Rutgers University Center for Russian, Central, and East European Studies
What roles are anticipated for the different types of NGOs/CSOs identified?
- 152 -



Many of the NGOs/CSOs listed above are participating together with ministries and agencies in the Inter-Agency
Task Force convened to assist in criteria selection and other aspects of project preparation.
The Bank will collaborate with The Polish Foundation for SME Promotion and Development through the creation
of locally owned and operated business service centers maintained under its aegis. It will also consult with the
Foundation on lessons learned from its pilot project to improve participating banks' lending operations.
The Bank will collaborate with the National Association of Loan Guarantee Funds which will oversee the
operations of the newly-created guarantee funds.
NGOs/CSOs with activities in small and enterprise business development, such as DAI, will be involved in the
public relations workshops for budding entrepreneurs, provide support for the formulation of business plans, and
contribute toward the development of the two studies on SMEs in Poland.
Select NGOs/CSOs will be invited to submit bids to deliver services to unemployed persons, such as career and
employment counseling, relocation assistance, retraining programs. NGOs/CSOs will also be the service
providers to farmers applying for micro-credit.
Foundations, NGOs or local educational institutions will be directly involved in the execution of the education
sub-component. Teacher training programs will be delivered by specialized local training institutions and NGOs.
NGOs, universities and technical institutes will also give courses on a range of educational programs designed to
assist rural gminas prepare and implement educational plans and administer educational resources.
Identify the resources earmarked to ensure fulfillment of this role by NGOs/CSOs?
The funds for the activities specified above are earmarked in the budgets for each of the project's components and
sub-components.
- 153 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country: Poland
Project ID No:PL-PE-58202
Project Name: Rural Development Project
Total Project Cost: US$301.04 million (US$120 million IBRD loan)
Appraisal Date: July, 1999
Board Date: April 11, 2000
Task Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski
Managing Unit: ECSSD
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank: N/A
EA Category (A/B/C): Fl
Date Assigned: May, 1999
Date Sheet Updated: July 22, 1999
Major Project Components: The primary objective of the project is to contribute to the financing of
investments in education and training, rural infrastructure, and private sector development that will directly
and indirectly support creation of new non-farm economic activities in the countryside. Investments will
include both physical works as well as human capital development in the forms of skills, knowledge and
aptitude development and industrial operational discipline. There will be four major components briefly
described as follows:
Component A-Micro-credit: typical elements include (i) technical assistance support to small
businesses, (ii) loans to small entrepreneurs
Component B-Human Capital Development: (i) design and implementation of active labor
programs (ALPs) including training, specialized employment services and public works, (ii) programs of
adult literacy improvement, improving teaching in primary schools in rural areas, improve quality and
access to gymnasia in rural areas, and (iii) training for public servants in local/regional administrations
Component C-Rural Infrastructure: small infrastructure investments in water supply and sewage
collection/treatment facilities, solid waste disposal site development, rural road improvements
Component D-Program Management: Assist in the establishment of capabilities in rural
communities for project preparation (selection, preparation, evaluation) as well as technical assistance for
overall program coordination and management.
Major Environmental Issues: Environmental issues are primarily associated with Component C
(Infrastructure). Under Component C, the issues are likely to be experienced primarily in the construction
phase (land clearing, movement of men, equipment and materials to and from project site, etc.). However,
if the projects are improperly designed, environmental issues would be manifested during operations (e.g.
wastewater sludge disposal, solid waste leachates contaminating groundwater supplies, etc.).
Other Environmental Issues : The variety of sub-projects likely to be supported under the project will
require careful attention and evaluation by responsible local/regional (voivodship, gmina etc.) and possibly
national environmental authorities. Environmental legislation and the environmental regulatory framework
in Poland are in general both adequate and effective.
- 154-



Proposed Actions: Specific mechanisms and specific institutions likely to be responsible for specific
sub-project environmental evaluation, permitting, licensing, approval etc. have been identified.
Furthermore, an assessment of the technical capabilities of environmental institutions has been done, and
as required a program of institutional strengthening will be included in the project for them to effectively
discharge their responsibilities for environmental approval.
Additionally, a comparison between World Bank environmental review (EA) requirements and those of
Poland should be made. To the extent that there are differences (e.g. category assignment, public
participation, documentation and implementation requirements for environmental management plans etc.),
local Polish environmental institutions should be provided with adequate and sufficient strengthening to
review and approve projects in a manner.that is consistent with both requirements of Polish law and World
Bank environmental policies and procedures.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: Projects will be identified and prepared at local
levels. Since funds will flow through intermediate institutions, the Fl Category is considered most
appropriate.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current
status)
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted,
tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA, etc)
Signed by:
(En 'nm or Leat
August2 , 1999
-155 -



Additional
Annex No.: 15
Lessons Learned from Multi-Sector Projects
Background
1. During the preparation of the Poland Rural Development Program, about which more below, it
became clear that success of that program would depend to a large extend upon local implementation
capacity. This is a result of the complexity of many of the components proposed and of the recent
decentralization of many public sector functions and responsibilities from central to local governments. It
was soon realized, though, that reliance on local implementation, with direct involvement of ultimate
stakeholders, might not be a serious constraint, may actually be an advantage. Moreover, it was recognized
that the overall level of development and the nature and character of the local institutions and beneficiaries,
in contemporary Poland, allow for assigning of major responsibilities for implementation to local bodies. It
was at that point that task management wanted to be assured that precedents exist, elsewhere in the Bank,
of rural development projects of a similar nature as the one contemplated for Poland, that have relied to a
large extent on local implementation capacity. If such were the case, management would like to know what
lessons these other Bank projects might have for what is contemplated for the program in Poland. This note
addresses these issues.
The Poland Rural Development Program (RDP)
2.     The Poland Rural Development Program addresses current high unemployment in rural
regions of Poland, and the anticipated further reduction in agricultural employment over the coming years
as a consequence of the restructuring of the farming sector. The program is aimed at facilitating the
creation of new non-farm job opportunities in rural areas through an integrated program of investments in
basic infrastructure, human capital development, and direct assistance for private sector development. The
program will be responsive to grass-roots demands as expressed in regional and local infrastructure
investment plans. Therefore the program will be part of Poland's national public investment program, and
its modalities.
3.    The program's design is driven by economic and social considerations. It will provide a
focus on rural unemployment by creating a more conducive environment for the motor of job-creation, the
SME sector, in the most depressed rural areas, and seeks to integrate lessons learned from other complex,
multi-sectoral projects. In its paper: World Bank experience with Rural Development. 1965-1986, OED
argues that the following issues are crucial for the successful implementation of a complex, multi-sectoral
rural development project: (a) strong government commitment to the project, (b) a favorable
macroeconomic environment, (c) reliance upon locally proven technical innovations, (d) flexibility in
program design so as to allow adaptations during implementation, (e) integration of a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation process and effective use of its feedback mechanism and, (g) full community
participation. Following is a summary of such multi-sectoral rural development projects whose experiences
are germane to what is proposed for the Poland RDP.
Project Summaries and Conclusion
4.     China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project. This project successfully demonstrates
- 156 -



the effectiveness of a focused multi-sector rural development project that is locally implemented. In its
QAC report the project's actual and potential impact at the highest policy level is characterized as "best
practice". The rating is in large part due to China's strong commitment to poverty reduction, its impressive
implementation capacities, especially on the county level, strong local participation and the efforts of the
task manager. The project has eight main components, ranging from land and farmer development to the
creation of social services and an employment generation component. Its total cost is almost half a billion
dollars, of which the Bank finances about 50%. A hierarchical structure of implementation agents from
national to county level, with operational focus on the latter, has assured effective creation of the project's
many components, allowing it to reach its developmental objectives successfully.
5.     Cyprus: Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project. The main objective of this
project was the development of the mountainous, economically depressed region of Pitsilia by enhancing its
productive resources and improving its social services. Despite its complexity, the project was completed
only one year behind schedule. The lessons learned from this project are: (i) a multi-component rural
development project can be implemented without major delay or deviation from the original objectives, if
there is strong government commitment, competent and devoted management, and a suitable coordination
mechanism and, (ii) flexible coordination arrangements are needed for adjusting to the different phases of
the project and to changing circumstances. The project had three main components: (a) investments in rural
infrastructure, (b) in social infrastructure, notably in schools, health centers and water supplies and (c)
institutional developments. Total project cost was US$ 21 million, of which the Bank financed 85%.
Overall implementation responsibility rested with the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, while
a total of more than 20 agencies from different ministries were involved with the operational aspects of
implementation. Overwhelming support of the ultimate stakeholders for the successful land consolidation
achieved under the project, attests to the success of the project's participatory efforts.
6.     Korea: Infrastructure Project II. Since 1971, Korea has undertaken a massive program
of rural infrastructure works under the Saemaeul (New Community) movement. These works range from
micro-scale improvements of village drains to sophisticated large-scale utility or irrigation projects. The
Bank has been involved in this sector since 1976 when it approved a loan of US$60 million to finance the
first Rural Infrastructure Project which was satisfactorily completed in March 1980. Under the
Infrastructure Project 11 a US$95 million loan was approved in 1978, to finance 41% of total project costs,
aiming at improving living conditions in rural areas, achieving decentralized economic growth, reducing the
influx of rural people to large cities and building self-reliance in rural areas. The project has achieved or
exceeded almost all of its physical targets. Among the reasons for smooth project implementation was the
development strategy, based on decentralized decision making, self-help from the villagers, and willingness
of the beneficiaries to contribute cash and labor, both for construction, organizing and managing of project
work. The project's success may be partially attributed to the fact that it represented a time slice of
on-going development programs, was implemented by experienced agencies, and was strongly supported by
central government.
7.     Bulgaria: Regional Investment Fund Project (LIL). This LIL aims at testing the social fund
mechanism as a means of improving the standards of living amongst the poor and unemployed during
economic transition. One of the key features of this project, appraised in November 1998, is to delegate
substantial responsibility to the Municipal Councils and NGOs in order to assure maximum local
participation. Under the supervision of the Project Management Unit (PMU), the Municipal Councils and
NGOs prepare micro-projects and select contractors for implementation. Due to the recent banking crisis
in Bulgaria the Municipal Councils are not involved in the flow of funds but authorize the PMU to pay the
contractors. Based on evaluating the Municipal Councils'lNGOs' handling of grants their responsibilities
in dealing with the flow of funds will be gradually extended.
- 157 -



8.    Moldova Social Investment Fund (SIF) Project. This US$ 20.3 million project, of which
the Bank will finance 73% has two main objectives: (i) help empower rural communities by strengthening
their decision making capacity and, (ii) improve the quality of basic social and economic services for rural
populations in Moldova, particular for the poor. The SIF provides a new model of community-based
development, and offers a modest, first opportunity to those who have suffered disproportional from the
economic transition. Government will pass on the funds under the Bank loan, to the Project Management
Unit, which in turn finances micro-projects proposed by community beneficiary groups. Operational
guidelines for project implementation, laid down in a detailed implementation manual, are based, in part, on
experiences gained from a pilot project.
Conclusions
The projects in China, Cyprus and Korea proof that complex integrated rural development projects
designed by the Bank have been implemented successfully. The lessons learned indicate that strong
government commitment, flexible implementation arrangements and beneficiary participation on the local
level are crucial elements for a positive result of project implementation. The projects in Bulgaria and
Moldova which are based on Social Investment Funds show that the Bank supports community based
development by delegating substantial responsibility to local authorities.
- 158-



Project Details
Project            China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
(Allan Piazza - Task Manager)
Developmental     i) demonstrate the effectiveness of a focused multi-sectoral rural
Objectives of the    development project approach to poverty reduction;
Project            ii) significantly reduce absolute poverty in 35 of the very poorest counties
in southwestern China;
iii) facilitate increased labor mobility for the poor areas to better off rural
and rapidly growing urban areas;
iv) stabilize and reverse upland environmental destruction;
v) encourage greater local community participation and;
vi) upgrade poverty monitoring at the national and local levels.
Project            1. Social Services (US$45.5 million)
Components         II. Labor Mobility (US$45.3 million)
III. Rural Infrastructure (US$39.0 million)
IV. Land and Farmer Development (US$111.9 million)
V. TVE Development (US$53.9 million)
VI. Institution Building (US$6.3 million)
VII. Project and Poverty Monitoring (US$5.5 million)
VIII. Guanxi Employment Development (US$67.4 million)
(Total project cost US$486.4 million of which the Bank would finance
51% or US$247 million - US$200.00 IDA Credit and US$47.50 Bank
Loan)
Number of          High number of implementation agencies on the national, provincial and
Implementing       county level. County level played the key role in the implementation.
Agencies
Pattern of Project   See Chart at end of detailed description
Organization
-159 -



Flow of Funds      The MOF on-lends the proceeds of the IDA credit to the central
Provincila Poor Area Development Office (PADO) and the governments
of the three project provinces, and b) the IBRD loan directly to Guangxi.
The MOF also manages the two Special Accounts. A portion of the funds
on-lent to the provinces were used directly by the provinces to cover the
costs of institutional development, research, technical assistance,
training, equipment, management expenses and labor mobility activities.
The provincial Finance Department representing the provincial
governments, channeled the remaining funds successively to prefecture,
municipal, county and township governments through their internal
financial system. On-lending to farmers and enterprises was only for
activities that had been appraised and approved by the project
implementation agencies.
Procurement        Works: NCB (maximum $2.5 million), force account
Methods            Goods: ICB (packages of $200,000 or more) and NCB (up to $200,000)
NS for all contracts under $50,000.
Assessment: Procurement methods need to be better designed to match
local circumstances: e.g. project documents call for national competitive
bidding for the supply of breeding stock ignoring the fact that China does
not have well-developed national markets for cattle: local shopping would
make more sense. Also, the PAD gives a list of recommended essential
drugs for village health clinics ignoring Chinese traditional medicines.
Democratic         Participatory principle: Teams went to each project county for a week
Decision Taking    and interviewed villagers about their needs. Based on these interviews the
Process where      content of the components was defined. The final decision about which
Stakeholders are    projects would be implemented was taken by the counties.
Taken into
Account
Current Status of   Approved in June 1995, effective in February 1996, closing December
the Project        2001
-160 -



Evaluation of the    "This is a complex and ambitious project and yet achieves substantial
Project if available  success in implementation." Its actual and potential impact at the highest
policy level can be characterized as "best practice" (QAG Review of
East Asia Rural Poverty Reduction Projects; November 5, 1997)
Project Design and Supervision Strengths:
-Effective targeting to the poorest households even in the poor areas;
-Strong local participation;
Strong task management despite limited resources;
Bringing to bear imaginative approaches for poverty reduction
interventions;
-The commitment, dedication and ability of the Government of China to
implement a complex and sophisticated project, with many lessons for
elsewhere in China and other parts of the developing world.
Areas for Improvement of Design and Implementation:
-Making de facto phasing of the project de jure during mid-term review
by recognizing its complexity and demanding pace for China;
- Greater focus on addressing the broad ranging long term institutional
implications of the project to ensure sustainability
-Greater attention to the myriad specific sectoral and subsectoral policy
and institutional changes thrown up by the project
'Need for simplifying and increasing flexibility in the Bank's
procurement procedures
Other interesting    The task manager stressed the fact that the key to the success of the
features           project was the strong government support. Poverty reduction was the
absolute priority of the government. The LGPR, which is in the Chinese
government hierarchy higher than the ministerial level sent out invitations
to the implementing agencies to attend the project launch workshop. The
professional future of the civil servants involved in the implementation of
the project was dependent on the positive results of the project.
- 161 -



Project              Cyprus" Pitsilia Integrated Rural Development Project
(Tariq Husain - Task Manager)
Developmental        The main objective of the project was the development of the
Objective of the     mountainous, economically depressed region Pitsilia by developing its
Project              productive resources and improving its social services.
Project              1. Productive investment in irrigation and rehabi]itation, soil
Components           conservation, land consolidation and farm access roads, on-farm water
distribution, and village access roads (US$18.6million)
11. Social infrastructure investments in village streets, schools, rural
health centers, and upgrading village water supplies(US$2. I million);
and
111. Institutional investments in building for extension services,
veterinary health and applied research (US$0.3million)
The total project cost is US$21.0 million and the Bank financed 85% or
US$10.0 million.
Number of            Responsibility for coordination implementation was placed in the
Implementing         Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources with varying degrees of
Agencies            involvement of 20 agencies from several ministries.
The project started of with large Coordination Committee to organize
implementation of the project. (see chart) As this committee turned out
to be too large it was split up into five Working Committees - for soil
conservation, irrigation schemes, Xyliatos-dam, roads and rehabilitation
and water supply schemes. In the process of implementation the number
of committees was adjusted according to the actual needs.
Despite the complexity of the project, implementation proceeded well
and the project was completed only one year behind schedule.
Pattern of Project    The project was divided in to a major project (Xiliator dam), minor
Organization         projects (new irrigation areas utilizing water from ponds and/or
boreholes, and rehabilitated schemes) and other infrastructure.
Flow of Funds        A separate account was kept which was subdivided to accord with the
categories indicated above.
- 163 -



Procurement          Procurement for Civil Works was done under ICB (8 contracts, one for
Methods             the dam and seven for the equipment.); LCB was applied for smaller
civil works (35 contracts)
Water distribution systems of minor irrigation schemes, soil
conservation works, village street and roads and farm roads were
constructed through Force Account as small sizes and scattered location
of these works would not attract local contractors.
Democratic           Farmers participation in the initial stage of the project preparation was
Decision Taking      somewhat limited. However, because of the number of project
Process where        components that involved local contribution, project management soon
Stakeholders are     saw the importance of informing and involving farmers quite fully. This
Taken into Account  included the farmers' approval of all irrigation and land consolidation
schemes, establishment of soil conservation division for bench terracing,
operation and maintenance of all irrigation schemes, and financial
contributions towards meeting the costs of most project components.
The most extensive interaction with farmers occurred in the six villages
where land consolidation was implemented after substantial interaction
to take into account objections and reaching solutions. Overall, the
farmers response was positive as reflected by the 80% majority who
voted in favor of consolidation and thus made possible the successful
termination of the farm access roads and irrigation distribution system,
which were affected by the land consolidation.
Current Status of    Loan was approved in August 1977 for the sum of US$10.0 million,
the Project          project became effective in November 1977 and the loan was fully
disbursed and closed in June 1984.
Lessons Learned     In this case, a multi-component project design proved viable in spite of
numerous and complex problems of coordination that might easily have
led to failure. The lessons to be learned are:
(i) a multi-component rural development project can be implemented
without major delay or deviation from the original objectives, if there is
strong government commitment, competent and devoted management,
and a suitable coordination mechanism
(ii) flexible coordination arrangements are needed for adjusting to the
different phases of the project and changing circumstances Various
coordination bodies proved instrumental for the success of the project.
- 164-



Evaluation of the   Despite its complexity, the project was completed only one year behind
Project if available   schedule. Most of the components were completed as planned, and in
several aspects exceeded appraisal estimates.
The key aspects in successful implementation appear to have been
a) a project design which gave first importance to the key limiting
factors, which in this case was water;
b) a competent, highly motivated and persistent project coordinator;
c) strong Government commitment;
d) sound procedures for involving villagers to assure their agreement on
priorities and requiring their commitment throughout implementation;
and
e) warranted flexibility on the part of Bank staff in supporting key
project modifications requested by the project unit.
This was the implementation arrangement at the beginning of the project. As the Coordination Committee
turned out to be too large it was split up into five Working Committees. In the process of implementation
the number of committees was adjusted according to the actual needs.
-165 -



Project           Korea Rural Infrastructure Project II
(Peter Whitford - Task Manager)
Developmental    The project was part of the Saemuaeul Program which was initiated in
Objective of the    1971 as a nationwide comprehensive self-help program to improve living
Project           conditions in rural areas, to achieve decentralized economic growth, to
reduce the influx of rural people to large cities and to build self-reliance in
rural areas.
Project           1. Minor irrigation (US$81.8 million)
Components        11. River Training (US$37.5 million)
III. Water Supply (US$37.4 million)
IV. Rural Telephones (US$25.1 million)
The Bank financed 41% of total project cost or US$95.0 million. Total
project cost was US$232.0 million (At the closing of the loan the cost
overrun of the irrigation component was estimated at about 25% while the
overall project cost was about 11% above the appraisal estimate.)
Number of         Four Ministries: Agriculture (MOA), Home Affairs (MHA), Health and
Implementing      Social Affairs (MHSA) and Communication (MC)
Agencies
Pattern of        No attempt was made to set up an organization responsible for executing
Project           project works or for coordinating the four executing agencies. The project,
Organization      however, was successfully implemented, mostly because it consisted of a
series of on-going programs, strongly supported by the government and the
project beneficiaries with minimal disruption for each executing agency.
Flow of Funds     Funds to be supplied by the Bank were mainly disbursed to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) as a reimbursement for completed works. Approved
budget amounts were disbursed by the MOF to the responsible ministries
in four equal installments at the beginning of each calendar year. For the
irrigation component government loans were made to the subproject
owners, the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIAs). Government
funds for the water supply component were disbursed through the MHSA,
provinces and counties to the villages affected.
Procurement       Procurement was the responsibility of the Office of Supply of the Republic
Methods           of Korea except for very small quantities required at the scattered work
sites. Some field vehicles and motorcycles were bought from local sources
rather than through ICB (more cost efficient).
- 166 -



Democratic        The Saemaeul influence was reflected in the substantial labor contribution
Decision Taking    provided by the villagers in the construction or improvement of the river
Process where     training and water supply sub-projects as well as the increasing
Stakeholders are   responsibility of local institutions and villagers for their operation and
Taken into        maintenance.
Account
Current Project   Loan of US$95 million was approved in March 1978 and became effective
Status            in June 1978. The closing date of this loan was June 1984.
Evaluation of the   (i) The project has achieved or exceeded its physical targets,
Project if        except for minor irrigation. Among the reasons for smooth
available         project implementation was the development strategy, based on
decentralized decision making, self-help from the villagers, and
willingness of the beneficiaries to contribute cash and labor,
both for construction, organizing and managing of project
work.
(ii) The project was not subject to many of the problems
usually associated with multi-component, rural development
projects. The project success may be partially attributed to the
fact that it represented a time slice of on-going development
programs and was implemented by experienced agencies. The
project consisted of a serious of on-going programs, strongly
supported by the government and the project beneficiaries, with
minimal disruption for each executing agency.
iii) A significant achievement of the project was the further
strengthening of the institution building process which has been
initiated under the Saemaeul program.
iv) Another major achievement of the project was a good
monitoring and evaluation system, which was introduced under
the first project and continued to operate under the second one.
A number of evaluation studies to measure the project impact
were carried out by independent research institutes.
- 167-



Project               Bulgaria: Regional Initiatives Fund Project
(Mary Beth Schmidt - Task manager)
Developmental         The projects development objective is to test the social fund
Objective of the      mechanism as a means of improving the standards of living amongst
Project               the poor and unemployed during economic transition.
Project Components   I. Microprojects US$ 4.7 million
II. Labor Market Analysis (LMA) - US$0.4 million
III. Project management US$ 1.  million
The total project cost is US$ 6.3 million. The Bank will finance
US$4.9 million or 77% of the total project cost.
Number of             Newly Created Project Management Unit (PMU - members recruited
Implementing          by the MLSP Ministry of Labor and Social Policy) which is
Agencies              supposed to be develop into an independent government agency after
the 24-months period
(during the fist 18 months UNDP will provide technical assistance
UNDP's support service role is limited to: assistance with reporting
requirements, direct payments, recruitment of project personnel,
organization of training activities, and procurement of goods and
services.)
(LMA carried out by the statistical National Statistical Institute)
A Steering Committee of Government and NGO representatives has
been established to oversee the activities of the PMU with a
composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. In
addition to approving micro-projects and providing guidance and
oversight to the PMU, the SC will endorse (i) financial audits, (ii)
quarterly progress reports and financial statements, (iii) any changes
to the Operational Manual for the RIF-LIL.
- 168 -



Pattern of Project     Microprojects will be proposed and implemented by "Intermediaries",
Organization           that is municipalities, NGOs, cooperatives and other civil society
organizations with the legal status that would enable them to sign
contracts, open bank accounts, spend public money and have the
authority over a microproject facility/infrastructure. Duties and rights
are listed in the Operational Manual. Their responsibilities specific to
each microproject would be stipulated in a Funding Agreement signed
by the PMU and the Intermediary.
Detailed procedures are described in the Operational Manual to
promote, appraise, prioritize, approve, implement, supervise and
evaluate microprojects.
Preparation, Appraisal and Approval
Intermediaries will be encouraged during a country-wide promotion
campaign to identify microprojects and submit Preliminary
Application Forms (PAF) to the PMU. The PMU screens the PAFs
against exclusive criteria. Those that pass the exclusive criteria are
ranked by "need" by using prioritizing criteria. The PMU will make
field visits to about 120 of the microprojects with the highest need
score. After an assessment of the social, institutional, environmental,
economic, financial and technical feasibility of the microproject, the
PMU will authorize Intermediaries to contract a consultant to prepare
the drawings, bill of quantities, activities schedule, technical studies
or other prerequisites for approval. These costs will be calculated in
the total cost of the microproject.
Upon receipt of the required preparation documents, the PMU and/or
technical consultants may conduct a second field visit to complete the
assessments. The microprojects will be scored again taking into
account firm estimates of costs and labor content that will be
available after preparation and appraisal. Microprojects approved by
the PMU and estimated to cost US$40.000 and above, and the first
ten microprojects irrespective of cost, will require approval by the
Steering Committee prior to implementation.
Flow of Funds          The MOF signed the loan agreement, the money is channeled through
UNDP into a special account which is disbursed in Sofia. A local
account is established by the PMU. The PMU receives requests for
payment from contractors with the agreement from the Municipal
Council/NGO. The PMU authorizes payment to the contractor. The
loan money does not flow through the municipalities, but they receive
grants to prepare microprojects (for e.g. water tests, feasibility tests).
Based on experience about how municipalities deal with those grants
they may get more responsibilities.
- 169 -



Procurement Methods   A funding Agreement between the Intermediary and the PMU will be
signed following approval of the microproject, describing the duties
and liabilities of all parties, technical specifications, budget,
procurement methods and contracting procedures. The Intermediary
will procure goods, services and works for microprojects in
compliance with the Operational Manual, with guidance and
oversight by the PMU. The Operational Manual will detail the steps
to be followed and coordination arrangements to ensure
Intermediaries can participate in procurement while maintaining
compliance with World Bank procurement guidelines. The
Intermediary will enter into a contract with the winning
bidder/supplier, using a standard contract provided by the PMU.
Payment to the contractor/supplier/consulting service will be in
parallel with progress achieved and only after the Intermediary and
PMU verifies that the work, services and goods are satisfactory.
Local and National     Spelled out in detail in the OM
Rules and Regulations
such as
Environmental Laws
etc.
Democratic Decision    Introduction of democracy has led to considerable decentralization of
Taking Process where   administrative functions in municipalities. Mayors and Municipal
Stakeholders are       Councils are elected and undertake their functions by using local
Taken into Account    taxes/fees and central subsidies.
RIF-LIL integrated the following ideas: (i) the Municipal Council is a
forum in which microprojects can be debated and endorsed, (ii) press
coverage of council meetings inforns residents of decision making,
(iii) in each municipality, a Technical Committee will act as an
inter-agency coordination body to ensure that microprojects are
consistent with sector plans and norms, (iv) technical assistance is
needed to assist municipalities in preparation of microprojects and
procurement of works; and (v) a funding agreement specifying the
responsibilities and rights of the municipalities and the PMU is
needed to empower the intermediaries and hold them accountable.
- 170 -



Evaluation of the      No evaluation is as yet available, but monitoring and evaluation
Project if available   arrangements are part of the design in order to evaluate data from
experiences made with the RIF-LIL
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The PMU is responsible
for feedback on the implementation and the impact of the
microprojects on the basis of recommendations on the RIF's design
and regulations. To enable the PMU to estimate costs and benefit of
microprojects, so that comparisons can be made with other programs,
an integrated monitoring and evaluation system will facilitate learning
and project supervision. This consists of microproject monitoring; a
computerized Management Information System and evaluations
including a beneficiary assessment and impact assessment.
Current Status of the    The LIL was approved on November 20, 1998. The expected closing
project                date is April, 30, 2001.
Other interesting      Performance indicators: Since the Government's chief motivation
features               for developing the RIF is to create income earning opportunities for
vulnerable groups, the impact of the microprojects financed by the
LIL will be judged against this objective. In particular, indicators will
focus on microprojects as (i) a more cost-effective means to transfer
income to vulnerable groups than existing social assistance programs;
and ii) as a more effective and efficient instrument for employment
creation than existing ALMPs run by the Government.
- 171 -



Project                 Moldova Social Investment Fund Project (MSIF)
Thomas Blinkhorn - Task Manager
Developmental           The two project development objectives are: (i) help empower rural
Objective of the Project   communities by strengthening their decision making capacity (ii)
improve the quality of basic social and economic services for rural
populations in Moldova, particular for the poor. The SIF provides
a new model of community-based development, and offers a
modest, first opportunity to those who have suffered
disproportional from the economic transition.
Project Components      1. Improved Delivery of Basic Services (US$16.7 million)
II. Strengthened Children's Social Development (US$5 million)
111. Capacity Building for Community and Local Government
(US$2 million)
IV. Project Management Unit (US$2.9 million)
The total project cost is US$20.3. The Bank will finance US$14.8
million or 73% of the total project cost.
Number of               MSIF/PMU, Implementing Agency (IA), Private Contractors and
Implementing Agencies    Local Governments
- 173-



Pattern of Project      MOF will pass on the IDA credit to the MSIF as a grant to finance
Organization            microprojects implemented directly by community beneficiary
groups.
The community is requested to attend promotional meetings,
organize into an elected body (Implementation Agency), complete a
microproject application, raise 15% of total project cost,
competitive procure works and services, and supervise the
implementation and future operation and maintenance of the
facility/program. The MSIF provides promotion and information
on choices, technical assistance throughout the microproject cycle,
supervision oversight, and monitoring and evaluation. The MSIF
will enter into performance contracts with Implementing Agencies,
or newly created Beneficiary Associations, to provide incentives
(through a 2-year matching grant arrangement) to sustain the
quality of the microproject service post-investment.
MSIF has drafted a project implementation plan that includes a
4-year implementation schedule detailed project cost tables and the
final MSIF Operational guidelines (OG). The Operational
guidelines, with accompanying handbooks on finance and
administration, and microproject promotion, appraisal, and
follow-up/supervision, have been refined on lessons learned during
the pilot project. The OG clearly specify processes, procedures,
roles and responsibilities for project implementation, and offer one
of several tolls for project transparency and accountability. The
OG will be adapted in the Operational Manual (OM).
Flow of Funds           MOF will pass on the IDA credit to the MSIF as a grant to finance
microprojects implemented directly by community beneficiary
groups.
Procurement Methods    For works above US$100,00 NCB, for goods IS for contracts up
to US$200,000 and NS up to US$50,000 and for consultant
services BCBSICQ
Democratic Decision     The community- based groups, referred to as local implementation
Taking Process where    agencies are responsible for microproject implementation. The
Stakeholders are Taken    group is elected during the general community meeting to represent
into Account            the community, and typically includes five members, two of whom
must be women. The beneficiary communities are expected to
organize itself through these LAs, to identify and to reach
consensus on small-scale investment priorities which maximize
public benefit, and take responsibility for implementation.
- 174-



Current Status of the   Since November 1997, the Moldova SIF has been implementing a
Project                 US$1.4 million pilot project. The project was appraised in
September 1998 and went to the board on January 28, 1999.
Evaluation of the       N/A
Project if available
Other interesting       The MISF pilot and other SIFs in the ECA region provided highly
features of the project    the following useful lessons for the design of the main project: (iO
the importance of maintaining an autonomous PMU to depoliticize
the microproject process and ensure effective targeting; (ii) the
advantage of recruiting competitively at market prices for PMU
staff; iii) the composition of the SC or Board, where possible,
should a) include central ministries but avoid line ministries in
order to minimize the influence over microproject types and b)
include 50% government and 50% non-government representatives;
iv) the advantage of investing in a pilot phase to tailor the SIF to
specific country context; and v) the need to focus upstream, with
TA and training, on community organization, strong participation,
and financial contribution.
- 175 -



I



IRDO 2605RR
14                           16'                            18                           20'                           22     \                      24j
RUSSIAN                \                                                                           P
FEDERATION                                                                                          POLIHUAIAD
> r ;~~~~ . - Pi e r.   T  '  .   A                                      FEDERATION                 / ~~~~~~~~~~~L I T H U A N I A               /POLAND
SI,,}5 p,k         J         *! Gd-nk  Klnnrd_ToKuni
SIipsE 1                  Gdonsk                  -' <  I                                                                                        '"' <V   {  , 7  - ~ 7  ~  ' _    =  EXPRESSWAYS
51                                         1     i            GDANSKt   -     I                                                   1uiE    '\                            /       54                -       OTHER MAIN ROADS
StX  t -- t 1  $      j         1 Xs y<EfBLAG /' 1 0iSZT'r'rN  .  A  SUWALK/'1                   " .3   }   S   RAILJ
I  ''~~~~~~~~~-S  P7   ERR                                       -                                                                       ' -'  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
K  QZALIN                                                                         A d                                                                                      AIRPORTS
) ~~~~~~~    N                                           1             ISVEO                         >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  ~TV,I,,i
"-            ,ICZErCIN                                                T'                                              /         '                                                                 MAJOR PORTS
ScZ To>    Pr                       '\a 4YDGC)ZCZ I  '<    ''                                     '~   "   '    .                   5 W karnO '  F\                                          NOWA LAYiOONZZ
r'U)'Ng ,                                                        <. , NOWY SA I                                            PROVINCE .WOJEWiRWDZTWOE CAPITALS
/      T      o              I   slOeko                                              BELAARS MAJOR URBAN ARRAS
r PILA                                                 CIECH-     OWL_  OSTRQALEKA R E                       A                                                         RIVERS
WlEtV-P    ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    1                U                     Fhen                                                                                                          CANAL S
SSSKEopoSR.    N  -K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  7                      / ~~~~~~- -- ------  PROVJNCR IWOJEWODZTWOJ ROUNDARIRS
4      I                                       N                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
-  Piece                         K   ~~~~~, qINtPLOCK   97'W
52  /  ,     'S.-   4i<'         Srs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         I,       A<"~~~~~~~~/    '~W "      1P5/E/C   ,cle               oVokr M-
w  xZorr  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   'I  4                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4ARAW' ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ 5'
GORA                   ZNC)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NS")i/                                                               A j(LASK
'N,,,  >   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ThKL~~~~~~~~~~~sZ                                                      C                                 5        25        55        /0       1Q12 MILES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05   1015  1~  IUM:TR
~~    1r ~~                5            1  SIERADZ,,,.      N  crckro           Rodono                 U2BL//NIIO WILL
tELENIAN9NCCA(r1                            ryboooioh    ~~~~~~~~~~,, ~~t~~i                       CHELM\          12 Rooro                                       otrrc.riccrc ii IHELLL T.R.--
JELENi                6~~~CLAWJ                            P/O  TWA?                                         "-'~M.  -, ~l  J, -l .
1*                                                       T ,           TRY&  NAL5K/t                                                       '"  rI'ropiirpl   rSpriToolfikro
LI.  ~      ~         "'C                     ZESTQC    W
. ~~~~~~f                      '                          '_ -f- " '  " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZmocNORWAS                                                                     ESDIO'
TAJZNOBRZEG >                                                                                           '-'. ~S  SWDENRUS51AN
Z    ~ ~ ~ ~ /                   esokoo\p                                                      ZAM05SWDN-N
'k~~~~~~SMoI10nz2okI1"6.  7                                                                                                                             1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E PRDERATION
TiEr,,,, ~~~~~~'1rp.'C~~~~~  on.W~~~~0i'~~~.o            .    I' ~~ElLATVIA 
)rKARLOTLCUMI  'N          KIELCEI    ,       ijorio/ooee8    1              '                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~DENMARK             /      i      1
4~~~~ V f I t    <      ~~~~~~~~~~  wtRZE~~~~~~~~~~ZOW    ;~~~~~~RZLYS                  'T. L                                                       RIJSW'AF) > ono"' WT   5-
50'              CZECH                     Tioo           '                     (B/RELARUS
<           --'   o,o Poe5SU RIEORIN                                                                     POLAND
R EP U  BL IC                                                              '8 A     r'                     U;t                K"                             R Ay                                  7 I> NARIN
1.        "- ~~~~~NOWY SAC'-               KRORNO_                                                                    K   CZRCA"N
K REP          m
Is   JA@~~~~~~~~~~SRIA'N                     181          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S LOV A K  20 R EP U BLIC                22                                 24%,'4SWITZlNi   AUSTRTA?    H/UNGARY'                            RMAI
DCTIDRER 9106



