Report No. PID7088
Project Name                     Poland-Rural Development Project (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sectors                          ECSSD
Project ID                       PLPE58202
Borrower                         Government of Poland
Implementing Agencies            Gminas and Powiats with the assistance of
Voivodship Project Implementing Units
Date this PID Updated            August 31, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        October 7, 1998
Appraisal Date                   July 1999
Projected Board Date             October 1999
Background
1.      The Government of Poland has requested Bank assistance to develop a
project to address current high unemployment in certain rural regions of
Poland, and the anticipated further reduction in agricultural employment
over the coming years as a consequence of the restructuring of the farming
sector. The project is aimed at facilitating the creation of new non-farm
job opportunities in rural areas through an integrated program of
investments in direct assistance for private sector development, human
capital development, and basic infrastructure.
2.      Even though unemployment in Poland has fallen in the last five years
from 16.4% to 12.1%, it is unequally distributed across regions and remains
a key issue for rural Poland. Nearly half of Poland's unemployed live in
rural and mixed (that is, non-municipal) gminas. These rural areas also
bear a disproportionate share of "hidden" unemployment.
3.      Because of the high degree of over-employment, unemployment is
expected to increase in rural areas in the medium to long run. In the post-
reform period, agriculture was a buffer accommodating excess labor in the
economy. In the process of Poland's accession to the EU, the farming system
will need to be reformed, and the number of people employed in agriculture
will have to be reduced to make the sector competitive with other EU
countries. Unemployment in rural areas will then rise because of the
additional outflow of labor from agriculture.
4.      The Government of Poland recognizes the current and potentially
worsening problem of rural unemployment. When the new government took power
in November 1997, the official acceptance speech of the Prime Minister
underlined the need for rural area development by promoting job creation
through investments in infrastructure and support for small and medium non-
agricultural entrepreneurs. The Midterm Agriculture and Rural Development
Strategy endorsed by the Council of the Ministers on 21 April 1998
reinforces this position. A key priority in the government program is rural
development through reliance on local initiatives and support for new jobs



in non-agricultural sectors. Developed infrastructure is perceived as a
pre-condition for expansion of non-agriculture rural entrepreneurs, who
also need access to financial, legal and technical resources. In reforming
education in rural areas, the Government plans redesigned education
programs to include local opportunities for employment in non-agricultural
sectors.
Objectives
5.      The project objectives are to: (i) increase the level of off-farm
employment in rural areas, (ii) contribute to the on-going decentralization
of self-government and regional development, and (iii) help Poland build
institutional capacity to absorb EU pre-accession and structural funds. The
project will finance investments in private sector development, education,
training, and rural infrastructure, that will directly and indirectly
support the creation of new non-farm economic activities in the
countryside. The investments include both selected physical works and
intangibles such as skills, knowledge and the development of aptitude and
industrial operational discipline. Infrastructure investments for physical
works will be designed to upgrade essential services required for new
business development and good living conditions (e.g, water, waste
management, transportation, etc.). While not focused on improvements to
Poland's performance in the agriculture sector per se, the project will
benefit that sector indirectly.
6.      The project will support the government's efforts toward EU accession
by helping to narrow the gap between rural and urban areas in economic
development. By linking with the EU pre-accession (and accession)
initiatives for rural development, environment, employment and agriculture,
the program will enable the government to use available resources (credits,
grants, human capital) with maximum efficiency. In keeping with recent
trends in the EU member countries, the program will assist Poland in making
the fundamental shift from purely agricultural to mixed use of the
countryside, reflecting new attitudes and needs of rural, urban and
suburban communities.
Description
7.      It is anticipated that investments will be directed to sub-projects
that are identified by local governments (rural and mixed gminas and
powiats), working when appropriate in partnership with businesses and NGOs.
The specific investments may be drawn from the categories described within
the project components. Based on the government's priorities as reflected
in the project objectives, the following major components have been
identified:
Component A - Private Sector Development
Component B - Human Capital Development
Component C - Infrastructure
Component D - Program Management and Technical Assistance
8.      The project is designed so that elements from each component are to
be implemented in an integrated manner at the local level. For example, a
gmina may identify the need for waste-water treatment investment, training
for several unemployed in business management, and a credit to help an
-2 -



entrepreneur start a small business. A package of services and investments
will then be developed to meet these needs, drawing on resources across all
project components.
Implementation
9.      The project will be implemented in seven voivodships: Kujawsko-
Pomorskie, Lubelskie, Malopolskie, Podkarpackie, Swietokrzyskie, Warmisko-
Mazurskie and Zachodniopomorskie. Institutional and implementation
arrangements for the proposed project are designed to ensure the efficient
and transparent achievement of the project objectives. The project will
have two main levels of decision-making: (i) gminas and regional self-
governments will have the programming and implementation function; (ii) the
central government will have a coordination and support function.
10.     Each participating gmina, powiat and region (new voivodship) will
identify and develop, with assistance from the project, as appropriate, the
specific investments in private sector development, training/education and
infrastructure needed to promote economic growth and job creation. These
investments will be managed through an integrated implementation system, to
help ensure that each component reinforces the others and contributes to
achieving the program objectives of sustainable economic growth and
employment generation.
Sustainability
11.     Early involvement of stakeholders and beneficiaries, as well as
substantial stakeholder equity, ensures sustainability. A project
management structure and a maintenance plan for the infrastructure created,
including sustained annual budgeting and appropriate user fees will be an
obligatory part of the design of each sub-project.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
12.     The project design reflects the realization that an integrated,
multidisciplinary, decentralized program should prove more effective than
would separate projects or components for private sector development,
training and education, and infrastructure investment. Analysis of past and
ongoing projects sponsored by a wide range of organizations (Bank,
EU/Phare, NGOs, Polish government) has been carried out to draw more
specific lessons and guidance regarding targeting beneficiaries, most
effective implementation modalities, identification and selection of
investments, and to highlight unmet needs in the target regions.
Environmental Aspects
13.     Sub-projects will be identified and prepared at local levels. Since
funds will flow through intermediate institutions, the FI category is
considered most appropriate.
Contact point:
Piotr Wilczynski,
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
-3-



1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433 USA
tel: (202) 473-2513
fax: (202) 477-3285
email: pwilczynski@worldbank.org
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 3, 1999.
- 4 -



