Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7013 POL
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 25, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7013 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Plan” means the annual work plan for the Project, 
referred in Part A (4) (b) (iv)  of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
“ARMA” means the Agency for the Reconstruction and 
Modernization of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(c)
“Beneficiary” means a person eligible, according to the 
Operational Manual, for the receipt of financing for the carrying out of 
an off-farm investment under Part A of the Project;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (7); set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Financing Agreement” means any of the agreements referred 
to in Part B (2) (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
“Funding Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to 
in Part B (2) (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Gmina” means the basic self-government unit as defined in 
Polish law; 
(i)
“Infrastructure Investment” means an investment for rural 
infrastructure, as defined in the Operational Manual, to be carried out 
under Part C of the Project; 
(j)
“LRP” means the Labor Redeployment Program to be implemented 
by the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy in accordance with criteria 
set forth in the Operational Manual;
(k)
“MARD” means the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Development of the Borrower;
(l)
“Marszalek” means the head of the elected self-government 
board of a voivodship;
(m)
“Micro-credit” means a credit for an off-farm investment, 
under Part A of the Project;
(n)
“Ministries” means the ministries of the Borrower involved 
in the carrying out of the Project, and represented in the NSC, namely, 
the MARD and the Ministries of Finance, Economy, Labor and Social Policy, 
Education, and Interior and Public Administration;
Page  3
(o)
“NSC” means the National Steering Committee, established 
under the chairmanship of the Minister of MARD and with representatives 
from the Ministries to oversee the implementation of the Project and to 
facilitate actions required in connection therewith at the policy level;
(p)
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual setting 
forth the responsibilities, arrangements and procedures for Project 
implementation, dated April 11, 2000, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(q)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, located within 
the Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture of MARD, an 
independent agency, reporting to the Minister of MARD and assuming the 
responsibility of managing the implementation of the Project;
(r)
“Powiat” means a local self-government community with 
jurisdiction over such territory as defined in Polish law; 
(s)
“Project Team” means a project management unit established 
in a Ministry for purposes of the Project;
(t)
“Project Management Report” means any of the Project 
Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(u)
“Service Provider” means a non governmental entity selected 
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual for 
the provision of Micro-credit under Part A of the Project;
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(w)
“RSC” means a Regional Steering Committee established at the 
voivodship level for purposes of the Project;
(x)
“Treasury Bank” means a Polish banking institution selected 
by the Borrower for the provision of Micro-credits;
(y)
“Voivodship” means a regional self-government community 
(also the largest administrative unit) as defined in Polish law; and
(z)
“VPIU” means an agency eligible under the Operational 
Manual, and contracted by the relevant Marszalek to
assist in the 
management of activities to be carried therein under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to one hundred eighteen million and eight hundred thousand Euro 
(EUR 118,800,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect 
Page  4
of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one million one hundred eighty eight thousand Euro 
(EUR 1,188,000). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) from the date on which such charge commences to accrue in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions 
to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment and other charges shall be 
payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each 
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the Principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provision of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; 
and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 9 (a) of 
Page  5
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
through the Project entities, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, engineering and rural development practices, 
and ensure the provision, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Arrangements set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and 
accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
Page  7
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the PCU has been staffed in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
(b)
Funding Agreements have been signed in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B (2) (a) of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement between the 
NSC and not less than five marszaleks, and the VPIUs for the relevant 
voivodships have been contracted;
(c)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been established for the project; and
(d)
a short list of auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
prepared for purposes of selection of the auditor referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
Page  8
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
ul. Swietokrzyska 12
00-916 Warszawa 
Republic of Poland
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINF
825592 minf pl or
48 22 
826-03-00
Poland
814386 minf pl
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the City of Warsaw, Poland, as of the day and 
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
By /s/ Artur Balazs
   /s/ Krzysztof J. Ners
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Page  9
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Euro)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   57,030,000
35%
(2)
Goods 
    6,230,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
   22,150,000
100%
and training 
(4)
Audits
      620,000
84%
(5)
Labor redeployment
   19,660,000
49%
(6)
Micro-credit under
   10,310,000
75%
Part A of the Project
(7)
Operating costs
    1,612,000
85% until
EUR 790,000 has
been disbursed
and 50%
thereafter
(8)
Fee
    1,188,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
TOTAL
118,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means costs under the Project 
with respect of office supplies and materials, transport, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, rentals in respect of Project implementation, 
and salaries of non-government staff of the PCU and VPIUs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments on account of Micro-credit under Category (5) 
unless the Bank has been satisfied that such Micro-credit is provided 
through a Service Provider which is selected in accordance with the 
Operational Manual and which is satisfying the requirements set forth in 
Part C (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) works under contracts 
Page  10
costing less than EUR 3,000,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under 
contracts costing less than EUR 200,000 equivalent each, except for the 
contracts referred to in Part E. 2 (ii) of Section I of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; (c) labor redeployment under Category (4) of the table in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (d) Micro-credit under Category (5) of said 
table; (e) operating cost under Category (6) of said table; and (f) 
services under contracts costing less than EUR 100,000 equivalent each 
for the employment of consulting firms and less than EUR 25,000 each for 
the employment of individual consultants, under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit 
account, in the National Bank of Poland, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Page  11
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to 
EUR 10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to EUR 5,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of EUR 20,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
Page  12
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each 
such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of EUR 20,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the level of 
off-farm employment in rural areas; (b) contribute to the on-going 
decentralization of self-government and regional development; and (c) 
assist Poland in building the institutional capacity to manage 
Page  13
pre-accession and structural funds.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Micro-credit
Provision, through Services Providers, of Micro-credit to 
unemployed and to small entrepreneurs (the Beneficiaries) for the 
financing of income-generating, non-farm investments; and (b) provisions 
of training and business advice to Beneficiaries in the operation and 
management of their businesses.
Part B:
Human Capital Development
(1)
Labor Redeployment: (a) the carrying out of labor market surveys, 
and (b) implementation and financing, through LRP, of labor redeployment 
services, small business assistance, employment services and other 
related services.
(2)
Education: implementation of measures to improve the education and 
training system in the rural area, including the carrying out of programs 
designed to: (a) improve the quality of school equipment; (b) support the 
introduction of computers for instructional purposes; and (c) improve 
school and other educational facilities; and (d) improve teaching quality 
in primary schools and gymnasia.
(3)
Implementation of measures to increase the efficiency of selected 
units of local and regional governments, including measures to improve 
their finance and human resource management, training of their staff and 
the carrying out of evaluation to assess the impact of the measures being 
implemented.
Part C:
Rural Infrastructure
(1) 
The financing of infrastructure investments for rural development, 
selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual.
(2)
Training of the technical staff of vivodships in the Project Area 
in the planning, finance, management and operation of municipal 
infrastructure, and the review of infrastructure investments.
(3)
Technical assistance to VPIU’s staff, regional offices of ARMA and 
local government officials in the review of investment proposals.
(4)
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of the infrastructure 
investments’ cost and initial impact, and of a comprehensive evaluation 
study towards the end of implementation of said investments.
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, auditing services, training and 
equipment for purposes of management of project implementation, and to 
assist in the Project monitoring and evaluation activities.
* * *
Page  14
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 2005
through March 15, 2015
5.0%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
Page  15
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $760,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provision of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Goods and works under Micro-credit
Page  16
Goods and works required for the carrying out of investment to be 
financed from Micro-credit under Part A of the Project shall be procured 
by Beneficiaries through the methods specified in the Operational Manual.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,090,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
5.
LRP
Procurement of items under Part B (1) of the Project shall be 
undertaken in accordance with procedures consistent with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Specific Provisions Concerning Part C of the Project
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the procurement methods 
described in Parts B, C 1, C 2, and C 5 of Section I of this Schedule 
shall apply to the procurement of items under Part C of the Project, 
estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of about $54,550,000.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and (ii) the first contract by the PCU, 
each VPIU and each Ministry, to be awarded under the procedures referred 
to in Part C (1) and C (2) of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  17
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for beneficiary evaluation studies under Part B(3) for the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Page  18
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms for estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Arrangements
A.
General Arrangements
1.
NSC: the Borrower shall assign the responsibility for supervising 
and coordinating the implementation of the Project to NSC, and shall, for 
this purpose, maintain NSC until the completion of the Project under 
operating procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
2. 
Operational Manual: the Borrower shall cause the Ministries and 
other entities involved in Project implementation to carry out their 
activities thereunder in accordance with the rules and procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual. 
3.
Environmental Requirements:  The Borrower shall take all necessary 
measures to ensure that the selection and implementation of activities 
under the Project shall be undertaken in full compliance with relevant 
environmental standards and requirements in Poland.
4.
PCU: (a) the Borrower shall cause MARD to assign the responsibility 
of overall management of Project implementation to the PCU, acting within 
the Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture of MARD, and shall 
maintain the PCU until the completion of the Project with resources, 
staff, facilities and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
Responsibilities of the PCU shall include: (i) coordination 
of the activities of the Project Teams and the VPIUs under the Project; 
(ii) supervision of the preparation of bid and contract documents under 
the Project; (iii) management of the Project financial system and 
arranging for the audit of Project accounts; (iv) preparation, based on 
proposals from the Project entities and with the approval of NSC, in each 
year during the period of Project implementation, of an annual work Plan 
(Annual Plan) for the following year, setting forth the activities to be 
carried out thereunder, together with the procurement and financing 
arrangements thereof; (v) preparation, based on the monitoring indicators 
set forth in the Operational Manual, of semi-annual progress reports on 
Project implementation, and furnishing the same to NSC and the Bank; and 
Page  19
(vi) development in agreement with the Bank, of modifications to the 
eligibility criteria and levels of support under the Project and 
submission of the same for approval by NSC.
B.
Preparation and Funding of investments under the Project
1.
Preparation Procedures:
The following procedures shall be followed in the preparation of 
investments under the Project:
(a)
each Gminas shall prepare, in consultation with the relevant 
Powiat and with the assistance of the technical services for Project 
management to be provided under Part C of the Project, a list of 
investments to be carried out within it under the Project.  With respect 
to proposals for infrastructure investments under Part C of the Project, 
without limitation to the provisions of the Operational Manual, the 
following procedures shall apply: (i) each proposal shall be submitted to 
the relevant local office of ARMA, which shall examine the proposal 
against the eligibility criteria included in the Operational Manual and 
perform financial and economic analysis with respect thereof; (ii) the 
proposal, after being evaluated by said local office shall thereafter be 
sent to the relevant VPIU and RSC, with copy to the applicant; and (iii) 
further processing of proposals shall be undertaken in accordance with 
the procedures described in sub-paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this 
paragraph;
(b)
The Borrower, acting through MARD, shall take all necessary 
measures to ensure, by March 31, 2000, that local offices of ARMA shall 
have: (i) the capacity needed to review the economic, financial, 
technical and environmental aspects of proposed infrastructure 
investments; and (ii) a financial management system satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(c)
Thereafter, the relevant VPIU shall review the proposed 
investments to ascertain compliance in their preparation with regional 
development policies;
(d)
investments proposals shall thereupon be sent to the 
relevant RSC which shall rank such proposals in accordance with the order 
of priority set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(e)
The NSC will allocate funds among the various voivodships 
based on criteria for the appropriate allocation of investment funds 
among the various regions. These criteria will be developed by the PCU in 
agreement with the World Bank and submitted for approval by the NSC. 
2.
Funding of Investments:
(a)
The Funding Agreements:
The allocation of funds under the Project shall be formalized under 
a Funding Agreement to be concluded between the NSC, represented by the 
Minister of MARD, and the relevant Marszalek.  The Funding Agreement 
shall be concluded on the basis of a standard format agreed upon with the 
Bank and shall provide, inter alia, for:
(i)
the amount to be made available to the voivodship;
(ii)
a description of the investments to be carried out in 
Page  20
utilization of such 
amount;
(iii)
the implementation arrangements for the investments, 
including a detailed 
description of the funding 
resources for investments to be carried out in each 
Gmina 
under the Project;
(iv)
the conditions under which funds shall be transferred 
from the Special Account 
(and from other resources) for 
purposes of investments under the Project;
(v)
the procurement of goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds 
of the Loan in accordance 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Loan 
Agreement;
(vi)
the maintenance, in accordance with Polish law, of 
separate records and 
accounts for investments 
under the Project;
(vii)
the format for the quarterly reports to be submitted 
to the RSC on progress in 
the carrying out of the 
investments;
(viii) the obligation of Marszalek to cooperate with the PCU 
and other relevant 
entities, in accordance with the 
procedures described in the Operational 
Manual, 
on all matters concerning the coordination and supervision of Project 
implementation;
(ix)
the authority of the NSC to make such periodic 
adjustments to amounts 
earmarked under the Funding 
Agreement as shall be justified by reasons related 
to 
progress in the implementation of investments, or to changes in the scope 
of investments or in their estimated cost; and
(x)
the obligation of Marszalek to maintain the relevant 
VPIU with adequate 
resources and staffing.
(b)
The Financing Agreements:
Upon its conclusion of a Funding Agreement with the NSC, the 
Marszalek of each voivodship shall enter into a Financing Agreement with 
each gmina or powiat within its territory for the funding of investments 
to be carried out within such gmina or powiat under the Project.  The 
Financing Agreement shall be concluded on the basis of a format agreed 
upon with the PCU and the Bank and shall provide, inter alia, for:
(i)
a general description of investments to be carried 
out within the  or powiat 
under the Project;
(ii)
an estimate of funds to be made available to the 
gmina or powiat for the 
carrying out of such 
investments, together with the financing charges, if any, 
applicable thereto;
(iii)
the financing plan for the carrying out of such 
investments, including an 
estimate of amounts to be 
contributed for this purpose from the gmina’s or 
Page  21
powiat’s own resources;
(iv)
the assignment of the responsibility for financial 
management of amounts to be 
made available to the gmina 
or powiat to the finance department of the voivoda 
office, 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the operational manual; 
(v)
the procurement of goods, works and services to be 
financed from the proceeds 
of the Loan in accordance 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Loan 
Agreement;
(vi)
the maintenance, in accordance with Polish law, of 
separate records and 
accounts for investments 
under the Project;
(vii)
the obligation of the gmina or powiat to undertake 
implementation of 
investments with the technical 
assistance of the relevant VPIU and in 
accordance 
with the arrangements set forth in the Operational Manual;
(viii) the authority of the Marszalek to make such periodic 
adjustments to amounts 
earmarked under the Financing 
Agreement as shall be necessary to correspond to 
adjustments made to the Funding Agreement according to paragraph (a) (ix) 
above; and
(ix)
the obligation of Marszalek to cooperate with the PCU 
and other relevant 
entities, in accordance with the 
procedures described in the Operational 
Manual, 
on all matters concerning the coordination and supervision of Project 
implementation.
C.
Micro-credit
(1)
Micro-credit under Part A of the Project shall be provided through 
Service Providers, selected in each voivodship in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; such criteria shall 
include, inter alia, that the Service Provider has in place a financial 
management and internal control system satisfactory to PCU and the Bank.
(2)
Upon qualifying a Service Provider for the provision of 
Micro-credit under Part A of the Project, the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego 
(BGK), operating as an agent of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, 
shall enter into a contract with such Service Provider, in accordance 
with the arrangements set forth in the Operational Manual whereby: (a) 
the Service Provider shall be provided with the amount of the Loan to be 
used by it for the provision of Micro-credit; and (b) the Service 
Provider shall ensure that, on average, no less than 25% of the 
Micro-credits shall be funded from the Service Provider own resources.
(3)
The extension of any Micro-credit to Beneficiaries shall be made 
under a contract to be concluded between the Services Provider and the 
Beneficiary, on terms and conditions which shall substantially be in 
conformity with a standard format satisfactory to the Bank, including 
provisions whereby the Beneficiary shall be required: (a) to implement 
the activities for which the Micro-credit is extended in accordance with 
the arrangements and the time-frame stipulated in the contract; (b) to 
make debt service payments with respect to the Micro-credit in accordance 
with the terms indicated in the Operational Manual; (c) to procure goods 
and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Micro-credit in 
accordance with the procurement methods set forth in the Operational 
Manual; (d) to report periodically to the relevant VPIU on progress in 
the implementation of activities financed from the proceeds of the 
Micro-credit, and to enable representatives of the VPIU to inspect such 
Page  22
activities; and (e) to maintain financial records adequate to reflect 
expenditures incurred in connection with the carrying out of such 
activities.
D.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2002, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2002, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
