                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001614


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72200)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 104.4 MILLION
                       (US$130.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                      FOR AN

     EDUCATION PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE
        EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (EQIP II)



                                  March 28, 2011




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 2003)
                         Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
                                 TND 1.28 = US$1.00
                                 US$0.78 = TND 1.00

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 – December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANPE     Agence nationale pour la protection de       LCS      Least-Cost Selection
         1’environnement (National
         Environmental Protection Agency)
APC      Approche par compétence (Skills-Based        MDG      Millennium Development Goals
         Approach to Teaching and Learning)
APL      Adaptable Program Lending                    MET      Ministry of Education and Training
                                                               (Ministre de l’éducation et de la
                                                               formation)
BEPP     Bureau des études, de la planification et    MPWH     Ministry of Public Works and Housing
         de la programmation (Office of                        (Ministre de l’équipement et de
         Research and Planning)                                l’habitat)
CNIPFG   Centre national d’innovation                 NBF      Non-Bank Financed
         pédagogique et de recherche en
         éducation (Education Research Center)
CQ       Selection Based on Consultants’              NCB      National Competitive Bidding
         Qualifications

CREFOC   Centre régional de formation continue        OED      Operations Evaluation Department
         (Regional In-Service Teacher Training
         Center)
DBE      Direction des bâtiments et de                OM       Operations Manual
         l’équipement (Buildings and Equipment
         Division)
DGSC     Direction générale des services              PCN      Project Concept Note
         communs (General Administration
         Department)
DRE      Direction régionale de l’éducation           PIC      Public Information Center
         (MET Regional Office)
EQIP     Education Quality Improvement Project        PID      Project Information Document

IAPSO    Inter-Agency Procurement Services            PSR      Project Supervision Report
         Office (United Nations)
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction        QBS      Quality-Based Selection
         and Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding            QCBS     Quality- and Cost-Based Selection




                                                 ii
ICR     Implementation Completion Report               SBD      Standard Bidding Documents

ICT     Information and communication                  SEC      Secondary Education (Grades 10- 13)
        technologies                                            [lycée]
IFC     International Finance Corporation              SFB      Selection under a Fixed Budget

INBMI   Institut national de bureautique et de         SOE      Statement o f Expenditures
        micro-informatique (National Institute
        for School Information Technology)
INS     Institut national de la statistique            SSS      Single Source Selection
        (National Statistics Institute)
ISDS    Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet               TIMSS    Third International Mathematics and
                                                                Science Survey
LIB     Limited International Bidding                  TND      Tunisian Dinar

LBE     Lower Basic Education (Grades 1-6)             UBE      Upper Basic Education (Grades 7-9)
        [école primaire]                                        [collège]



                             Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
                           Country Director: Simon Gray
                   Sector Manager/Director: Mourad Ezzine/Steen Jorgensen
                      Project Team Leader: Adriana Jaramillo
                          ICR Main Author: Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla




                                                 iii
                                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                             Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP) II



                                                                 CONTENTS



DATA SHEET

       A. BASIC INFORMATION
       B. KEY DATES
       C. RATINGS SUMMARY
       D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES
       E. BANK STAFF
       F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS
       G. RATINGS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN ISRS
       H. RESTRUCTURING
       I. DISBURSEMENT GRAPH




1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ................................................. 1
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES .............................................. 11
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES .................................................................................................................. 17
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME ................................................................... 21
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................................... 22
6. LESSONS LEARNED ..................................................................................................................................... 25
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS . 27
ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .......................................................................................... 28
ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT ........................................................................................................ 30
ANNEX 3. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES ..... 35
ANNEX 4. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ..................... 37
ANNEX 5. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ....................................................................................... 39




                                                                           iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Education Quality
Country:                Tunisia                   Project Name:             Improvement Program
                                                                            (EQIP) Phase 2
Project ID:             P082999                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72200
ICR Date:               03/30/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                       Borrower:
                                                                            TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 130.3M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 129.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 130.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION ET DE LA FORMATION
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/14/2003      Effectiveness:             05/24/2004        05/24/2004
Appraisal:             11/25/2003      Restructuring(s):                            06/13/2008
Approval:              03/08/2004      Mid-term Review:                             10/10/2006
                                       Closing:                   06/30/2008        09/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower            Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                Unsatisfactory




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     12                  12
Primary education                                                     40                  40
Secondary education                                                   40                  40
Sub-national government administration                                8                    8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     50                  50
Education for the knowledge economy                                   50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Neil Simon M. Gray                   Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Mourad Ezzine                        Regina Maria Bendokat
Project Team Leader:       Adriana Jaramillo                    Jeffrey Waite
ICR Team Leader:           Adriana Jaramillo
ICR Primary Author:        Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Promote excellence in teaching and learning throughout the school sector, while
continuing the push for the inclusion of all children at all levels of the basic education
system.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target         Formally    Actual Value
                                           Values (from            Revised     Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                             approval              Target     Completion or
                                           documents)              Values     Target Years

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                         Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                         Target Years

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                            IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    07/12/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.68
  2    02/18/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     7.88
  3    12/16/2005          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            18.77
  4    07/22/2006          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            38.47
  5    12/27/2006          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            47.19
  6    06/19/2007          Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            59.96
                                                        Moderately
  7    11/02/2007          Satisfactory                                               72.50
                                                      Unsatisfactory
  8    06/28/2008          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   89.06
  9    12/21/2008          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   96.05
 10    06/26/2009          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  104.67
 11    12/30/2009          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  108.84
 12    05/26/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  119.62
 13    09/23/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  122.55


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/13/2008               S       S          86.43




                                             iii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.      This project was the second phase of the Education Quality Improvement
Program (EQIP II), a two-phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL) that was prepared in
a stable economic, political and demographic context. The implementation of EQIP I,
designed to support the Government of Tunisia’s ambitious national education reform
known as “School of Tomorrow,? was satisfactory, and the performance triggers set for
the transition to the second phase of the APL were fully met.

2.      The “School of Tomorrow? education reform was developed around five main
areas: (i) revamping curricula and teaching and learning methods as well as improving
the evaluation system of all levels; (ii) professionalizing teaching through a reform of the
in-service training of teachers and principals, and revising the roles and responsibilities of
teaching personnel; (iii) decentralizing the education system and creating more space for
civil society to play a greater role; (iv) making the education system more equitable and
inclusive; and (v) modernizing schools by integrating new information technologies into
curricula and management.

3.     The first phase of EQIP advanced very well the implementation of this ambitious
reform, and the triggers for the second phase of EQIP were fully met by 2004 as follows:

   (i) Generalization of competency-based learning for grades 3 and 4 in all schools,
        completed by the beginning of the school-year 2003-2004, including all grade 5
        teachers trained.
   (ii) Generalization of two-grade sub-cycles in grades 1 through 4 in all schools was
        completed by the beginning of the 2003-2004 school year.
   (iii) Extension of school self-assessments, as defined by school charters in at least 25
        percent of schools. This was completed in 90 percent of schools.
   (iv) Development of a sector-wide strategy to manage student flows was completed.

4.      Among EQIP I achievements, it is important to underline the increased student
transition rate from basic into secondary education, mainly because of the abolition of the
‘entrance’ exam into secondary. As a consequence, repetition and dropout rates decreased
dramatically in Lower Basic Education (LBE). To monitor learning outcomes, a national
exam was introduced at the end of grade 4, to be complemented with results from the
Trends in Mathematics and Science Test (TIMSS). However, repetition rates and
dropouts in secondary continued to be a problem, and the anticipated expansion of that
level of education would clearly increase the size of the challenge. Therefore, the
challenge for the Government was to respond to the increasing diversity of secondary
education students by widening the range of education opportunities and improving the
conditions for teaching and learning.

5.      Education expenditure as a share of total public expenditure and GDP was already
significant, and that share could not be expected to increase. Given the rapid increase in




                                              1
the number of students entering secondary, it was reasonable to expect the Government to
look for cost-effective solutions that would guarantee the fiscal sustainability of its
ambitious reform program. The second phase of EQIP was designed to support critical
parts of the Education Action Plan, and therefore to fit into the Government’s overall
education strategy. The project was meant to contribute to a better qualified labor force
capable of competing in the global economy, by: (i) developing better links between
secondary education, on the one hand, and vocational training and higher education
institutions, and the labor market, on the other; and (ii) diversifying the secondary
education curriculum in ways that would be more relevant to the needs of the Tunisian
society and economy.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

6.      Tunisia’s political and economic context had been reasonably stable for many
years, and education has been a priority sector for decades. The Bank has a long tradition
of support to the sector. At appraisal, the most recent CAS approved in April 2000
proposed Bank support for the Government in three major directions: (a) consolidating
long-term development, mainly through human resource development, natural resource
management, transport, rural development and municipal development; (b) supporting
economic reform to enhance competitiveness and increase employment; and (c)
promoting new initiatives that strengthen local institutions, launch new development
niches, and mobilize external finance.

7.      At appraisal it was already noted that pressure on the labor market would
intensify, both as a result of steady demographic growth and as a consequence of stiffer
competition faced by Tunisian enterprises due to international trade. Likewise, the
education-related challenges were identified, mainly the need to meet the requirements of
a diversified student population in secondary education. This, as already discussed, was a
result of higher completion rates in primary or LBE. Therefore the emphasis on
improving quality of education was at the core of the Government’s Education Strategy
2002-2007.

8.      The Government identified the following four main policy goals for the education
sector around which the planned education reform and the EQIP II were to be aligned: (a)
extending improvements aimed at better learning outcomes to the most vulnerable
children, so as to achieve full LBE completion by 2015; (b) responding to the increasing
diversity of the secondary education population by widening the range of education
opportunities; (c) enabling the secondary school system to be attuned to, and then adapt
to, the needs of the Tunisian economy; and (d) taking advantage of the “lull? in the size
of the LBE student population by focusing resources in cost-effective ways on quality
improvements. These challenges have led the Government to place quality improvement
at the heart of its education strategy for 2002-2007.

9.       World Bank intervention in the area of quality and inclusion was both timely and
critical, as both issues were and still are at the forefront of the Government’s education




                                            2
agenda. In the areas of introduction of new technologies, evaluation and research, the
Bank could share years of global experience with the introduction of alternative models,
as well as access to first-rate expertise in these areas. In other areas, such as secondary
education and career information and guidance, the Bank was then undertaking
institution-wide work that could greatly benefit the project. Finally, the Bank’s long-term
support through a two-phase, flexible APL was particularly valuable given the fiscal
constraints, and particularly in light of the major investments needed as a result of rapid
enrollment growth in upper basic and secondary education.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

Development objectives

10.    The overall purpose of the Project was to support the Government’s objectives to
achieve near-universal completion of basic education, to provide a greater number of
students with opportunities for post-basic education; and to modernize the sector in ways
that would improve the quality of outputs and the efficiency with which they are
produced.

11.     The PAD indicates that the original project objective was to promote excellence
in teaching and learning throughout the school sector, while continuing the push for the
inclusion of all children at all levels of the basic education system.

12.    Per the Loan Agreement, the objectives of the Project were to assist the Borrower
in reinforcing the process of reforming its education sector through: (a) promoting
excellence in teaching and learning in an improved pedagogical and physical
environment; and (b) ensuring that all children are provided with equitable and adequate
opportunities to access quality education at all levels of the Borrower’s school system.

13.    For the purpose of this ICR, since the wording of the PDO is different in the PAD
and the Loan Agreement, we will be evaluating the one in the PAD.

Key performance indicators

14.     Progress against the above-mentioned objectives was to be measured by
enrollment and completion rates, disaggregated by gender, and then by the share of non-
salary expenditures in the education budget and the ratio of students per computer. The
indicators were defined according to principles of relevance, measurability, feasibility
and simplicity. Even more importantly, the choice of indicators and targets was suggested
by the Government of Tunisia (GOT) in line with their own education reform goals and
targets. The enrollment rates were categorized by gender and age groups (6-11 year-olds;
6-16 year-olds; 12-18 year-olds); while the primary education completion rate was
classified by gender only. Intermediate targets for each of the outcome indicators were
sequenced as follows:




                                            3
                                 Base Value               2004-05                          2005-06                        2006-07                2007-08         2008-09         2009-10
                                   2003-04       Target       Achievement         Target       Achievement       Target         Achievement     Achievement     Achievement    Achievement
           Enrollment rate of 6-11 year-olds
              Girls                   97,0%       97,2%             97,0%         97,3%              97,1%        97,5%             97,3%            97,4%         98,0%           98,5%
              Boys                    96,8%       97,0%             96,9%         97,1%              97,0%        97,2%             97,3%            97,3%         97,4%           97,9%
              All                     97,0%                         97,0%                            97,1%                          97,3%            97,4%         97,7%           98,2%
           Enrollment rate of 6-16 year-olds
              Girls                   91,0%       91,2%             91,0%         91,4%              90,8%        91,6%             91,1%            92,2%         92,4%           92,8%
              Boys                    90,0%       90,2%             90,0%         90,4%              89,8%        90,6%             90,0%            91,1%         90,4%           91,3%
              All                     90,5%                         90,5%                            90,3%                          90,5%            91,6%         91,4%           92,1%
           Enrollment rate of 12-18 year-olds
              Girls                   77,5%       78,0%             78,0%         78,2%              77,7%        78,4%             78,7%            79,9%         78,9%           81,4%
              Boys                    73,5%       74,0%             73,0%         74,2%              72,6%        74,4%             73,5%            74,4%         72,1%           74,7%
              All                     75,4%                         75,5%                            75,1%                          76,1%            77,1%         75,4%           78,0%


                    15.     Thus, in terms of enrolment performance indicators, considerable progress has
                    been made throughout project implementation, showing unequivocally that the reforms
                    have produced the desired results in that regard. This is particularly the case concerning
                    the expansion of access to the second cycle of basic education and to secondary education
                    as a whole (net enrollment rate reaching over 92% for the former and 78% for the latter).
                    For all three indicators, targets set at the start of the project were exceeded by the time of
                    the revised project closing date.

                                 Base Value        2003-04                    2004-05                        2005-06                       2006-07             2007-08         2008-09        2009-10
                                   2002-03    Target   Achievement       Target    Achievement        Target    Achievement       Target      Achievement     Achievement     Achievement    Achievement
Completion rate of Basic Education
  Girls                              60,1% 61,3%            62,5% 63,7%                62,8%          66,2%        64,0% 69,5%                   65,1%           66,4%           68,6%          69,0%
  Boys                               42,5% 42,9%            41,5% 43,9%                41,9%          45,5%        42,6% 48,0%                   44,3%           46,3%           49,1%          51,0%
  All                                                       51,4%                      51,9%                       53,1%                         54,6%           55,8%           58,6%          60,7%
Completion Rates of Secondary
  Girls                              45,5% 64,7%            66,7% 69,7%                62,2%          69,2%        56,8% 67,9%                   56,1%           61,1%           61,6%          60,6%
  Boys                               42,9% 51,7%            53,0% 56,6%                48,2%          54,3%        42,6% 54,3%                   41,9%           46,0%           46,5%          45,3%
  All                                                       61,0%                      54,8%                       50,3%                         49,6%           54,3%           54,7%          53,7%
Share of non-salary expenditures
  First stage of BE                   2,5%    2,5%            2,7%       2,5%              2,6%        2,5%            2,7%       2,5%               2,7%          3,3%           3,4%           3,2%
  2nd cycle of BE and Secondar        6,4%    6,4%            5,5%       6,4%              5,3%        6,4%            5,2%       6,4%               4,6%          4,7%           4,5%           4,5%
Ratio of students per computer
  First stage of BE                    129      106            120          83                74          60               46        36                34             29              26             23
  Second stage of BE                     99      91            109          84                86          76               50        69                49             37              28             23
  Secondary                              45      38                 65      30                60          23               35        15                33             26              20             19


                    16.      Indicators concerning completion rates in both basic and secondary education
                    attest to the improvement of internal efficiency of the education system throughout the




                                                                                               4
years of project implementation. However, while the targets set for basic education were
comfortably met by project closing, this is clearly not the case with regard to secondary
education. Furthermore, the evolution of this indicator appears at first sight extremely
volatile, which immediately casts doubt as to whether it can really reflect the impact of
project interventions. It is in fact not easy to account for a 20-point increase in the
secondary education completion rate only one year after project implementation. And the
same goes for the decrease of roughly 10 points over the next two years. Thus, the
extreme volatility of this indicator during the first three years of project implementation
could only be explained either by the low quality of data collection or by the impact of a
variable that was not considered when choosing the indicator. It appears that the latter is
the case; i.e., that the changes introduced in the Baccalauréat examination during those
years are the key to accounting for the volatility in secondary completion rates during
those years, a variable that is clearly unrelated to project investments and interventions.
By project closing, though, that volatility had disappeared and, while there had also been
progress in secondary completion rates for both boys and girls, the original targets were
not met. Yet, progress accomplished in that indicator – both overall and specifically for
girls – is very impressive, and proportionally much greater than that achieved in primary
education.

17.    The overall improvement in internal efficiency also calls for a nuanced analysis
with regard to gender: Girls show completion rates exceeding those of boys by 18
percentage points in basic education and over 15 percentage points in secondary
education. Even more importantly and more worrying, despite the overall progress in
completion rates between 2003 and 2010, the gap between boys and girls has stayed
exactly the same in basic education and has increased by two points in secondary
education. Thus, the dropout phenomenon in general and that of boys in particular
remains a concern in the second cycle of basic education and in secondary education (see
section 3.3 on efficiency). This is certainly a challenge in every country in the world
where secondary education has been rapidly expanded, which somehow makes Tunisia’s
progress in secondary completion rates more impressive.

18.     Indicators also show that the share of non-salary expenditures in the operating
budgets allocated to the first cycle of basic education has improved from 2.7 percent to
3.2 percent while this ratio has decreased in the second cycle of basic education and
secondary education, partly due to the increase in the teacher/student ratio, which
inevitably resulted in an increase of the salary share in the budget, and partly due to the
fact that the GOT records as “investment? expenditure on ICT equipment and some
learning material which should be clearly considered as non-salary operational
expenditures. The other indicator that was chosen as a proxy for quality of education was
the ratio of students per computer, where targets were by far reached throughout project
implementation.

19.    In addition to the indicators discussed so far, the PAD also referred to the
“National School Quality Monitoring for Grade 4,? which was about to be piloted in
2004 and which was obviously the only chance to have an external systematic and




                                            5
rigorous measure of quality of education. The PAD stated that data from that national
assessment would be considered as part of the overall monitoring and evaluation system,
although no target value would be set, for obvious reasons. The grade 4 national
assessment was eventually implemented but the data was never made available by the
GOT, which prevented its use for project monitoring and evaluation purposes.

20.     While there is no doubt about the relevance of the proposed indicators, it can be
claimed that the considerable gap between projected outputs of the project and the
expected outcomes (with its indicators) is a major shortcoming of this project’s results
framework. All the selected indicators are broad system-level ones, which makes it
difficult to claim any kind of attribution of project interventions to the accomplishment –
or lack thereof– of the target values. The attribution issue was definitely not as important
back in 2003 as it is now in the Bank, but it is still surprising that the project’s
Monitoring and Evaluation system did not contemplate the need to evaluate, for instance,
the levels of use of the equipment procured under Components A or D, the special needs
program in disadvantaged areas, the kindergarten program, or the priority school program
(PEPE), especially given the fact that many of these programs turned out to be very
successful. The Bank team, aware of this shortcoming early during project
implementation, proposed on many occasions to add to the original framework a number
of results indicators that would better fit specific interventions supported by the project.
These included both output and outcome indicators, related to the levels of use and
implementation progress of the different programs financed by the project, including the
competency approach curriculum reform (APC), the introduction of ICTs or the priority
school program. While all this was reflected in detail in the Mid-term Review aide-
memoire, the Borrower did not accept the proposed results indicators and the results
framework reamined unchanged.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

21.    The project development objective was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

22.    The main beneficiaries of this project were:

1. Students aged 6 to 18 (basic education and secondary education) and their families;
2. By focusing on PEPE schools (schools in disadvantaged areas), a major beneficiary
   group was school-aged children from poor families.
3. Another target group was children with mild disabilities;
4. Teachers, school managers, and district education officers were also a beneficiary
   group.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                             6
23.    EQIP II was comprised of four components (10 subcomponents). The first two
components directly tackled the topic of quality in the classroom, while the third one
aimed at updating the school sector management, and the fourth one at improving the
performance of the core systems. The fourth component played an important role in the
implementation of the three first components.

Component A: Inclusive Basic Education

Sub-component A1 (Teaching for Improved Learning Outcomes) US$8.70 Million

24.     The objective of this sub-component was to generalize the skills-based approach
methodologies; modernize the teaching of languages and science; and introduce an
optional studies program in basic education. The activities were: (a) provide technical
support to teams responsible for developing basic education curricula using Approche par
Competences (APC); (b) provide technical support to teams responsible for developing
basic education textbooks and teaching materials using APC methodologies; (c) develop
a learning assessment system for Upper Basic Education (UBE) that fits with APC
methodologies; (d) provide primary schools with copy machines that enable them to
implement child-centered teaching and formative assessment; (e) train UBE teachers in
APC methodologies; (f) provide primary schools with equipment for teaching science;
(g) provide primary schools and colleges with audio-visual equipment; (h) provide
regional in-service teacher training centers (CREFOC) with language laboratories for
training and upgrading English teachers in primary schools; and (i) strengthen training for
LBE and UBE teachers in languages and science.

Sub-component A2 (Equal Schooling Opportunities) US$3.80 Million

25.     The objective of the sub-component was to integrate and mainstream vulnerable
children into regular schools, and to enhance the quality of teaching in schools
performing below regional and national averages, in parallel with the creation of new
kindergarten programs. The activities to be carried out under this sub-component were:
(a) implement a program to progressively integrate disabled children into mainstream
schools; (b) extend and strengthen the Priority Schools Program (PEPE) in primary
schools; (c) establish a pilot program to transfer funds to schools in PEPE to enable them
to implement their School Improvement Scheme; (d) extend and strengthen the PEPE in
colleges; (e) extend and strengthen PEPE in lycées; and (f) establish new kindergarten
classes and disadvantaged areas.

Component B: Diversity in Secondary Education

Sub-component B1 (Diversifying the Secondary Education Curriculum) US$5.60 Million

26.    The objective of this sub-component was to ensure that the secondary education
programs covered the increasingly diverse student population. The activities concerned
were: (a) develop curricula for technology programs; (b) provide technical support to




                                            7
teams responsible for developing textbooks for technology programs; (c) implement new
subject programs; (d) strengthen the teaching capacity of lycées by providing
documentation and training equipment; and (e) evaluate the use of science and
technology teaching materials in UBE and secondary education.

Sub-component B2 (Career Information and Guidance) US$0.06 Million

27.     The objective of this sub-component was to implement a system that would help
students have access to information regarding career paths and education programs. The
activities involved were: (a) establish an Information and Guidance Center to provide
information and guidance on school programs, tertiary education programs and careers;
and (b) develop schools’ capacity–human and physical–to provide career information and
guidance.

Component C: School Sector Management

Sub-component C1 (School-Level Management) US$0.08 Million

28.    The objective of this sub-component was to extend a decentralized and modern
management system for schools and institutions to be able to do their tasks in accordance
with the principles of subsidiarity and efficiency. The activities related to the sub-
component were: (a) set up School Improvement Schemes in schools and Regional
Improvement Schemes in regional MET offices; and (b) establish a regional system of
monitoring, evaluation and support for the School Improvement Scheme.

Sub-component C2 (System-Level Management) US$0.50 Million

29.     The objective of this sub-component was to implement an integrated information
system for management and oversight of the school sector. It was composed of six
activities, as follows: (a) install the EduServ software in schools, to support management
of teaching and administrative tasks; (b) install the MET’s information system in regional
offices and extend the range of functionalities in use in central and regional units; (c)
install a security system in the MET’s EduNet (on-line administrative network) and
extend its functionalities; (d) train EduServ users, as well as other administrators and
technicians using ICT; (e) develop a system for monitoring and evaluating ICT training
programs; and (f) strengthen project monitoring by improving project monitoring
software, developing a training program for project managers, and providing vehicles for
monitoring at the regional level.

Component D: Strengthening Core Systems

Sub-component D1 (Training and Communication) US$1.00 Million

30.    The objective of the sub-component was to launch a strategy to restructure the
teacher training system in order to better fit the Tenth Development Plan training




                                            8
requests; and create a communication strategy to inform both the population and teachers
about the education reforms. It consisted of four activities: (a) modernize and
decentralize teacher training through a study on the development of an in-service training
system (including monitoring and evaluation of training) and implementation of the
results of the study; (b) establish a system of pre-service professional training for
supervisory staff; (c) establish a system of in-service professional training for supervisory
staff; and (d) develop a communications strategy covering the main themes of school
reform (including the PEPE and the integration of disabled children into mainstream
schooling), aimed at teachers and the general public.

Sub-component D2 (Information and Communication Technologies) US$16.00 Million

31.     The objective of this sub-component was to integrate information and
communication technologies (ICT) in the learning experience. The activities concerned
were: (a) integrate ICT into the learning process by: (i) strengthening the importance
given to ICT in curricula at all levels of the school system; (ii) developing ICT guides for
teachers and school management; (iii) integrating ICT into subject-based and
interdisciplinary studies; and (iv) introducing an ICT certification system for students; (b)
ensure that teachers master the use of ICT in their teaching by: (i) developing ICT
training programs; (ii) strengthening the training of ICT teachers trainers; (iii) developing
ICT distance training tools; and (iv) introducing an ICT certification system for teachers;
(c) strengthen the information system infrastructure and network by: (i) extending the
EduNet network at the regional level; (ii) developing educational and cultural sites on
EduNet; (iii) installing and networking computers in schools; and (iv) upgrading and
decentralizing the services of INBMI to better respond to schools’ requirements; (d)
establish a distance learning and training system by: (i) strengthening distance learning
and training platforms; (ii) diversifying the range of distance learning and tutoring
services; and (iii) monitoring and evaluating the activities offered by “virtual schools?;
and (e) increasing the range of appropriate teaching and learning material available in
digital form by: (i) producing multimedia digital teaching and learning material; and (ii)
purchasing multimedia digital teaching and learning material.

Sub-component D3 (Assessment and Evaluation) US$0.60 Million

32.     The objective of this sub-component was to ensure regular assessment of learning
achievement as well as to strengthen education research and innovation. Six activities
were involved, as follows: (a) organize and manage regular national assessments, by
implementing the assessment test item bank (developed in part under EQIP I) and
establishing a system for analyzing and interpreting the results; (b) organize and manage
regular international assessments, namely PIA and TIMSS: (c) set up the Observatory of
Teaching and Learning Innovation CNIPRE, within the Education Research Institute; (d)
strengthen and modernize the CNIPRE (e) develop publications aimed at the teaching
community (especially the “Bulletin pédagogique? and the “Bulletin de liaison?
“Kifayat?; and (f) promote education research and innovation, through participation in
international meetings.




                                             9
Sub-component D4 (Infrastructure) US$94.00 Million

33.     The objective of this sub-component was to anticipate the increase in the number
of students in primary and secondary education and therefore enhance the studying
conditions in LBE. Four activities were involved: (a) improve learning conditions in LBE
by building, renovating and equipping multipurpose classrooms in primary schools; (b)
increase infrastructure capacity in UBE by building and equipping new colleges, and by
building and equipping science and technology classrooms in existing colleges; (c)
increase infrastructure capacity in secondary education by building and equipping new
lycées, and by building and equipping science and technology classrooms in existing
lycées; and (d) implement a program of maintenance and rehabilitation for primary
schools, colleges and lycées.

1.6 Revised Components

34.    The components were not revised.


1.7 Other significant changes

35.    By Mid-term Review, it became clear that additional resources in Tunisian Dinars
would be available due to appreciation in the exchange rate of the Euro against the local
currency. It was thus agreed to use the extra resources to increase the number of buildings
in primary and secondary schools to be rehabilitated.

36.     A first extension and fund reallocation of the project was approved by the Bank in
June 2008. This first extension was justified first by the savings generated by variations
in the exchange rate and second by delays in project implementation. Procurement was
experiencing severe delays at that particular point, due to the absence of a project
coordinator as well as the rather cumbersome procurement practices in Tunisia. The
Government requested this first reallocation of funds to support its priority to scale up the
ICT program, which basically entailed increasing the number of schools to be equipped
with computers. Along the same lines, in order to fully implement the language
curriculum in schools, the equipment of language labs was deemed necessary. . In
addition, the project also financed the development of an education portal, EDuNet, with
teaching and learning resources available for teachers and students. Therefore, an
extension was granted for 12 months, until June 30, 2009. Since the reallocation of funds
involved more than five percent of project costs, a Project Paper was prepared and
approved by the Bank’s Regional Vice-President (RVP) as a third order restructuring.

37.     After reviewing the project’s implementation progress during the supervision
mission in May 2009, delays in the implementation of several activities were again
identified. A review of the procurement plan for goods, works and services showed that
some equipment purchases could not be completed prior to the revised closing date. In
particular, large language laboratories and other IT equipment contracts (amounting to




                                             10
about US$25 million) were in the process of being delivered or being signed and it was
evident that a second extension and reallocation of funds to support the IT school
infrastructure and small rehabilitation works for schools was required. Thus, this second
extension for another 12 months (until June, 30, 2010) and reallocation allowed the full
execution of a number of contracts that were crucial to the accomplishment of the project
development objective. Also in this case, a Project Paper was prepared by the team and
approved by the Bank’s RVP.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

38.    Preparation and design: The project was designed on the basis of the lessons
learned from the implementation of EQIP I. However, the ICR for EQIP I was prepared
only after EQIP II had been appraised and approved by the Board. At the time of
preparation of EQIP II, it was estimated that the first phase was well managed and
coordinated on the Borrower’s side, so the same organizational structure and
implementation arrangements were kept for the second phase of the APL. Although this
was the case, a more analytical and objective assessment of weaknesses observed during
the implementation of EQIP I could have benefitted the project design of EQIP II.

39.    Bank intervention in the area of quality and inclusion was critical, as both issues
were at the forefront of the challenges faced by the education system, and had
Government ownership. The Bank’s long-term support through a two-phase, flexible
APL was particularly valuable given the fiscal constraints, and particularly in light of the
major investments needed as a result of rapid increases in enrollment in upper secondary
education.

40.    Although the approved minutes of the Concept Review meeting state that since
the Government was well prepared for the implementation of this type of project, it could
be argued that the complexity of the four components of the project called for a wide
range of actors and institutions within the education system to work in a collaborative and
coordinated way, which was not, and is still not, a practice observed in the Tunisian
context.

41.     As already discussed above, the results framework and the overall monitoring and
evaluation system were probably the weakest aspect of the project design. The indicators
chosen were too broad and, while relevant for monitoring progress of the general
education reform, were simply not sufficient to properly follow up on the implementation
of project interventions. This was an even more acute problem with regard to quality of
education indicators, which was to be measured and monitored only in terms of the share
of non-salary expenditures in the budget and the student/computer ratio. Broadly
speaking, the project design did not sufficiently emphasize the need to use of results
monitoring to provide meaningful feedback to decision makers in the Government. This
was compounded, all through project implementation, with the reluctance on the part of




                                            11
the Borrower to collect and/or share information and data. To be fair, though, it should
be acknowledged that Tunisia became one of the very first countries in the region that
decided to participate in both TIMSS and PISA, and this happened during the
implementation of EQIP II. Moreover, the GOT also supported specific evaluation
studies of some of the key project interventions, although it never agreed to add new
indicators to the results framework or to share the results of the 4th grade test pilots.

42.     Concerning quality at entry, the high level of ownership and the alignment with
the overall education reform program of the Borrower have already been stressed.
Probably the best indication that all this was the case lies in the fact that the project
became effective only two months after Board approval, a short time lapse that is
certainly not very common in the region. Further, implementation was off to a very good
start during the first couple of years, with very solid project management and quick
disbursement.

43.    Assessment of risks: Five risks were identified at preparation stage, four of which
were assessed as moderate (M) and one as negligible (N).

             Risk                 Risk          Mitigation Measure            ICR Assessment of the
                                 Rating                                              Risks
                                    From Outputs to Objectives
Applying a skills-based            M       Curriculum development and         Although the mitigation
teaching methodology might                 teacher training were prepared     measures were correctly
have triggered resistance from             accordingly                        identified and, to a
upper basic education teachers                                                certain extent, also
                                                                              implemented, the time
                                                                              needed to introduce
                                                                              changes in teacher’s
                                                                              practice was
                                                                              underestimated.
Diversifying the secondary         M        The Government’s reforms set      Reforms introduced by
school curricula to 9 sections              up opportunities to change        GOT certainly increased
might have oriented pupils to               tracks, and thanks to internal    flexibility and mitigated
choose a track according to                 monitoring of pupils, they can    the effects of early
their gender and socio-                     be better guided to appropriate   student selection. Yet,
economic status                             subject tracks. Further,          more should be done in
                                            number of tracks was reduced      this regard.
                                            to 6.
Teachers might refuse to           M        The Government created two        The reluctance of the
involve communities into                    structures within schools – a     Teachers Union was
school management                           professional-only Academic        underestimated, and this
                                            Council and a mixed School        clearly delayed the
                                            Council – to reassure teachers    implementation of the
                                            that they remain in control of    School Councils.
                                            academic issues                   Further, the role and the
                                                                              entrenched position of
                                                                              Teacher Unions was also
                                                                              neglected with regard to
                                                                              the school improvement
                                                                              plans (projet




                                                12
                                                                           d’établissment), a critical
                                                                           element of the quality of
                                                                           education-oriented
                                                                           reforms.
Communities, especially in       M       EQIP II encompassed a grant       This program was very
disadvantaged areas, might not           for pilot schools participating   well implemented and
have the necessary skills to             in the Priority Schools           yielded more results than
participate in the management            Program which could fill in       anticipated.
of a school                              the need for training
Despite what MET had shown       N                                         MEF’s capacity to
through the implementation of                                              implement this project
EQIP I, it was feared that the                                             was put under test, and
project might be too complex                                               although the
for the MET to implement                                                   performance related to
                                                                           inputs was satisfactory,
                                                                           MEF showed weakness
                                                                           in articulating in a
                                                                           coherent manner all
                                                                           aspects of the reform, its
                                                                           links to the project, and
                                                                           the use of M&E data for
                                                                           decision making.

2.2 Implementation

44.     The first two years of implementation went well, and important progress was
observed in the implementation of activities such as school construction, teacher training,
support to PEPE schools and integration of children with disabilities. However, there
were activities in which slow implementation was observed, such as the curriculum
reform in secondary schools, activities related to school and system-level management,
introduction of ICT, and assessment and evaluation. By the Mid-term Review, the
conclusion was that those activities in which the Ministry had good experience in
implementation were on schedule. However, activities that required consulting services,
or introduction of new know-how, such as school and system management, assessment
and evaluation, or the use of ICT, were all experiencing delays.

45.     One critical element that contributed to those implementation delays was that, for
a period of 18 months, the project did not have a Project Coordinator. As a result, day-to-
day project management tasks and responsibilities such as searching for appropriate
consultants, drafting TORs or preparing bidding documents were significantly delayed.
Moreover, poor coordination between the Director of Buildings and Equipment (DBE),
who was the interim Project Coordinator during that period and technical departments
became acute. Given the amount of activities envisaged, and the need to articulate them
within each component, the project called for close coordination during implementation.
Further, the interdependence of the different components and the importance of
articulation to achieve results in terms of better student learning outcomes demanded
strong leadership and coordination of all the different actors and responsible units.




                                            13
46.     Thus, although progress was observed in school construction, teacher training and,
after the Mid-term Review, procurement of equipment and labs for schools, CREFOC
and Regional Offices (DRE), the lack of coordination did not allow for a comprehensive
vision of the project, i.e., how specific interventions were to contribute to improving
quality and equity in education. Once a Project Coordinator was appointed in May 2008
(one month before the original project closing date), positive signs were immediately felt,
although the delays observed in procurement, in particular related to consulting services,
continued to hinder the achievement of project outcomes. In any case, implementation
progress improved substantially after the first extension of the closing date was granted,
also due to the assignment of several staff to the various types of procurement
(construction, rehabilitation, equipment and selection of consultants), an issue that had
been raised repeatedly by the Bank in several supervision missions. Project management
in general, processing and monitoring of contract execution, and reporting all improved
substantially. As a result, while disbursement was just slightly over 50 percent by 2008,
the project finally closed in June 2010, with 93 percent of the funds disbursed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

47.     As suggested above, key performance indicators were relevant but too broad. At
the time of the Mid-term Review, the Bank team stressed that more output indicators
were needed in order to better establish a link between project interventions and
monitorable indicators. In addition, given the importance of the ambitious education
reform that was being implemented and the many elements that it envisaged, it was
proposed to develop a more comprehensive framework to monitor improvements in
quality, equity and progress in reform implementation. The Mid-term Review aide-
mémoire suggested indicators such as the percentage of teachers following the APC, or
the number of schools with an active School Council. Likewise, it noted that the national
grade 4 evaluations should be used as a way to monitor progress in learning outcomes
(even if the original agreement that it was not necessary to define any particular target
value continued to make sense). However, the MET was not keen on introducing these
changes, as it is acknowledged in the aide-mémoire of the following supervision mission.
Thus, the necessary revamping of the results framework for the project was not pursued
any further.

48.     Although the PDO was clearly related to equity and inclusion, and the project had
important activities to promote them, such as the PEPE and the integration of children
with disabilities, there were no specific indicators in the results framework to follow up
on them. Thus, also as a result of the Mid-term Review, indicators to monitor integration
of handicapped students as well as progress made in PEPE schools were agreed upon,
although they were not formally incorporated in the M&E system, again due to the
reluctance of the GOT, which was adamant about keeping the original results framework,
because of its consistency and alignment with its own education reform strategy. The lack
of specific quality and equity indicators also made it difficult to focus on learning
outcomes, clearly the most appropriate way to monitor quality improvements.




                                           14
Unfortunately, this also hindered the possibility of providing evidence and showcasing
major project achievements in the area of inclusiveness and equity.

49.     Despite all of the above, monitoring and evaluation was upgraded to satisfactory
by the end of 2008 on the basis of the improvements in the monitoring and reporting of
progress on implementation activities. This was possible thanks to the appointment of the
project coordination director in May 2008, who submitted timely progress reports to the
Bank, thus enabling the Bank team to better assess the progress on the monitoring
indicators and provide quantitative information related to specific project outputs. It was
noted then that data on repetition and dropout rates for schools in underserved areas
(PEPE schools) were reported for the first time since the project became effective, thus
making it possible to monitor equity indicators that, as already pointed out, were not part
of the original results framework designed for the project.

50.     MET used project indicators to monitor progress of the overall education reform.
For instance, the observation of continuous and invariably high repetition and drop-out
rates triggered the decision to commission a study to analyze their underlying causes.
Likewise, a study to measure improvement of learning outcomes in PEPE schools funded
by UNICEF demonstrated the benefits of the program, and led the MET to consider
generalizing the idea of allowing schools to manage additional funds on the basis of a
School Improvement Fund. These two studies made the M&E system for the project
more relevant, allowing for a better and more ambitious use of data for policy making.

51.     Although it can be said that MET produces and uses data for policy making, and
that information on project key performance indicators was always available, given how
broad and system-wide these were, a tight monitoring of impact of all project
interventions was not really carried out during the life of the project. Finally, although
there was timely reporting on system indicators such as enrolment, completion rates and
the share of the non-salary expenditures, data from the grade 4 national examinations was
never made available, which entailed the absence of a national indicator on quality of
education which could go beyond weak proxies such as the computer/student ratio or the
share of non-salary expenditures. In general, it could be said that there is still room for
improvement regarding transparency and active dissemination of data, and on translating
analytical information into policy action.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

52.    Fiduciary: Financial management generally was globally acceptable. EQIP II had
adequate staff capacity, accounting, internal control system and satisfactory annual audit
program. No particular fiduciary issue was noted; EQIP II, as well as other projects, were
implemented with the same management structure and supervised. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) prepared the financial statements (commitments and
disbursement by components, sub-components and category and also by financing
sources).




                                            15
53.    Audits were conducted annually by Contrôle Général des Finances, delivered to
the Bank, and revealed no particular significant accounting issues.

54.     Procurement was rated moderately satisfactory considering that there were no
serious fiduciary issues but rather issues of non full compliance with agreed procedures,
particularly with regard to the selection of consultants, and delays in procurement
processing. During the period in which there was no Project Coordinator, the project was
rated as moderately unsatisfactory. However, after a new Project Coordinator was
appointed, it was rated satisfactory.

55.     Environment protection: The only safeguard policy triggered by the project was
the environmental assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01). The Bank’s safeguards team concluded
that EQIP I was not an at-risk project, and therefore EQIP II was supervised on the same
basis. In order to comply with OP 4.01, an environmental assessment review was carried
out for EQIP I, as a result of which the Bank only financed schools cleared under the
agreed procedure. The Government carefully selected the places where schools needed to
be built or renovated. In addition, every new construction site had to be cleared on the
basis of the environmental assessment in order to get the authorization to start the works.

56.     Land acquisition: No issues related to other safeguards, in particular involuntary
resettlement and land acquisition were noted. The results of applying the land acquisition
assessment procedure in EQIP I showed that private owners in fact benefited from
donating land for school construction. For each site acquired via donation, a land
acquisition assessment was conducted prior to construction to ensure that it would cause
no negative impact on persons or groups, nor create issues related to OP/BP 4.12.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

57.     During the last year of implementation, the Bank team and the Government
engaged in a dialogue to analyze lessons learned from the implementation of the reform
with the aim of identifying ways forward for a follow-up project. The MET identified
four critical areas for this analysis:

      the use of ICT to improve school management and teaching and learning;
      integration of children with disabilities;
      the experience of PEPE schools and the use of School Improvement Plans to
       improve school performance; and
      decentralization, Regional Education Plans, and School Management Committees.

58.    For all these topics, MET officials prepared analytical reports that were discussed
with the relevant organizational units and shared at a half-day workshop that took place
during the last supervision mission. As a result, a new education sector operation has
been identified and agreed to in the context of the recently approved Country Partnership
Strategy. Lessons learned from EQIP II will be integrated into this new operation. The
timing and content of the new project are being discussed between the MET and the Bank.




                                            16
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

59.    The Development Objectives were perfectly in line with the MDGs, and
consistent with the country’s social and economic development goals.

60.     The GOT education reform goals were: (a) to extend improvements of learning
outcomes to the most vulnerable children, so as to achieve universal LBE completion by
2015; (b) to respond to the increasing diversity of the secondary education population by
widening the range of education opportunities; (c) to enable the secondary school system
to be attuned to, and then adapt to, the needs of the Tunisian economy; and (d) to take
advantage of the ‘lull’ in the size of the LBE student population by focusing resources in
cost-effective ways on quality improvements. These challenges led the Government to
place quality improvement at the heart of its education strategy for 2002-2007. The whole
APL was prepared as a key instrument for the implementation of that education strategy.
Therefore, the relevance of the objectives and project design is clearly very solid.
Moreover, the fact that the policy areas selected by the Government for a follow-up
education operation fit squarely with those supported by EQIP I and II could also be read
as strong evidence that the interventions implemented by EQIP II were highly relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

61.     The Development Objectives of this project were achieved, and all through
project implementation, progress towards their accomplishment was rated as satisfactory.
Investments in infrastructure, curriculum reform, teaching and learning materials and
ICTs clearly contributed to modernizing schools in Tunisia and therefore to “promoting
excellence in teaching and learning?. Even if the results of the 4th grade national test were
not made available by the GOT, Tunisia´s results in TIMSS 2007 and PISA 2006 and
2009 show sustained improvement. In terms of ensuring equal access to education
opportunities, the PDO was fully accomplished – which includes lower secondary – as far
as basic education was concerned–which includes lower secondary–and was only
partially achieved when it comes to the target set for upper secondary education. The
most importance nuance that needs to be raised to this general conclusion is that the gap
between boys and girls has stayed unchanged despite evident progress in the overall
indicator. On the other hand, the success of the PEPE schools and the programs related to
expanding kindergartens and integrating students with special needs, also attests to
important progress in ensuring equal access to education.

62.    The success of the PEPE schools led MET to emphasize the role of the
community and the participation of parents in the life of schools. It was also a critical
way to demonstrate the importance of allowing schools to manage supplemental
resources based on the preparation of school development plans. This led CNIPRE to




                                             17
prepare manuals and guidelines for primary and lower and upper secondary schools to
help them reestablish School Councils, which, coupled with the assistance provided to
School Districts in the preparation of Regional Education Plans, were important steps
towards the decentralization of the system. In this regard, however, both the Government
and the Bank probably underestimated the resistance and reluctance of teacher unions,
principals, and regional administrators towards school-based improvement plans,
curriculum development and management.

Project Development Objective Outcome Indicators

63.    The overall primary education completion rate increased from 51 percent in 2004
to 60 percent in 2010. By gender, the completion rate of girls increased from 62 to 69
percent, reaching the target set at appraisal. For boys, completion rates went from 41 to
51 percent, slightly ahead of the target set at appraisal of 48 percent. However,
completion rates in secondary education went through a quite volatile evolution which
has already been discussed above. Changes in the Baccalauréat examination seem to
account for the steep changes in that indicator during the first two or three years of
project implementation. Besides, the persistence of high repetition and drop-out rates
among boys would also explain that the target values for secondary school completion
were not met, despite evident progress made both in terms of absolute numbers and
percentage of completers.

64.     Regarding quality and sector management, a key performance indicator was to
increase the share of MET operational budget allocated to non-salary expenditures
disaggregated by level. Between 2004 and 2010, this allocation increased for primary
education from 2.7 to 3.2 percent, thus meeting the indicator target. For secondary
education it went from 6.4 to 4.5 percent, partly due to the dramatic change in the
student/teacher ratio, which went from 20.4 to 13.4 resulting in an increase in the salary
mass and therefore its relative share in the budget, and partly due to the prevailing
practice of categorizing as “investment? the expenditures on ICT equipment and some
teaching and learning materials.

65.     The project made important contributions regarding introducing ICT to improve
the management of the system, as well as to modernize schools and to allow teachers and
students to use new technology in their teaching and learning activities. A key
performance indicator used to measure this was the ratio of student/computers by level.
This went from 129 students per computer to 23 in primary education, reaching above the
target of 36; from 99 to 23 in upper primary reaching above the target of 69; and from 45
to 19 in secondary, slightly below the target of 15.

66.    It is also worth mentioning that the software EduSERV was launched and is being
used by all schools and the EduNet intranet portal is used by schools and stakeholders
(students, parents and Ministry) to monitor learning outcomes and as the data collection
mechanism for the EMIS.




                                           18
3.3 Efficiency

67.     During the period 2004-2010, a decline in enrollment in primary and secondary
education has been recorded subsequent to a demographic trend that began with the
decline in primary education total enrolments since the mid-1990s and then continued to
secondary school enrolment from 2005 onwards. This decrease was 17 percent in primary
and 5 percent in secondary, while enrollment in higher education increased by about 20
percent. During this same period, total public funding for education and its distribution
between sub-sectors did not change: the share of the education sector in the state budget
increased from 21 to 22 percent, while the distribution among sub-sectors remained
unchanged (70 percent is allocated to primary and secondary education, 25 percent for
higher education and 5 percent for vocational training). The budget of MET allocates 41
percent for primary education and 59 percent for secondary education; these proportions
were 46 percent and 54 percent in 2004, respectively. Unit costs at primary and
secondary education increased in real terms by 48 percent and 57 percent, respectively,
between 2004 and 2010, reflecting the policy goal of improving quality of education
during this "demographic window" period. Unit costs in higher education rose by only 5
percent. In terms of proportion of GDP per capita, unit costs for primary education
changed from 15.6 percent in 2004 to 18.8 percent in 2010; in secondary education from
20.8 to 26.5 percent; and in higher education from 28.3 to 19.1 percent.

68.     The internal efficiency of primary education has improved: the dropout rate was
significantly reduced in 2009 – down to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent in 2004 and 2.9
percent in 2000. Similarly, the repetition rate went down to 6.5 percent in 2009, from 8.3
percent in 2004 and 13.8 percent in 2000. However, there appears to be a consistent trend
of higher repetition and dropout rates in tertiary education: 17.2 percent and 11.4 percent,
respectively, in 2008 compared to 23.4 percent and 9.4 percent in 1998. Concerning
secondary education, internal efficiency in the last decade has stagnated: the repetition
rate exceeds 15 percent and dropout rate is about 11 percent. Low internal efficiency in
secondary schools is particularly acute in the 7th grade, where about one student in four
repeats. Expressed in absolute numbers, the problem of school dropouts comes across as
even more striking: in 2008, 15,966 cases of dropouts were recorded in primary
education, 65,631 cases in cases in lower secondary and 58,634 in high schools, a
cumulative total of 140,231 cases. This can be explained by the growing heterogeneity of
students and the lack of appropriate pedagogical support in dealing with that diversity in
the classroom. Further, the absence of a national assessment system replacing the former
access exam to lower secondary education and the lack of appropriate supportive
measures in the transition from primary to lower secondary education, also account for
structurally high repetition and dropout rates in secondary education.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory




                                            19
69.     There is no doubt as to the relevance of the indicators that were used, although
more specific education quality and equity indicators were needed and could have been
introduced after the Mid-term Review. The PDOs were nonetheless almost fully
accomplished, and the exception regarding the targets set for secondary education
completion rates is at least partially related to changes in the secondary graduation
examination system, which should obviously not be attributed to the project. Persistent
repetition and drop-out rates among boys in secondary education continue to be a critical
challenge in Tunisia, as they are in most developing and developed countries, despite all
the project investments in curriculum reform, priority schools, technology, teaching
materials and improvement of physical infrastructure. Other than this exception, it has
been shown that internal efficiency in both primary and secondary education has
improved significantly over the period of project implementation.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.     The emphasis on equity proposed in this project clearly yielded results. On the
one hand, the PEPE schools targeting poor populations were successful in raising student
learning outcomes. The study financed by UNICEF in 2007 compared learning outcomes
between PEPE and mainstream schools showing that 16 percent of the lowest performing
PEPE schools in 2000 were performing among the top performing schools in the country
seven years later; and 47 percent were obtaining results around the national average. An
impact evaluation of PEPE was launched recently, in order to evaluate the program after
10 years of implementation, encompassing the entire duration of EQIP I and II. If that
study were to confirm that the earlier results in learning outcomes have been sustained
between 2007 and 2010, PEPE may end up being regarded as one of the most effective
programs of its kind. Raising outcomes of low performing schools is one of the most
elusive goals in the education sector of any country, developed or developing, and one
that always requires much more than just resources being thrown at it.

71.    Furthermore, the successful integration of disabled children into normal schools
gave a good example of inclusion and prompted MET officials to analyze how the
pedagogical changes that were required to integrate students with disabilities were
instrumental to develop innovative pedagogical solutions that could work well for all
students, including those more at risk of failure, repetition and drop-out.

72.     On gender, girls are outnumbering boys in both primary and secondary education.
The difference in enrollment in primary is small, just 1-2 percent, but in secondary it is
quite high, with 81 percent of girls enrolled, compared to 74 percent of boys. When it
comes to learning outcomes, girls are clearly outperforming boys at all levels, a
phenomenon that has become global and that is also turning to be the norm in the MENA
region. As for completion rates, which have been thoroughly discussed above, the gap




                                           20
between girls and boys in both primary and secondary education and how it has remained
unchanged throughout the whole period of project implementation is indeed alarming.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

73.      The Task Team was proactive and innovative when it put in place mechanisms to
facilitate decision-making and implementation coordination among several parties
involved during the most critical period regarding project management and coordination,
i.e., the 18-month lapse where there was no Project Coordinator. After a new Project
Coordinator was eventually appointed, project implementation was supported by a strong
team in charge of the various aspects of project management and coordination. For new
school construction, the MET relied on the support that was provided by the Ministry of
Works, which proved to be the best way forward. In the long term, and considering the
impact of demographic shift, it is clear that there will be less new school construction at
UBE and even less at LBE. Thus, in the near future, the role of the DBE of MET will also
shift to focus on the improvement and maintenance of the assets (buildings and
equipment) resulting from the investments made in the last decades. A critical element
will be how to develop ownership of school buildings by their communities. For this task
the DBE will have to be self reliant at central level but also will have to develop capacity
at the regional and local levels, which will definitely entail deepening the still relatively
timid process of administrative decentralization. The budget allocation should also follow
this trend and shift resources to maintenance – which is as of now well below the demand
and needs. The allocation of resources should also be supported by a shift in managing
the government assets. Maintenance should become a programmatic activity fully
integrated in the institutions life. For this to succeed, it is necessary to have staff
adequately trained and provided to institutions, routines established, budget and
responsibility decentralized. The institutionalization of the School Development Plans
and the empowerment of School Councils, probably the least successful undertaking of
the reform and therefore of this project, are clearly a tool to achieve these objectives, in
addition to being key to a more transparent and accountable school system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

74.     Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

75.     Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Modest

76.     Risk to development outcome should be considered as modest because of the very
strong foundation that has been laid in the context of a system-wide reform ongoing for




                                                21
almost a decade, and also because of highly motivated Ministry officials with a clear
vision of the future of the sector and the capacity to carrying the reform forward. While it
is obviously true that the recent regime change in Tunisia brings some uncertainty as to
how the emerging political leadership in the country will shape its education policy and,
in particular, which of the high-level technical staff at the Ministry will stay or leave,
there is every reason to believe that a democratic regime in a country that was already
fully committed to education reform will only prioritize the sector even further. At the
time of project closing, the Government discussed with the Bank what a follow-up
operation might look like and which policy priorities and interventions would be
envisaged. After the two phases of this APL have been successfully implemented, the
fact that the Tunisian Government is relying on the Bank as a source of financing and
policy advice is a clear sign of their commitment to the education reform and to
maintaining implementation momentum.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.    The project was prepared as the second phase of an APL after a successful
completion of the first phase and with all the triggers for the transition to the second
phase fully met. The second phase featured a comprehensive design, with a balanced
combination of quality, governance, training, and infrastructure-oriented interventions. It
contemplated system-level interventions regarding curriculum and capacity-building with
school-level initiatives and innovative programs such as PEPE. This design was certainly
very ambitious and fit squarely in the context of the ongoing education reform in Tunisia.

78.     As discussed in detail above, perhaps the only shortcoming in the design was the
monitoring and evaluation system and, in particular, the lack of a more specific results
framework and a more forthcoming plan for the projected use of results in policy
decision-making. The GOT led the preparation of the results framework, including the
choice of indicators and targets, which ensured ownership but left little room for the
Bank to influence the choice. Since the Bank team was preparing a project to support a
major GOT education reform, it opted to use the Government’s own indicators and
targets, as the benefits of such an approach, in terms of ownership and simplicity,
outweighed the limitations concerning the attribution of outcomes to project interventions.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

79.    The Bank Task Team did a good job in supporting the implementation and
discussing follow-up ideas. Thirteen ISRs were prepared over the 6-year life of the




                                            22
project, which is a satisfactory pace of reporting. Supervision missions had a periodicity
of twice a year with 12 visits over 6 years. The aide-mémoires and ISR reports were
informative, concise, and provided an opportunity for follow-up of issues encountered in
the field. Supervision missions were always well organized, combining skills among the
Bank team members to respond to issues and needs observed during project
implementation. The regularity of ISRs and aide-mémoires stressed improvements in
both the implementation and achievement of development objectives throughout the
project. Issues were mentioned in a very realistic way, with clear statements and
guidelines for improvement. Bank performance was also proactive and strategic during
the period when there was no Project Coordinator at the PMU, first by finding a workable
alternative within the Ministry of Education, secondly by facilitating support to the PCU
from another Ministry in the Government.

80.      Concerning the M&E system and the results framework, the team did everything
in its capacity to convince the GOT that more specific quality and equity indicators
needed to be introduced in order to allow for a better linkage between project
interventions and outcomes. As already discussed, the GOT resisted this and was also not
willing to make public, let alone share with the Bank, the results of the 4th grade test
pilots. In any case, however, thanks to the pro-activity of the Bank Task Team and to the
initiative and support of other international donors, key evaluation studies were
undertaken as early as 2007 that offset that shortcoming to an extent. Further, the GOT
decision to participate in PISA and TIMMS, advised and supported by the Bank Task
Team, also provided internationally valid and transparent information on quality of
education results in Tunisia.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.    The PAD and all framework documents were duly designed/drafted/provided, as
well as all ISRs, Mid-term Review report and project documents related to project
extension. The Bank team provided support both in terms of content and fiduciary
compliance throughout project implementation.

82.    The Bank team responded to the needs of the project in a flexible manner,
working closely together with the client during the implementation of the project and
being resourceful and proactive during the period when there was no project director on
the borrower side. Good relationships established with the Ministry counterparts in
charge of project management made it possible to promptly resolve issues and
bottlenecks that came up during implementation. The task team successfully managed the
approval of both extensions and reallocations of funds. Finally, and most importantly, the
team was successful in providing advice and technical assistance to help the Ministry of
Education in the identification of a new operation in the sector which would build on the
accomplishments of EQIP II and address the challenges in terms of quality, equity and
governance.




                                           23
83.     Regarding quality at entry, it is still estimated that, even in the absence of learning
outcomes measures, a more appropriate results framework oriented towards linking better
project intervention to outcomes and outputs could have been used, hence the moderately
satisfactory rating. As for quality of supervision, the satisfactory rating is warranted for
the reasons discussed above. The overall rating of Bank performance stays as moderately
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government performance in ensuring Quality at entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

84.     During project preparation, there was a high level of Government ownership, as
evidenced by the fact that the project became effective only two months after Board
approval. In addition, the Government collaborated well in following Bank guidelines
and procedures. However, severe delays in the implementation of several activities due to
the cumbersome procurement procedures observed in Tunisia resulted in delaying and
sometimes even cancelling activities. This was particularly evident with regard to ICT
procurement and consulting services. During the period where there was no Project
Coordinator, these delays became critical, and the coordination among components also
failed. Consequently, the project had to be extended for two years.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

85.    The PCU prepared progress reports, initially on a yearly basis and once the new
Project Coordinator was appointed, every six months in preparation for each Bank
supervision mission. These reports enabled both the Bank and the Borrower to better
understand the state of play of the project at these specific points in time, and to focus
more strongly on finding solutions to the issues raised.

86.     Financial Management Review: Accounting controls, auditing and reporting has
been rated as moderately satisfactory in the ISR FM Questionnaire in the last two years
because of delays in producing Interim financial reports and annual audit reports, and
also because of some issues revealed in the audit reports. These FM delays were related
to the complexity of the project, the number of transactions involved and the number of
entities in the regional level that resulted in coordination problems, flow of information
bottlenecks and reporting delays. Thus, financial reporting procedures were deemed to be
an element to be improved with a more integrated comprehensive management
information system and specific procedures of information flow between regional and
central levels.




                                              24
87.     Procurement was rated moderately satisfactory considering that there were no
serious fiduciary issues but rather issues of full compliance with agreed procedures --
particularly with regard to the selection of consultants -- and delays in procurement
processing. Often times, the lack of full compliance was due to the pressure exerted by
the tender board chairs (who report to the Prime Ministry and not to MET) to apply
inadequate national procedures. Moreover, obtaining final clearance from these tender
boards takes a long time and leads inevitably to delays in procurement processing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

88.      The overall borrower performance has been rated as moderately unsatisfactory on
the basis of the following: (a) refusal to make public the results of the 4th grade national
test, including for purposes of project monitoring and evaluation (b) refusal to modify the
results framework/indicators by Mid-term Review, (c) inability to fill the position of the
Project Coordinator for 18 critical months, (d) slow responses on procurement and other
implementation matters, and (e) failure to implement governance and management
reforms related to School Improvement Plans and empowerment of School Councils

6. Lessons Learned

89.     The design and implementation experiences of the project have yielded a number
of considerations and lessons learned that may be useful in shaping future projects of this
nature:

      Timing of Education reform. It is always a challenge to find the best possible
       synchronization between planned project implementation plans and the national
       “rhythm? in creating the conditions for education reform. This has regulatory,
       financial, governance and institutional capacity implications that can hardly be
       predicted during project design, yet can become a major risk for project
       implementation. In particular, the lesson learned here is that the more integrated
       the project is into the national schedule of the national reform – including
       budgetary sources and implementation procedures – the more successful it will be
       in accomplishing its objectives.

      A separate political consensus process is needed, after proposed reforms are
       ready, to explicitly address political sensitivities and develop political ownership.
       Technical and professional consultations on proposed reforms are necessary but
       not sufficient. This is perhaps the reason why the governance and school
       management reforms – creation of school councils, introduction of school-based
       improvement plans – were not successful. Dialogue, good communication
       strategy, and eventually consensus, with teacher unions, local administrators and
       other key stakeholders could have made a difference.




                                            25
   Clarity of M&E roles and linkages of M&E to policy development should be
    ensured. The Bank should provide a clear design and continuous technical
    support on the M&E practice. On the design, it should ensure clarity in the
    respective roles and responsibilities for internal and external M&E and the
    linkage of M&E to policy and strategy development, and to the need for capacity
    building and institutional strengthening in technical aspects of M&E. The Bank
    should also monitor and advise that M&E results (policy analyses) be
    systematically incorporated into policy development by suggesting the right
    sequencing and the timeliness of studies and surveys.

    Capacity Building. Knowledge of Bank procedures cannot be underestimated
    when looking at elements of success of an investment project. Training on Bank
    operations is necessary for counterpart staff and critical for new staff, and this
    applies to procurement as well as financial management. Governments need to be
    aware of this when they appoint Project Coordinators. Acknowledging the
    different skills needed for following procurement procedures for civil works,
    equipment and consultancy services are critical in education projects.

   Raising learning outcomes in disadvantaged areas is a challenge that
    developed and developing countries face nowadays in a context of nearly
    universal primary and secondary education. The successful experience of the
    PEPE schools in Tunisia, using a Charter Schools model, is definitely an
    important success story and therefore an important lesson for other countries in
    the region and beyond.

   Project Implementation and Procurement. Procurement delays were due to
    several factors – some inherent to the country procurement system and procedures
    and some due to the capacity and skills in the implementing agency. The latter
    reason requires that the necessary resources (human and physical) should be
    identified from the outset -- to ensure smooth project procurement processing --
    and that their skills and knowledge of Bank procedures should be assessed so that
    they can be adequately trained. On the country overall procurement practices, this
    requires a longer haul effort of dialogue with the country to reach agreement on
    the improvements to bring to the national review system and to their procedures
    to allow better alignment with internationally accepted practices. A provisional
    way forward in this regard is to have Bank financing focused on as many ICB
    procurements as possible, as there is less Government intervention when this is
    the case.

   School Rehabilitation: Many cases where rehabilitation was required were due to
    the lack of proper maintenance over long periods of time. So far, maintenance
    budget allocations at the institutional level are very low. Therefore, it is necessary
    to (i) increase and decentralize the budget for school maintenance, (ii)
    decentralize its implementation, (iii) have maintenance become a programmatic



                                         26
        activity fully integrated in the institution’s life and (iv) have staff adequately
        trained and provided to institutions, and routines established. In addition, and as
        importantly, students and parents should be sensitized to the values of maintaining
        the integrity of the public assets.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

By the time of the ICR review meeting – March 15, 2011 – and despite several reminders
sent by the Bank Task Team, the Borrower had only sent to the Bank a few minor edits to
the French version of the draft ICR. The review meeting agreed to send a final reminder
setting March 21 as the final deadline to receive extended comments and feed-back to the
draft ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                            27
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                     Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                     Percentage of
            Components             Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD
                                                                      Appraisal
                                      millions)        millions)
A/ INCLUSIVE BASIC
                                           12.50           16.81        135%
EDUCATION
 A1 TEACHING FOR IMPROVED
                                            8.70            9.64        111%
LEARNING OUTCOMES
 A2 EQUAL SCHOOLING
                                            3.80            7.17        189%
OPPORTUNITIES
B/ DIVERSITY IN SECONDARY
                                            5.66            6.24        110%
EDUCATION
 B1 DIVERSIFYING THE
SECONDARY EDUCATION                         5.60            5.49         98%
CURRICULUM
 B2 CAREER INFORMATION
                                            0.06            0.75        1248%
AND GUIDANCE
C/ SCHOOL SECTOR
                                            0.58            0.14         23%
MANAGEMENT
 C1 SCHOOL-LEVEL
                                            0.08            0.07         93%
MANAGEMENT
 C2 SYSTEM-LEVEL
                                            0.50            0.06         12%
MANAGEMENT
D STRENGHTENING CORE
                                          111.60          106.55         95%
SYSTEMS
 D1 STAFF TRAINING AND
                                            1.00            0.12         12%
COMMUNICATIONS
 D2 INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATION                              16.00           22.05        138%
TECHNOLOGIES
 D3 ASSESSMENT AND
                                            0.60            0.93        155%
EVALUATION
 D4 SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE                  94.00           83.44         89%

            Total Baseline Cost       130.34             129.73         99.5%
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00               0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00               0.00          0.00
             Total Project Costs      130.34             129.72         99.5%
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00               0.00          .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00               0.00           .00
     Total Financing Required         130.34             129.72         99.5%




                                          28
(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing     (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                            160.58      82.79         51.6%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                    130.34       129.72      99.5%
and Development




                                               29
                                  Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                                  EQIP II




     Component A:                Component B:                Component C:              Component D:
     Inclusive Basic              Diversity in               School Sector           Strengthening Core 
       Education              Secondary Education            Management                   Systems


         A1: Teaching for           B1: Diversifying the 
                                                                 C1: School?Level        D1: Staff Training and 
        Improved Learning          Secondary Education 
                                                                  Management               Communication
            Outcomes                    Curriculum



                                        B2: Career                                       D2: Information and 
        A2:Equal Schooling                                      C2: System?Level 
                                     Information and                                       Communication 
          Opportunities                                          Management
                                         Guidance                                           Technologies



                                                                                         D3: Assessment and 
                                                                                              Evaluation




                                                                                               D4: School 
                                                                                             Infrastructure



Component A. Inclusive Basic Education: actual disbursement USD16.81 million,
originally estimated cost USD 12.50 million (134% of the originally estimated cost)

This component had two subcomponents: Teaching for Improved Learning Outcomes,
and providing Equal Schooling Opportunities for children in disadvantaged areas and
with disabilities. The overwhelming majority of the activities planned under this
component were fully implemented.

Under the first subcomponent, technical support was provided to MET to develop
textbooks and teaching materials to introduce the “Approche par Competences? in all
schools. This was coupled with training for trainers, principals and teachers on the
definition of competences. The training was carried out in 10 modules. In total 1,000
trainers were trained by CENAFFE; including 800 principals and 42,542 teachers. In
addition, schools received equipment to facilitate and improve teachers´ pedagogical
interaction with students; equipment included 1,940 Copy machines, audio-visual
equipment provided to primary schools and colleges, 250 overhead projectors and 2,500
CD and tape players.




                                                        30
Equipment for teaching science in primary school classrooms was provided for 280
laboratories, including optical observation equipment, optical and mechanical equipment,
electrical equipment, chemistry equipment, anatomy, wallboard and models; 24 language
laboratories were provided for CREFOC and one for CENAFFE for training and
upgrading English teachers in primary schools.

Concerning inclusive education and provision of equal opportunities, the PEPE program,
by 2009, was brought to 557 primary schools and 101 colleges (lower secondary schools),
expanding the number of pupils benefitting from 7,667 in 2001/2002 to 157,806 by the
project closing date. PEPE schools benefitted from additional resources, managed
directly by the school council, through a special fund of US$500 (650 DT), designed
allocated based on presentation of school improvement plans. In addition, these schools
received training for their teachers, heads, trainers and technicians, increased the number
of school hours, and introduced supervision after class hours, social support to children
with special needs, generalization of canteens, and monitoring and evaluation of schools
by the coordination unit of the PEPE program. In addition, 118 PEPE schools, 25
colleges and 15 boarding schools were rehabilitated, while 69 schools received
equipment for canteens, and two colleges received a complete kitchen.

To address the needs of young children from low-income areas, kindergartens for 1450
children were rehabilitated and equipped. Further, for the integration of children with
disabilities, a program in 336 schools was completed, integrating 1219 children with
hearing, visual, motor and mental handicaps. An extensive training program for teachers
and school heads was developed, and 2500 guidelines on how to integrate children with
the different disabilities were produced and disseminated nationwide. In addition,
rehabilitation of school infrastructure to facilitate access was completed.

Component B. Diversity in Secondary Education: actual disbursement USD 6.24
million, originally estimated cost USD 5.66 million (actual disbursement: 110% of the
originally estimated cost)

This component had two sub components: Diversifying the Secondary Education
Curriculum, and Career Information and Guidance. Under this component, technical
assistance was provided to identify ways to implement new technological options in
secondary schools, as well as for an evaluation of all scientific and technical equipment
used in colleges and lycées. Secondary schools benefitted from science textbooks,
language books, philosophy, physics and economy.
To facilitate career counseling and guidance services, an Information and Guidance
Center “CRIO’ was created, which developed a database on alternative and available
options regarding university study opportunities as well as TVET, and other training and
career options; 1016 teachers were trained on how to use CRIO. Technical assistance was
also provided to build a website aimed at disseminating school counseling information at
the 24 CREFOC.




                                           31
Component C. School Sector Management: actual disbursement USD 0.14 million,
originally estimated cost USD 0.58 million (actual disbursement: 22% of the originally
estimated cost).
This component had two sub-components: School-Level Management, and System-Level
Management. The objective of this component was to extend a decentralized and modern
management system to schools and institutions, including setting up School Improvement
Schemes in schools and Regional Improvement Schemes in Regional MET Offices. A
program of support (advice, training and support) was developed for schools which
interested in implementing a quality control system (50 schools); however, a wider
generalization of the activity supporting the preparation of School Improvement Plans
and the setting up School Councils was finally not viable and therefore not implemented.
This was in part due to lack of support from Teacher Unions, and in part due to the
political and cultural context in Tunisia, which made the promotion of school autonomy
very difficult as an overall education policy goal. CENAFE was the institution that took
the lead on implementing this ‘quality enhancement program? and was effective in
training trainers and counselors and in developing a network of coordinators in quality
assessment in a number of schools that were interested in participating in this effort.
However, as stated above, only a minority of schools were involved.
Regarding system-level management, the use of ICT tools to improve management was
generalized: EduServ software was installed in all schools and technical assistance was
provided; a secured virtual and administrative network in schools and regional offices
Edunet was operational. All 2,236 EduServ users and administrative managers and 1,049
technical staff to use ICT were trained. In addition, five project managers were trained
abroad to strengthen project monitoring.

Component D. Strengthening Core Systems and Infrastructure: actual disbursement
USD106.55 million, originally estimated cost USD 111.60 million (actual disbursement:
95% of the originally estimated cost)

This component was composed of four sub-components underlined below.
Staff Training and Communications: A strategic study was carried out in order to
modernize and decentralize teacher training and to design an in-service training system.
This was implemented by CENAFFE. In addition, audio-visual equipment and copy
machines, IT rooms, PCs and other IT equipment were provided to the 24 CREFOC and
to CENAFFE, together with textbooks for CREFOC and CENAFFE’s teachers’ and
trainers on teaching selected subjects (62 language books, 6 for philosophy teaching, 10
for physics teaching, 3 for economy teaching). Also in terms of equipment, 30 buses were
purchased to assist schools in organizing school visits to archaeological sites, and 25
service cars for boarding schools in 25 Regional Offices. Finally, professional pre-service
training for school supervisors was given every summer with participation of 2,200 in
each session.
However, the projected communication strategy covering the main themes of school
reform was not fully carried out. This was an important activity aimed at enabling all key
implementation tools for the reform, and it comprised the creation of a communication
office within the Ministry of Education.




                                            32
Introducing Information and Communication Technologies: Technical assistance was
provided for the integration of ICTs in the teaching and learning process. A training
program was offered to ensure that teachers master the use of ICTs in the classroom,
which also contributed to strengthening distance learning and training platforms. Through
this program, 100 regional trainers and 25 trainers of trainers benefitted from specialized
courses in Canada. More importantly, an ICT certification system for teachers was
introduced.
This component also strengthened the information system infrastructure and networking
capabilities: The EduNet network was extended at the regional level with more education
and cultural sites developed and launched. Moreover, 800 foreign language laboratories,
300 IT laboratories, and 15 Internet mini-vans were provided to schools. The component
financed the upgrading and decentralization of INBMI services to better respond to
schools’ requirements by providing pedagogical services with some equipment, and the
regional technical services of the INBMI with 5 vehicles and equipment for 7 IT rooms.
A distance learning and training system was established, which entailed strengthening
distance learning and training platforms by providing technical assistance to diversify the
range of distance learning and tutoring services. In order to monitor and evaluate the
activities offered by “virtual schools?, a study was carried out - “Ecole Virtuelle
Tunisienne? (EVT) – including a set of 15 recommendations.
Assessment and Evaluation: Regular national assessments were organized and managed
by implementing the assessment test item bank already available and by establishing a
system for analyzing and interpreting the results, partly launched under EQIP I. On
international student assessment, the Project supported Tunisia´s participation in PISA
and TIMSS, making the country one of the very few in the region that is involved in these
two major international studies.
This component also modernized the Education Research Center Library (CNIPRE) by
updating the library database, and upgrading the resource center with the use of new
software. Pedagogical publications aimed at practitioners and communities were also
supported, especially ‘Kifayat?. On the other hand, the activities related to promoting
education research and innovation through participation in international meetings were
only partially successful due to the high turnover of young researchers within the
Ministry.
School Infrastructure: Up to 771 primary schools and 331 colleges were renovated under
this subcomponent and 200 multipurpose classrooms were built in 200 primary schools in
2005/2006. The Project increased infrastructure capacity in schools by building and
equipping new secondary schools and by equipping science and technology classrooms in
existing colleges: 33 secondary schools were built, and 230 physical science laboratories,
70 biology laboratories, 90 technical education laboratories and 90 history and geography
laboratories and 225 photocopying machines were financed.
In secondary education, 36 new lycées and 2 boarding schools were built and equipped,
which included a total of 600 classrooms, and 150 specialized classrooms in science and
technology and 207 boarding facilities in existing schools. The subcomponent also
equipped science and technology classrooms in existing lycées with 10 technical
laboratories, 60 physical science laboratories, 85 natural science laboratories, 65 history
and geography laboratories and 65 technological laboratories.




                                            33
Finally, a program of maintenance and rehabilitation for 771 primary schools, 33
secondary schools and 27 lycees was implemented.




                                      34
    Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour     Lead Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
Dominique Bichara           Special Rep. to The United Nat       EXTUN
Hocine Chalal               Regional Safeguards Adviser          MNACS
Rafika Chaouali             Lead Financial Management Spec       OPCFM
Hassine Hedda               Finance Officer                      CTRDM
Hovsep M. Melkonian         Consultant                           WBGSA
Karine M. Pezzani           Operations Analyst                   MNSHE
Alexander B. Velderman      Consultant                           LCSDE
Jeffrey Waite               Lead Education Specialist            MNSHE
Michel J. Welmond           Lead Education Specialist            AFTED
L. S. Christine Wong Shui
                            Operations Analyst                   EASPR
Wan
Hafedh Zaafrane             Consultant                           AFTED
Supervision/ICR
Slaheddine Ben-Halima       Consultant                           AFTED
                                                                 AFTH3 -
Ahmed Chabchoub             Consultant
                                                                   HIS
Antonio J. Cittati          Consultant                           OPCFC
Daniel R. Dupety            Consultant                           MNSHD
Emma Paulette Etori         Language Program Assistant           MNSHD
Hiromichi Katayama          E T Consultant                       MNSHE
Roger V. Key                Consultant                           MNSHD
Rie Kijima                  Consultant                           EASHD
Andre Kwak                  Consultant                           MNSHD
Jacques L'Ecuyer            Consultant                           AFTED
Moez Makhlouf               Consultant                           MNAFM
Alaleh Motamedi             Senior Procurement Specialist        OPCPR
Antoun F. Moussa            Consultant                            QAG
Karine M. Pezzani           Operations Analyst                   MNSHE
Dung-Kim Pham               Operations Officer                   AFTED
Amadou Tidiane Toure        Lead Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Jeffrey Waite               Lead Education Specialist            MNSHE
Hafedh Zaafrane             Consultant                           AFTED
Aglaia Zafeirakou           Consultant                           LCSHE




                                            35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      49                       295.80
  FY05                                      13                        43.22
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            62                       339.02
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                 4.77
  FY05                                       2                        31.38
  FY06                                      15                        62.51
  FY07                                      29                       174.82
  FY08                                      17                        98.25
  FY09                                       8                         0.00
                          Total:            71                       371.73




                                       36
          Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower submitted an Implementation Completion Report with a review of the
implementation and achievements obtained throughout the project life, as well as
comments on the Bank’s Ratings for the ICR. Below is a summary.

Project Indicators

The measures taken by the Government to provide free education for all students aged 6-
16 have allowed Tunisia to reach nearly universal access to basic education. In addition,
the recent efforts to include one year of pre-school education in public and primary
schools have resulted in an increased enrollment rate in pre-school from 11% in 2001 to
77% in 2009-2010. This effort has been done giving priority in rural areas, where private
pre-school is harder to be delivered.
The number of students enrolled in primary education has been stable since 1995, and the
teacher student ratio has improved from 25 to 22. Important efforts have been made to
deploy teachers in rural areas where the average teacher student ratio is now 18. In Upper
basic total numbers have started to decrease in 2009. Class sizes have been reduced from
32 to 26. This has been achieved due to the new school construction. Student enrollments
in secondary have been increasing due to the increased completion rates in primary. The
number of classrooms has increased, with 2714 new classrooms, allowing also decreasing
class size from 32 to 26. In addition important efforts have been made to equip
classrooms and laboratories with IT equipment.


Évolution du pourcentage des enfants 5- 6 ans ayant accédé        Évolution de l'effectif des élèves de l’enseignement secondaire

à l'année préparatoire


  90%                                                               600                                                       541
                                            77.5%                                               509   504   502   517
  80%                               72.2%                                                 493                           496
                           67.7%                                    500             459
  70%              65.3%                                                      424
  60%                                                               400
  50%
                                                                    300
  40%
  30%                                                               200
  20%     11.3%                                                     100
  10%
   0%                                                                  0
         2001/02 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10                              2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
                                                                     (1000)




                                                             37
Project Development Indicators
The PDO have been fully accomplished and have clearly contributed to the improvement
of quality of education in Tunisia. Completion rates in primary went from 51% in 2004 to
60% in 2010. However in secondary they have stagnated. Regarding the overall
management of the sector, the increase in non operational expenditures for primary went
from 2.7% to 3.2% between 2004- 2010. In secondary there was a decrease from 6.4% to
4.5% due to the efforts in reducing the teacher student ratio, which increased the total
amount of salary allocations.
The project allowed important developments concerning the use of ICT to improve the
management of the system, modernize the schools and allowed students and teachers to
use computers and communication technologies for teaching and learning. The ratio of
student per computer went from 129 to 23 in primary, way beyond the targets set by the
project; and from 99 to 23 in upper secondary, higher than the target of 69. The same was
observed in secondary, moving from 45 to 19.
Project Components
The majority of the activities envisaged in the project design were completed as
described in Annex 2.
Conclusions and perspectives of working with the World Bank
It is clear from the implementation reports that the project objectives have been fully met.
The project has clearly contributed to the improvement of quality of education and the
indicators have evolved in the right direction for all levels of education due to all the
investments made through the project. Through the implementation of the project and the
supervision of the Bank, as well as the weaknesses identified during the preparation of
the XIth development plan, the Ministry of Education has identified some priority actions
and areas in which would like to continue its dialogue and support from the World Bank.
These are: i) Improvement of the management of the system through and implementation
of a global information system; ii) enhancement of technical education; iii) enhancement
of foreign language education; iii) continue with the decentralization efforts; and iv
consolidate the use of ICT for teaching and learning.
Comments from the Borrower regarding the ratings of the ICR
As stated above, it is clear that throughout the project supervision reports that the PDO
were fully met and that the project results are satisfactory. The indicators have evolved in
a positive way, and this is due among other things- to the good management practice and
institutional capacity developed over the years. This in effect has been the case for the
many units and departments that have been involved in the implementation of the project,
at the central, regional and local levels and it includes procurement, civil works,
consultancy services and monitoring and evaluation of the activities funded through the
project.

In this context it is important to underscore that the rating that the Bank has given the
borrower is Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Ministry of Education considers that the
performance of the borrower has been Moderately Satisfactory.




                                             38
                     Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents

?   Loan Agreement:
       o Loan Agreement between Republic of Tunisia and International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development, March 12, 2004, Loan Number 7220-
          TUN

?   Project Appraisal Document:
       o Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Adaptable Program Loan on
            the Amount of EUR 104.4 Million (US$ 130.3 Million equivalent) to the
            Republic of Tunisia for a Tunisia Education Project in support of the
            Second Phase of the Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP),
            January 23, 2004, Report Number 26869-TUN;
       o Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$99
            Million to the Republic of Tunisia for the First Phase of the Education
            Quality Improvement Program (EQIP), May 30, 2000, Report Number
            20467-TUN

?   Aide-Mémoires:

       o   Aide-Mémoire, 4-14 November 2010
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 5-10 July 2010
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 16-23 November 2009
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 11-15 May 2009
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 1-5 December 2008
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 20-30 May 2008
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 3-18 September 2007
       o   Aide-Mémoire, 2-19 October 2006
       o   Aide-Mémoire Gestion Financière, October 2009
       o   Aide-Mémoire Gestion Financière, November 2008
       o   Aide-Mémoire Gestion Financière, September 2007
       o   Aide-Mémoire Gestion Financière, October 2006

?   Project Paper:

       o Project Paper on a proposed second reallocation of loan proceeds and
         second extension of closing date of the Education Quality Improvement
         Project Phase II, September 29, 2009, Report number 56346

?   Implementation Status and Results Reports:

       o   23 September 2010
       o   26 May 2010
       o   30 December 2009
       o   26 June 2009




                                      39
                        o       21 December 2008
                        o       28 June 2008
                        o       2 November 2007
                        o       19 June 2007
                        o       27 December 2006
                        o       22 July 2006
                        o       16 December 2005
                        o       18 February 2005
                        o       12 July 2004

              ?    Implementation Completion and Results Report:

                        o Implementation Completion and Results Report for a Loan in the Amount
                          of US 99.0 Million to the Republic of Tunisia for the First Phase of the
                          Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP I), March 27, 2007

              ?    Reports from the Ministry of Education:

                        o Rapport sur le Programme des Ecoles à Priorités Educatives (PEPE)
                        o Étude de l’impact du programme d’Éducation Prioritaire sur les
                          performances scolaires, Unicef, CNIPRE, 2007
                        o Rapport sur l’intégration des enfants porteurs de handicap dans les classes
                          ordinaires
                        o Projet d’amélioration de la qualité du système éducatif tunisien, June 2010
                        o Etat d’avancement du projet « Extension de l’application EduServ », July
                          3, 2010
                        o Rapport semestriel de suivi, April 2010
                        o Rapport semestriel de suivi, October 2009
                        o Rapport annuel de suivi, July 2008
                        o Rapport annuel de suivi, July 2007

Consultants Reports                 Date d’achèvement   Bureau d’étude              Suivi/Commentaires


A : Inclusion dans l’enseignement de base


A1 : Pédagogie de la réussite       Juin 2010           Ministère de l’Education,   Rapport sur l’Intégration des enfants
                                                        Direction Générale du       porteurs d’un handicap dans les classes
                                                        Premier Cycle               ordinaires


                                                                                    Rapport sur les résultats de la subvention
                                                                                    des 650DNT non effectué

                                                                                    Evaluation d’impact à nous fournir
                                                        DGPFC / Tecsult
                                                        Canada
                                    Janvier 2008                                    A1.1-3 Accompagnement




                                                        40
                                                                                méthodologique des équipes chargées
                                                                                d'élaborer les programmes scolaires, les
                                                                                manuels et les outils didactiques du 2ème
                                                                                cycle de l'enseignement de base (7éme,
                                                                                Sème et 9ème années) et la définition
                                                                                d'un système d'évaluation des acquis des
                                                                                élèves s'inscrivant dans une démarche
                                                                                d'évaluation formative

                                                     CENAFFE / Mediacom
                                                     Formation                  A1.9 Renforcement de la formation des
                                    Mai 2007                                    enseignants de l'enseignement de base
                                                                                dans les langues et les sciences
                                                     Ministère de l’Education

                                                                                Rapport sur le Programme des Ecoles à
A2 : Egalité des chances            Juin 2010                                   Priorité Educative (PEPE)

                                                     DGEB1 / Mediacom           Etude à établir en décembre 2010 sur les
                                                     Formation                  écoles PEPE

                                                                                A2.1 La mise en œuvre d'une stratégie
                                    Mai 2008                                    d'information et de communication au
                                                                                profit des intervenants et des
                                                                                bénéficiaires du programme d'intégration
                                                     DGEB2ES / Tecsult          progressive des enfants porteurs de
                                                     Canada                     handicap dans les établissements
                                                                                scolaires ordinaires

                                                                                A2.5 Identification des établissements
                                    Avril 2006                                  Secondaires concernées par la Mise au
                                                                                point d'une Stratégie de Mise à Niveau
                                                                                (Programme PEPE)



B : Développement de l’enseignement secondaire


B1 : Diversification des filières                                               Nouveaux manuels scolaires à fournir

                                    Septembre 2007   DGPFC / Concept            B1.1-2 Assistance technique à la mise en
                                                     Tunisie                    place d'une filière technologique dans
                                                                                l'enseignement secondaire
                                    Mai 2006
                                                     DGPFC / Sofeg Canada       B1.5 Évaluation de l'utilisation des
                                                                                équipements scientifiques et techniques
                                                                                dans les Collèges et les Lycées



                                    Mai 2006         DGEB2ES / Pro-Invest       B2.1.1 Expertise pour la constitution
B2 : Information et orientation                      Tunisie                    d'une banque de données sur les parcours
des élèves                                                                      scolaires, universitaires et de formation et
                                                                                sur les métiers, dans le cadre de la mise
                                                                                en place du centre des ressources,
                                                                                d'information et d'orientation (CR10)

                                                                                B2.2 Conception et la mise en place d'un
                                    Septembre 2010   DGEB2ES / ST2i Tunisie     Site Web (Arabe/Français) pour la




                                                     41
                                                                                      collecte et la diffusion de l’information et
                                                                                      de l'orientation scolaire




C: Gestion du secteur scolaire


C 1 : Gestion de l’établissement    Juin 2010            Ministère de l’Education,    Rapport de synthèse préparé par le
scolaire                                                 Mr le Directeur Général du   CNIPRE
                                                         premier cycle et Mr le
                                                         Directeur Général du
                                                         deuxième cycle et de
                                                         l’Enseignement de Base

                                                         CENAFEE / GIP France




                                    Février 2007                                      C1.2 Instauration d'une Démarche
                                                                                      Qualité dans les établissements
                                                         INBMI / Pro-Invest           Scolaires
                                                         Tunisie

C2 : Gestion du système scolaire    2010                                              3 guides écrits mais pas encore diffusés

                                                                                      C.2.1 Développement de l'Extension du
                                    Juin 2010                                         Logiciel de Gestion de la Scolarité et des
                                                                                      Moyens Pédagogiques dans les
                                                                                      établissements scolaires "EUSERV" dans
                                                                                      un Environnement Open Source

D: Renforcement des dispositifs de base


D1 : Formation et communication           2006             CENAFFE                      Etude stratégique réalisée, copie à nous
                                                                                        fournir

                                          Janvier 2010     CENAFFE                      « Elaboration d’un dispositif et des
                                                                                        outils de gestion du suivi et des outils
                                                                                        d’évaluation de la formation
                                                                                        continue » (D.1.1.C)

                                          Juin 2006        DGPFC / Cide Canada          D1.1a Étude stratégique sur le
                                                                                        développement du système de
                                                                                        formation continue des personnels
                                                                                        de l'éducation
                                                           DGPFC / Consord
                                          Mars 2010        Tunisie                      D1.1c Renforcement de la capacité
                                                                                        d’évaluation des programmes et de
                                                                                        formation continue

                                                           INBMI
D2 : Technologies de l’information et     Juillet 2010                                  Rapport concernant la mise en place
de la communication                                                                     d’un système pour la certification des
                                                                                        compétences des élèves en TIC à nous
                                                                                        fournir (D2.1)




                                                         42
                                        INBMI / Pro-Invest
                      Février 2010      Tunisie                       D2.1 Développement de
                                                                      l'intégration des TIC dans le
                                                                      processus d'apprentissage
                                        INBMI et CENAFEE /
                      Décembre 2009     Pro-Invest Tunisie            D2.2 Formation des formateurs en
                                                                      TIC

                                        INBMI / ST2i Tunisie
                      Septembre 2010
                                                                      D2.3c Amélioration des services du
                                        INBMI / ST2i Tunisie          portail Edunet
                      Septembre 2009

                                                                      D2.4b Portage et l'Amélioration de
                                                                      la plateforme d'Enseignement à
                                                                      distance de l'école virtuelle dans un
                                        CNIPRE / Concept              environnement open source
                      Mars 2003         Tunisie

                                        CNIPRE / Concept
D3 : Evaluation       Mai 2006          Tunisie                       D3.1 Opérationnaliser la Banque
                                                                      de tests et d'épreuves dévaluation

                                                                      D3.3 La mise en place d'un
                                                                      Observatoire de l’innovation
                                                                      pédagogique


D4 : Infrastructure                                                   Etat d’avancement du projet
                                                                      « Extension de l’application
                                                                      EDUSERV »


Autres                                  Unité de Gestion Financière   Manuel de procédures utilisé par UGP
                                                                      à fournir
                                        Mr Ksiaa
                      2010                                            Rapport annuel de suivi
                                        UGP
                                                                      Rapport audit de juillet 2009 à fournir




                                       43
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33500R

38°N                                                            8°E                                                                      10°E                                                         12°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sicily
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                  M e d iterranean                                                         Sea
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (ITALY)
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                 La Galite                                                                            St
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                              ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                it
                                                                                                                                         Bizerte
                                                                                                                                                                                                         of
                                                                                                                  BIZE RT
                                                                                                                  BIZ ERT
                                                                                                                  BIZERT E
                                                                                                                                                    Gulf of Tunis
                                                                         Tabarka                              .                                                                                                              Si
                                                                                             s          Mts                                  ARIANA
                                                                                                                                                   L'Ariana                                                                       ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ly
                                           To
                                         Algiers                                        Atla                                                       TUNIS                                                      Pantelleria
                                                                                                          Beja                                                  NABEUL                                        (ITALY)
                                                                       JENDOUBA                                                                    Ben Arous
                                       To                               Jendouba
                                                                                                          BE JA
                                                                                                          BEJ A                                 BEN AROUS
                                      Sétif                                                                                                                           Nabeul
                                                                                     ue                                                            Zaghouan
                                                                                   eg
                                                                               ell                                            ZAGHOUAN
                                                                             M
                                                                                                    SIL IANA                                                  Gulf of Hammamet
36°N                                                                                Le Kef                         Siliana                                                                                                                        36°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Isole Pelagie
                                                                            KE
                                                                         LE KEF                                                                     SOUSSE                                                             (ITALY)
                                                                                                                                                                    Sousse
                                       To
                                      Sétif                                                                                                     Kairouan                Monastir

                                                                                        Thala                                                                       MONASTIR                                                      Lampedusa
                                                                                                                     KAIROUAN                                                                                                       (ITALY)
                                                                       KASSERINE                                                    ud
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mahdia
                                                                          El                                                      ro                  MAHDIA
                                                                                                                              Ze
            ALGERIA                                                            Ha
                                                                                  teb                                                                 El Djem
                                                         Jabal ash Shanabi
                                                                  (1544 m)                Kasserine                      Sidi
                                                                                                                         Bou Zid

                                                                                                        SIDI BOU                                   SFAX
                                                                                                           ZID                                                            Sfax
                                                                                                                                                                                      Kerkenna
                                                                         GAFSA                                                                                Maharès
                                                                                                                                                                                      Islands                  Mediterr an e an
                                                                          Gafsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea
                                                                                                                                                Skhira
                                                                                                                                                     Gulf of
34°N                                                                                                                                                 Gabes                                                                                        34°N
                                                      Tozeur                                                                                                               Houmt Souk
                                                                                                                                                 Gabes
                                                TOZEUR                                                                        El Hamma                                            Djerba
                                                                  Chott el Jerid                                                                                                  Island
                       To                                                                        Kebili                   GABES
                    Touggourt
                                                                                                                                                                                     Zarzis
                                                                                                                                                      MEDENINE
                                                                                                                                            Medenine
                                                                          KEBILI

                                                                                                                                                              Tataouine

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                         Al
                                                                                                                                                              -Ji                                                  Tripoli
                                                                                                                                                                    far
      0      25        50       75    100 Kilometers                                                                                                                      ah
                                                                                                                                                                               Pla
                                                                                                                              TATAOUINE                                              in
      0           25             50           75 Miles                                                                                          Remada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                L I B YA
                                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                         Er
32°N                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                 ter
                                                                                                                                                      Dehibat                                          To
                                                                                                             s                                                                                       Mizdah
                                                          8°E
                                                                                                        Ea
                                                                                                    t
                                                                                               ea
                                                                                          Gr
                                                                                                         El Borma


                  TUN I S I A                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                           Dirj



                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS

                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                            TUNISIA
                   MAIN ROADS

                   RAILROADS

                   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                               30°N
                                                                                                                                         10°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JANUARY 2007
