I-D   56/-Co             F       -CoPY
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-652a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH RAILRAOD PROJECT
COLOMBIA
July 11, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -      Peso (Ps)
US$ 1           =     Ps 16.3
Ps I                   US$ 0.0613
Ps 1 million    =      US$ 61, 350
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
I m                   3.28 ft
1km             =     0.62 mi
1 km2                 0. 386 sq. mi
I m ton         =     2.205 lb
FISCAL YEAR
January 1       -      December 1



CO'O0PIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH RAILROAD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMARY
1.   NTTRODUCTION
2. BACKGROURD                                          3
General                                            3
Transportation                                     4
Transportation Coordination
3. TEE COLOMIAN NATIONAL RAILROADS                     6
Organization, Management and Staff                 6
Railway Property                                   8
Operations                                         12
Traffic                                            12
4. THE PROGRAM AID TIE PROJECT                         13
CNR's Five-Year Investment Program 1968-1972       13
Description of the Project                         15
Financing of the Project                           16
Execution of the Project                           17
5. EARNINGS AND FINAINTCES                             17
Tariffs and Revenues                               17
Budgets, Accounting and Audit                      19
Earnings                                           19
Finances                                           22
6.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                             25
Freight Traffic                                    25
Passenger Traffic                                  27
Economic Benefits                                  27
7. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOIllEMNDATIONS                   29
This Appraisal Report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission in December 1967 consisting of lIessrs. Mackay and Regling
(engineers), Bickers (economist) and Chapman (financial analyst).
hessrs. Sei-Young Park and Karcher (economists) of thLe Bank also
contributed to the preparation of the report.



T A B L E S
1) Traffic to and from Principal Ports (Excl. oil)
2) Composition of Motive Power and Rolling Stock 1967-1972
3) Table of Type, Age and Capacity of Freight Cars
4) Summary of Operating Statistics
5) Table of Derailments and other Accidents in 1967
6) Annual Paying Freight and Passenger Traffic 1962-1967
7) The Five Year Development Program 1968-1972
7A) The Project
8) Summary Income Accounts 1962-1967
9) Forecast Operating Results 1968-1976
10) Balance Sheets 1962-1967
11) Long Term Debt 1962-1967
12) Statement of Estimated Cash Flow 1968-1972
13) Debt Service 1968-1976
14) Estimate of Investment IJeeds - Period 1973-1976
15) CNR Forecast Summary Balance Sheets
16) Estimated Freight Traffic
17) Estimated Benefits and Costs of the Project
Annexes: 1 - Traffic Density Chart
2 - Employment of Consultants
3 - Track Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
Map:      Colombian National Railroads (IBRD 22h1 R)



COLOIvIBIA
APPrIAISAL OF A FIFTH RLELROAD PROJECT
SuIqLARY
i.        The Colombian National Railroads (CNR) have asked the Bank for a
loan of US$18.3 million equivalernt to help finance the first three years
of their new Five-Year Investment Program, 1968-1972. CNR's investments
during the period are estimated at Ps 1.0 billion (US$61.9 million equiva-
lent) with a foreign exchange component of US$38.7 million equivalent.
ii.       This would be the fifth Bank loan to CNR.  The first three loans,
beginning in 1952 and totalling US$46.3 million equivalent, financed the
building and equipping of the Atlantic line which has given Colombia access
by rail to the Atlantic Ocean. The fourtih loan of US$30.0 million equiva-
lent, made in 1963, was devoted to rehabilitating the other lines and opera-
ting facilities of CNR and to increasing their carrying capacity.
iii.      The fourth loan followed a transport survey concerned with all
modes of transport in Colombia (undertaken on the initiative of the Bank).
This resulted in the establishment of a CNR investment program for 1963-1972
divided into two five-year periods. The first five-year program, 1963-1967,
for which Loan 343-CO helped to finance the first two years, fell behind
expectations, because of inadequacies in financing and execution which the
Government and CIR have since taken measures to correct. The project
financed by Loan 343-CO was completed satisfactorily except for the placing
in service of 200 freight cars, for which component parts were purchased
under the loan. These cars will go into service by the end of this year.
iv.       The loan now proposed would continue the process of rehabilitating,
modernizing and increasing the capacity of CNR which was the purpose of the
last loan. The Project would consist of the first three years of CNR's new
Five-Year Investment Program, 1968-1972.  The loan would finance the foreign
exchange component of priority requirements in this period (other than diesel
locomotives and freight cars being obtained with suppliers credits) which
are: rails and accessories; ballast cars and maintenance equipment;
machinery and tools to equip workshops; components to modernize rolling
stock; miscellaneous equipment and consulting services. All equipment
requirements would be procured under international competitive bidding.
v.        The Government and CNR have been negotiating with various countries
to procure rails and accessories through the barter of surplus coffee.
US$6.6 million is provided under the proposed Bank loan to cover the pro-
curement of the rails and accessories, with the option being given to
Government and CNR to cancel all or part of funds if satisfactory barter
arrangements can be concluded within the Project period.
vi.       The Management of CNR is keen and is becoming more experienced
and efficient. Main weaknesses exist in track and rolling stock repair



- ii -
and maintenance, and provision is made in the Project to correct organi-
zational and staff deficiencies in these respects. Operational efficiency
is improving but further improvement is being sought under the Project.
vii.      Since 1952, CNgRIs freight traffic has been increasing at an
average rate of 4 to 5 percent per annum. The transport survey of 1961
anticipated growth of over 6 percent annually from 1963 onwards and this
growth could have been achieved had CNR's capacity been equal to the task.
Increases are now forecast during the period 1968-1976 at an average
annual growth of about 5 percent. Passenger traffic has been declining over
the last few years; reorganized, improved services are expected to hold
the traffic at its present level.
viii.     Expectations of improved finances have not been realized.
Revenues have been affected by a slower than anticipated growth in traffic
and by CNR's inability, in the face of road competition, to raise tariffs
to an adequate level; and operating costs have been inflated by wage
awards and price increases resulting largely from currency devaluation.
As a result, CNR has had to rely on external loans for foreign exchange,
and on Government to provide all local currency funds for investment.
Provision of Gcvernment funds proved tardy and insufficient until 1966 and
1967.
ix.       CNR's financial expectations have improved with the prospect of
growing traffic and of economies consequent on rehabilitation and moderniza-
tion, supported by tariff revisions in 1966/67 and rate increases being
introduced in l968. Forecasts based on traffic projections indicate that
in 1968 there should be a small net operating surplus (after depreciation)
and by 1972 a financial rate of return of 3 percent on net fixed assets,
improving to 6 percent by 1976. These objectives are ambitious but capable
of realization provided that the momentum for change and improvement, now
in evidence in Colombia and in CMR, is maintained.
x.        The Project is justified on economic grounds.   It would ensure
the continued and expanded operation of CNR which is essential to the
economic needs of the country. It would provide a return of about 15 per-
cent on the investment.
xi.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$18.3 million
equivalent to the Colombian National Railroads for a term of 20 years,
including 3 years of grace.



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH RAILROAD PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Colombian National Railroads (CNR) have asked the Bank for
a loan of US$18.3 million equivalent to finance part of the foreign ex-
change cost of CNR's new Five-Year Investment Program 1968-1972. This
Program is the second half of a Ten-Year Investment Program 1963-1972
which was established in 1961/62 with the assistance of a general trans-
port survey group (Parsons, Brinckerhoff, Quade & Douglas) and a team of
railroad experts (Coverdale & Colpitts). CNR's overall execution of the
first half of the Ten-Year Program fell short of expectations and the
new Program for 1968-1972 includes a considerable amount of equipment
and rehabilitation work originally planned for the period 1963-1967.
This new program has the broad objectives of rehabilitating, raodernizing
and expanding CNR's capacity. The Project would consist of the first
three years of the Program and the proposed loan would finance priority
requirements within the Project.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consist-
ing of Messrs. Mlackay and Regling (engineers), Bickers (economist),
Chapman (financial analyst), which visited Colombia in December 1967 with
further brief visits in January and April 1968, and on information
provided by CNR and the Colombian Government. Messrs. Sei-Young Park
and Karcher (economists) of the Bank, also contributed to the prepara-
tion of the report.
1.03      The Bank has made four loans for the Railroads, the first
three of which were all for the construction and equipment of the new
Atlantic railroad. The first of these (68-CO), made to the Government
in 1952, provided USP25 million equivalent for the foreign exchange cost
of the construction of the first section from Puerto-Salgar to Gamarra
(see map). The second loan (119-CO) of US$15.9 million equivalent, was
made to CNR in 1955 to finance the foreign exchange cost of the comple-
tion of the line from Gamarra to Fundacion, the rehabilitation of the
existing Santa Marta-Fundacion line, and the procurement of locomotives
and rolling stock for the line. Further locomotives and rolling stock
and also shop equipment for the operation of the line were financed
under the third loan (267-CO) to CNR in 1960 of US$5.-4 million equiv-
alent.
l.o4      The fourth and latest loan, 343-CO, for US$30 million -
making a total of US$76.3 - was made to CNR in 1963 to provide funds
for purchases for the whole system under the first two years of the
1963-1967 section of the Ten-Year Investment Program. This loan
financed freight cars and component parts, diesel locomotives and
spare parts, rails and accessories, other equipment and materials and
consulting services. All items have been acquired and are satisfac-
torily in service except 200 freight cars for which component parts
were purchased; these cars should be completed and in use by the end
of this year.



1.05      Performance in carrying out thie first half of CNR's Ten-Year
Investment Program was poor. Under the last loan the Government was
required to allow CNR to adjust rates and fares to cover operating
expenditure (including depreciation), reserves, working capital and the
purchase of equipment and betterments; and to make funds available to
CNR as required for carrying out the project. Authority as necessary
was given to CNR to increase rates and fares but competition from
truckers made it difficult for CNR to do so, while such increases as were
made were largely offset by inflation. There was lack of adequate and
timely financial support to CNR for the Program from the Government from
1963 through 1965, a position which improved greatly in 1966 and 1967.
In addition progress under the Program was hampered by the shortage of
experienced staff and by the accumulating effect of deferred maintenance
of track, locomotives and rolling stock. In the result the first half
of the Ten-Year Program progressed slowly and two extensions to Loan
343-CO were required.
1.06      The further loan now proposed has been under discussion for
nearly three years. The Bank insisted that no further assistance would
be possible until there had been satisfactory progress in areas agreed
with the Government and CNR. Progress has now been made in these areas
as indicated in the next paragraph.
1.07      The principal positive results to be seen from the Bank's 15-
year relationship with CNR are: i) the establishment of a centralized
and unified railroad system with a common gauge (previously there were
7 systems and 2 different gauges), ii) the construction of the Atlantic
line, now the main artery for railway traffic (Annex 1 and map), iii)
improvements in organization and management (para 3.01), in commercial
practices (para.3.02), and in statistics and accounts (para.5.11), iv)
progressive reductions in the number of staff employed pari passu with
increases in traffic (para.3.03), v) the beginning of reorganization
of the civil and mechanical engineering departments which in turn should
make possible the progressive rehabilitation of track and rolling stock
(paras.3.10 and 3.21), vi) the introduction of adequate communications
and operating control (para. 3.11), vii) the beginning of dieselization
now to be completed (para 3.13) and viii) the achieving of an operating
ratio (99 in 1966 and 115 in 1967) w¢hich is notably lower than that of
other national railroads in South and Central America. Additionally,
through the Government, funds are nowT being made available to CNR in
the amount and at the time required for capital expenditure, support is
given to increases in tariffs, and CNR's competitive position vis-a vis
truckers has been improved through a higher gasoline tax and a new diesel
fuel tar.
l.o8      Perhaps the most encouraging feature of this record is that,
while the Bankl has played an active part in the progress that has been
made, a great deal that has been done, particularly in the last two years
or so, has arisen from the current drive for improvement which is
generating in Colombia and in the CNR itself. Whiile much remains to be
done, this is appreciated both by the Government and the management of
CNR and the further Bank loan now proposed should give impetus and help
at a time when it is needed and holds hope of being effective.



- 3 -
1.09      In addition to loans to the Railroad, the Bank since 1951 has
been providing Colombia with assistance to build and improve its highways.
In the late 1940's it was recognized that a chief obstacle to development
in Colombia was the lack of transport facilities and the loans made to
both rail and road have been necessary and, to a large extent, complementary.
The total assistance provided by the World Bank Group for the development
of Colombia's highways has been US$86.35 million and a further loan is
currently under consideration.
1.10      In June 1967, the Governnment concluded an agreement with the
Development Advisory Service of Harvard University to carry out a trans-
portation investment survey which will update the 1961 survey of all main
transportation modes, and will cover the period 1967-1977. The foreign
exchange cost of this survey is being financed under an IDA highway credit
(5-Co). The report of this survey is expected later this year; the consultants
have indicated their agreement with the major components of the proposed
highway and railroad investment programs.
2.  BACKGROUIND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Colombia extends over an area of more than one
million km2, about equal to that of all six member countries of the European
Economic Community. It has the third largest population (19 million) in
South America. The three principal areas of settlement are: the agricul-
tural and industrial centers of the Eastern Highlands, including the capital
city of Bogota; the fertile and elevated Cauca Valley, lying to the west
of the Central Highlands; and the coffee producing and industrial region
of Antioquia, to the north of the Cauca Valley, with Medellin, the country's
second largest city, as its center. The only other sizeable concentrations
of population are around the two Atlantic seaports of Barranquilla and
Cartagena where considerable industrial activities are also centered.
2.02      Agriculture accounts for nearly 30 percent of Colombia's GDP,
(compared with close to 40 percent in 1960). Manufacturing industry has
been growing at a faster rate than most other sectors of the economy, and
now accounts for nearly 20 percent of total GDP. The remaining 50 percent
is accounted for by mining, service and other activities. The principal
mineral resource is oil. There is also coal which in one area, where
iron ore is also found, supports a steel industry.
2.03      Colombia's GDP increased by a little over h percent p.a. in the
1961-1966 period which, with the population growing by more than 3 percent
p.a. and with per capital income presently estimated at only US$250-270,
was a disappointing rate of growth. Coffee accounts for more than 60 per-
cent of the total value of exports compared with 74 percent in 1958. There
have been substantial increases in other exports, notably in oil, bananas,
sugar, cattle, and tobacco, but this diversification has not yet overcome
the trade deficit, nor eliminated the need for restrictions on imports.
The Government's present objective is to achieve a sustained growth rate
of about 6 percent in GDP.



B. Transportation Sector
2.04      The three mountain ranges of Colombia present formidable
barriers to movement between the main areas of population, which until
recently developed as almost isolated communities. The country has coast-
lines on both the Atlantic and the Pacific but there is difficulty of
movement from the coasts into the interior over forbidding terrain.
Distribution of traffic through the ports is determined more by the
origin or the destination within Colombia than by the shipping routes
concerned: in the west the Cauca Valley and Antioquia use the Pacific
port of Buenaventura for practically all their overseas trade, while in
the east and north of the Central fIighlands some 85 percent of imports
and exports are channeled throughn the Atlantic ports of Barranquilla,
Santa lIarta and Cartagena, even though many of the toams served, includ-
ing Bogota, are geographically closer to the Pacific.
Railas
2.05      In 1954 the small, independent railway lines, built largely
to serve river traffic, were linked together to form a single network
under the authority of C1\TR, with access to the Pacific through the port
of Buenaventura. In 1961 a major extension was completed to provide the
first through railway connection to the Atlantic at Santa M4arta. This
has already developed into a route of great importance to the railway,
and to t'he country as a whole; it has also given impetus to agricultural
development in the low-lying and sparsely populated areas of thle Magdale-
na valley.  Santa Marta, formerly a small banana port now ranks second
among the country's ports.  Substantial traffic, by road and w-ater from
Barranquilla and Cartagena, is transferred to the new line at points
along its route.
2.06      Other important lines are:  between Bogota and Medellin, the
two largest cities, which are unlikely to be linked competitively with
a direct highway for at least ano-ther decade; between Bogota and Belen-
cito, serving the expanding steel works at Paz del Rio; and between La
Caro and Zipaquira and Betania wihere salt deposits give rise to substan-
tial railway traffic.
2.07      These lines, linking Santa Marta, Hledellin, Bogota, Belencito
and Zipaquira, where traffic growTth is likely to be much faster than
elsewhere on the system, account for 1,539 lkm of the railwayts total
of 3,414 route km.
2.08      The only other route conveying important traffic densities is
the 174 kon line between Buenaventura and Cali. Completion of a paved
road to Buenaventura in 1970 (with the aid of Banlc financing, its
completion is included in a proposed road project) is bound to increase
road competition for traffic over this route.



Highways
2.09      Thle highway system is dealt with in detail in the appraisal
report for the fifth highway project. To a large extent the develop-
ment of the highway network (4S,000 km of roads, 5,000 km paved) has
been complementary to the railway system although in some areas it has
resulted in rational diversions of traffic from rail to road.
Air Services
2.10      Colombia's very difficult terrain encouraged an early develop-
ment of air services for internal as well as international transportation.
In addition to the four international airports at Bogota, Barranquilla,
Medellin and Cali, there are some 25 other airports each handling at
least 1,000 passengers a month, and a total of more than 75 operational
airfields throughout the country. Internal passenger traffic is
increasing by about 8 percent p.a., and internal air freight movement
by about 9 percent p.a., though the latest data available, for 1966,
show only 119,000 tons of traffic, generating 74 million ton-km, handled
by internal air services during the year. In view of rapid technical
developments and the inherent difficulties of surface transport in
Colombia, this mode of transport should continue to maintain or improve
its present relative importance.
Ports
2.11      The total tonnage of dry cargo ;oassing through the four
principal ports of Buenaventura, Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Mar-
ta is shown in Table 1. None of these are large ports by international
standards and indeed Colombia's foreign trade is still quite small for
a country of its size, due partly to the hnigh costs of movement between
the ports and the interior.  Buenaventura, the biggest of the four, will
expand considerably as a result of the investment program being financed
aith the help of the Inter-American Development Bank, and now nearing
completion. At Santa Marta space is restricted but an additional berth,
making four in all, is currently under construction. When further port
capacity is required, it may well be sought, given improved access, in
the large natural harbor at Cartagena.
River Transport
2.12      Inland waterways, of which the Magdalena river is the
principal, handle bulk import and export goods and petroleum products.
The NLagdalena connects Barranquilla and Cartagena, the latter through
a canal, with the interior linking wsith thle railways at a number of
river transhipment ports. It is of continuing importance and the
preliminary indications of the Transport Investment Survey are that
the complermentary nature of thle waterwiays (both to railways and highl-
ways) could be further and beneficially utilized.



-6-
Pipelines
2.13      Petroleum products, Colombia's second largest export after
coffee, are mainly transported by pipeline. Crude oil pipelines supply
five refineries, including one at Cartagena, which ships refined products
via the Panama Canal, to Buenaventura for distribution to western Colombia.
Another line supplies crude to Santa Marta for export. Refined products
are also moved by pipeline from refineries to Bogota and Medellin, and
from Buenaventura to the Cauca Valley.
C. Transportation Coordination
2.14      Except for the fact that the Minister of Public Works is an
ex officio member of the boards of the autonomous or semi-autonomous agencies
administering the Railroad, the National Highwnay Fund, the National Port
Authority, the River Transport Association and the National Airport Authority,
there is no central body which coordinates the activities of these different
modes of transport. The Government's planning department, Planeacion
Nacional, is responsible for investment coordination among diffeient modes.
This function is not yet carried out effectively because of inexperience
and a shortage of trained staff.
2.15      Although the organizational aspect of transport coordination
is less than satisfactory, transport development has not so far been ad-
versely affected because, given the limited financial resources, there has
been relatively little duplication of facilities. Also, during the last
two years, since the election of the present Government, there have been
a number of improvements in both administration and operation in the
various transport modes. The recent establishment of a Planning Office
in the Ministry of Public Works is a step towards more rational investment.
The Transport Investment Survey report is not expected until later this
year, but sufficient is known from the investigations and the preliminary
analysis to indicate that it will support the major investment items in
the current rail and road investment programs.
3. THE CCLCOBIAN NATIONAL RAILROADS
Organization, Management and Staff
i) Organization and Management
3.01      The Colombian National Railroads is an autonomous Government
entity established in December 1954 as a condition of the first Bank loan;
the Charter was accepted by the Bank. It is headed by a five-member Board
of Directors with the Minister of Public Works, ex officio, as Chairman,
an arrangement which has proved beneficial in giving CNR immediate high
level access to Government. The other members are appointed by the Presi-
dent of Colombia from a list submitted by private interests representing



- 7 -
trade, industry, banking and agriculture. The Board appoints the General
Manager and has control of the railway's operating and financial policies,
except for (a) major tariff changes which are subject to the approval of
the Superintendency of Economic Regulations (para.5.01) and (b) the building
or abandonment of railroads which rests with Congress (para. 3.30).
An executive committee consisting of the Deputy Chairman of the Board and
the General M4anager acts on all non-policy matters which would otherwise
need Board decision and this facilitates executive action. In general,
the arrangement has worked well.
3.02      In the last five years, advances have been made in strengthening
the organization and management of CIR. A new statistical and accounting
department is functioning efficiently.  The commercial di.vision has been
reorganized with the assistance of consultants and, with a new tariff
structure, is now geared to deal with CNR's commercial requirements in a
more businesslike manner. Some reorganization of the civil engineering
department is also under way, following the appointment of consultants by
CNR in May of last year to assist with the major task of track rehabilitatic;.
and mainteriance; and similar reorganization is planned in respect of the
mechanical department. The management has gained considerably in experience
and is determined to make CNR a viable national railroad. Unfortunately,
the number of top-level, experienced staff is still insufficient. To help
meet this situation in the long term, management is recruiting young univel-
sity graduates for training in Colombia and abroad; in the short and
medium terms, consulting services are being used (Annex 2).
ii) Staff
3.03      By rigidly restricting recruitment to fill vacancies caused
by retirements, CNR has been able to reduce steadily the number of employees
from 15,650 in January 1963 to 11,600 in March 1968, a reduction of some 26%.
Total staff costs per yeq'
Year            Average Nos. employed      in millions of Pesos
1963                   h4,9goo                    175
1964                   14,000                    171
1965                   13,000                    183
1966                   12,500                     177
1967                   11,900                     211
For the first four years, reductions in the nunbers employed offset
increases in salaries and it was only in 1967 that the total cost rose
substantially above the 1963 level.  This is a notable achievement, parti-
cularly since in the same period average wage costs have increased by 51%
(see next para.).
3.o4-     The opportunities for further reductions in manpower are now more lim
ited, and may have to wait the completion of dieselization and of track rehGa"'il
itation and the mechanizing of track maintenance. COR management will contrri.;3



- 8 -
to exercise vigilance in tlis matter. About everj two years a new contract
is negotiated with the unions which involves increases in pay and in social
benefits (paragraph 5.17). This has caused the average annual cost per
employee to rise by 51 percent over the last five years from Ps 11,700
in 1963 to Ps 17,700 in 1967. The contract concluded in Hay 1967 provided
for a wage increase of about 8 percent effective January 1, 1967 and for
a further similar increase in 1968. The average emolunents of CNIR staff
are reasonable in relation to other state enterprises. The Government has
confirmed to the Bank that its general wages policy will be to relate pay
increases to actual productivity increases and CNIR intend to conform with
this policy.
3.05      There are four groups of railroad unions in Colombia which intend
to merge into a single railroad union. M4anagement's relations with the
various groups are good.
Railroad Property
(i) Railway Lines
3.06      CHR operates 3,414 route-km of 3-feet gauge (0.91 m) single track
lines. Many sections are in mountainous areas: over 600 km have grades
up to 2 percent, over 400 km up to 3 percent and about 200 km between 3 and
4 percent; over a third of these steep grades occur on the busiest lines
to Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Belencito and Bucaramanga. Sharp curves, with
radii down to 80 m, impede the use of rolling stock longer than 14 m.
3.07      The total length of track including spurs and sidings is 3,729 km:
1,080 km is laid in comparatively new 75 lb rails (37 Kg/m); 1,508 km is
in 60 lb rails (30 Kg/m) and 1,141 km in 50 lb rails (25 Kg/m), the rails
in both these weights being from 20 to 45 years old. All track renewal
of principal lines is now in 75 lb rails which should be adequate for
many years. Ties are mostly of untreated local wood and ballast, if any,
is mostly uncrushed river stone; both are unsatisfactory.
3.08      The general condition of the track is very poor.   The first
Bank loan in 1952 required that CNR rehabilitate the existing railroad
track and other properties. However, concentration on the Atlantic line
and limited financial resources did not permit iwork on existing track
to the extent required. The 1963-1967 Program included the renewal of
545 km of rail, of which Loan 343-CO financed 210 km. In the event, the
total length of rail renewed to the end of 1967 was only 240 km. Work on
improving track formation, ballasting and resleepering was similarly
delayed.
3.09      Arrears of maintenance, combined with difficult terrain, treache-
rous soil conditions and severe seasonal rainfall, have been the cause of
an alarming number of accidents (para. 3.25). The need to give priority
of finance and manpower to correcting accident darnage has resulted in a



- 9 -
further deferring of ma-ntenance.  Less maintenance has meant that the
railroad has been less efficient and less able to carry traffic than it
might have been, thereby earning less revenue. This has led in turn to
a further skimping of maintenance and necessitated larger Government
subsidies to CNR.
3.10      The need to break out of this self-defeating cycle has been
recognized by CNR and the Government. In May 1967, consultants
(SOFRERAIL-French) were appointed to draw up and assist in implementing
a comprehensive track rehabilitation and maintenance program. This
program has now been drawn up and 100 km of main line have so far received
major rehabilitation, exclusive of new rails. Impregnated wooden sleeper
production has been increased from 5,000 in 1965 to 500,000 in 1967 and
should go to 750,000 per annum in 1968 with the opening of an additional
plant; this should be sufficient for all maintenance and rehabilitation
purposes.  Ballast production is being increased by the opening of six
new quarries to be served by new crushing plants purchased under the
last Bank Loan. CNR intends to retain the present consultants to help
implement the program.
3.11      A new communication system, including teleprinters, financed
partly from the proceeds of Loan 3h3-CO and expected to be installed by
early 1969, will greatly improve the means of supervision and train and
car control.
(ii)  Mctive Power and Rolling Stock
3.12      CNi7s motive power and rolling stock position at the end of
1967 is shown in Table 2.  Motive power consists of:   110 steam, 3 diesel
shunting and 84 diesel mainline locomotives plus 38 railcars. Rolling
stock is 500 passenger cars, 5,563 freight and service cars and 233
private-owned tank cars.
3.13      The steam locomotives are from 15 to 50 years old and in poor
condition. MCajor spares are no longer manufactured. In March of 1967,
following consultation with the Bank, CNR invited international compet-
itive bidding on both price and payment terms for 60 diesel electric
locomotives to replace all of the steam fleet. The award was made in
September 1967 and delivery is expected in October 1968 through September
1969. The new diesels should meet CNTRs needs for a considerable time.
3.1h      The availability of the existing diesel locomotives improved
considerably from the very low figure of 69 percent in 1965 to an
acceptable 80 percent in 1967, after the heavy purchase of spare parts
(US$1.5 million) under Loan 343-CO; the provision of foreign exchange
by the Colombian Government for these purposes also improved in 1966
and 1967. To keep diesel locomotives, railcars and other mechanical
plant and equipment in operation requires the regular supply of spares
and equipment and it was agreed during negotiations that, in



- 10 -
accordance with the requirement to operate on sound railway principles,
there will be adequate and timely provision of foreign exchange for this
purpose as required by CNR.
3.15      The diesel railcars are in poor condition largely due to
continuous heavy use on lines with steep gradients and difficult
curvature. An average of 55 percent of the diesel railcar fleet is at
any time in the workshops under or awaiting repair. Eighteen of the
oldest railcars are now beyond economical repair and are to be scrapped
but not replaced. To extend the useful life of the remaining cars, CRil
is planming to place a second engine in ten under-powered units and to
use the cars to provide complementary services to the principal locomotive-
hauled passenger trains.
3.10      Of 500 passen-ger cars 90 percent are 30 years old or more wsith
wooden superstructurEs, wealc drawgear^s and poor accommodation.  Only 46
cars (some 10 percent), imported in 19H3, have steel bodies. Average
availability of the total fleet is only 57 percent. CNR are proposing to
scrap almost half the existing fleet; to reconstruct some 250 of the
remaining cars by-replacing wooden with steel bodies and importing new
drawgears, bogies, brake and other equiprmient; to reduce the present five
classes of travel to twro (I and II Class); and to reorganize and improve
remaining services (para.5.05). A start has been made with botlh tlhe
scrapping and reconstruction programs.  Due to the amount of othier wjorlc
being do-ne in CNIR's own workshops on maintenance and repairs, reconstruct-
ing the cars is being carried out 'oy local contractors.
3.17      So:ae 27 percent of the 5600 freight cars are 30 years old or
more.  The average fleet capacity per car  is 2 8 tons (Table 3).
Availability at 75 percent is low. The main factors preventing better
performance are poor maintenance, the large number of accidents, and
structural defects in older wagons. To meet this situation CNR have wffith-
drawm 1000 cars for heavy repairs or scrapping; contracted out the construc-
tion of 200 new freight cars, the components for whlich were purchased
under Loan 343-CO; placed orders for 1200 new bogie freight cars all of 40
tons capacity; and begun the replacement of glide with roller bearings on 301;
cars and the strengthening of drawgears on 600 cars.  CNR  wi 1 1 eimploy
consultants to help introduce and irmiplement regular maintenance and repair
programs for both freight and passenger cars (para.3.21). Such programs at
present are largely non-existent, due in part to the continual need to
repair accident damaged vehicles.
3.13      The order for the 1200 new freight cars took place in December
1937, following agreement wTith the Bank on the urgent need to replace old
units. The award was made, followfing international competitive bidding
on both price and payment terms. Assembly of the cars will be wholly in
Colombia. Important components will be purchased from recognized foreign
manufacturers. Delivery is expected during 1969 and early 1970.
(iii) Other Property
a) Workshops
3.19      As a legacy of the old independent railways, CNR inher-,;ed
shops; :^our are ju'stified in relation to t'i.f retwork' s  ze arA . :, : L 



- n2 -
One workshop at Bucaramanga is being closed and it would seem that another,
at Girardot, dealing mainly with steam locomotives should also be closed
when steam has been phased out. Agreement was reached in negotiations that
consultants would study and advise in this matter. Of the remaining four,
two, which provide light and internediate repair facilities for locomotives
and rolling stock, are in the process of being completely rebuilt. One is
now nearing completion at Santa Marta (the equipment of which has been financed
partly by Loan 343-CO) and the othier replacing the old Bogota workshops is u;-
der construction near Facatativa. The two other workshops are in M4edellin,
dealing mainly with heavy repairs to diesel locomotives, and in Cali, dealing
mainly.with heavy repairs to passenger and freight cars.
3.20      The Medellin workshops are currently the best laid out and most
efficient. The Cali workshops are older, not so well laid out and have
inadeqtuate and outmoded facilities. CNR is planning to transfer these
workshops to Ytabo, 20 kms from Cali, at an estimated cost of Ps. 38.h
million, and to meet two-thirds of the cost by the sale of the land
released. The remaining one-third cost is estimated by CNR to be of the
same order as the ex.jenditure which would be required to modernize the
workshops on their existing site. CNR's plan to move the workshops to
Yumbo is reasonable.
3.21      CNR have improved their diesel maintenance program. They have
not, however, produced an adequate program to deal with rolling stock due
mainly to the large number of vehicles which require checking and repair
following derailments/accidents0 Preventive maintenance is practically non-
existent and this in turn is a cause of accidents. There is also a shortage
of experienced staff as many of the supervisory and senior men have been
attracted to private industry (a trend which has now been checked by
higher emoluments to CNR senior staff). There is need for qualified con-
sultants to reorganize the workshops; to introduce sound preventive main-
tenance and repair schedules for all rolling stock; and to give on-the-
job training to local personnel. This is a matter of priority and CNR is
currently negotiating a contract with consultants (SOFRERAIL) which it
was agreed in negotiations would be signed not later than September 1, 1968.
b) Marshalling Yards
3.22      Marshalling yard facilities are generally adequate for the
level of traffic. Santa Marta has a new yard; and a new yard is also being
constructed in Bogota to serve the developing industrial area. The other
main yards at Cali and Medellin have reasonable facilities. A deficiency
exists at Buenaventura where rebuilding and enlarging of the port has left
CNR without proper access and yard facilities to serve the port.  The
master plan provides for adequate railway amenities but is likely to take
some time to carry out in full.  It was agreed in negotiations(l) that,
pending the implementation of the master plan, CNR would be given suitable
yard and access facilities as soon as possible, but not later than
December 31, 1969; and(2) that any new rail facilities on the island
replacing existing facilities would not be a charge to CNR.



- 12 -
3.23        In many places CNR's buildings, such as stations, sheds, offices
and quarters for employees are old, poorly maintained and too small for
modern requirements. CNR has recently started to improve some of its
buildings and staff housing, but operational requirements are being given
priority.
Operations
3.24        Operating statistics from 1962 to 1967 are summarized in Table
4. A feature is the improvement in diesel locomotive availability and
use in the last few years. Comparing 1964 with 1967, locomotive availability
has improved from 56 to 80 percent, km per locomotive day in use from 266
to 285 and average freight train speed from 19.8 to 25.1 kph. The average
load per freight car is also increasing.
3.25        On the debit side the main feature is the continuing high rate
of accidents (Table 5). Special accident investigation committees have
been set up by CNR, but the large number of accidents (some 9 per day)
means the committees are overburdened. The main causes are poor track and
defective rolling stock and there is early need for extensive traclk and
rolling stock rehabilitation and maintenance programs as already indicated.
3.26        So long as accidents continue at the present rate it will be
difficult for CNR to improve its operations. Train scheduling and freight
car control are inadequate, but installation of the new telecommunication
system referred to in para. 3.11 should allow of the introduction of up-to-
date methods. During negotiations, it was agreed that consultants would
be appointed to help CNR introduce efficient up-to-date train scheduling
and train and rolling stock control, and to assess future rolling stock need -
Freight Traffic
3.27        In spite of substantial fluctuations, CNR's freight business
has maintained a long-term growth rate of more than h percent per annum.
In 1966 traffic exceeded one billion ton-km for the first time, owing to
the high level of imports. The overall volume of freight carried in 1966
would have been higher if sufficient railway capacity had been available
(para. o.03).
3.28        By far the most important route is the 970 km line between Bogota
and the port of Santa Marta and its 190 km link with the industrial center
of Medellin (Annex 1). On these lines, which account for one-third of the
total railway system, average freight traffic density (net tons per route
km) in 1966 amounted to some 570,000,compared with only 200,000 on the
remainder of the system. A large proportion of movements are bulk commoditie;,
imported through Santa Marta, passing over distances which make them suitabl2-
for transport by rail. Other flows originating from the ports of Cartagena
and Barranquilla join this railway route after transhipment from highway
trucks, or from barges travelling along the lower Magdalena River.



- 13 -
3.29      For the remaining two-thirds o-f tne railway network the only
heavy flow is on the 174 km line linking the port of Buenaventura to Cali,
but the relatively short haul involved is likely to make this vulnerable
to road competition once the new Bank-financed road link to the port is
completed. The 262 km line between Bogota and Belencito has a good traf-
fic potential, because it links the steel works north of Belencito with
the rest of the railway system. At present its traffic is small, and
the bulk of finished steel products is passing by road, due largely to
the railway's inability to offer an adequate service. Traffic is generally
light on the remaining lines. The route southwards from Medellin, serving
the Cauca valley, has lost much of the former coffee, sugar and other traf-
fic to a shorter and improved highway. On the line linking Neiva and Ibague
to La Dorada the only important commodity is oil from San Ignacio to Dorada.
However, a future expansion of oil production may warrant the construction
of a pipeline with diversion of this traffic from rail.
3.30      The abandoning of uneconomic lines/services presents political
difficulties cut of proportion to their significance. The decision to
build or abandon railways rests with the Congress. The President can
overrule Congress, but will not do so lightly as attempts made to abandon
services, such as the Manizales to Mariquita ropeway, have produced violent
opposition. Since the last loan one uneconomic line (21 km) has been
closed and dismantled and Government and CNR hope to withdraw other lines/
services, including the ropeway, simply by reducing services and maintenance.
It was agreed during negotiations that consultants will be appointed to
examine the position with regard to uneconomic lines and services as defined
in Annex 2, and to make recommendations with regard to possible action.
Passenger Traffic
3.31      In 1967 the number of passenger-km was 27 percent below the
volume five years previously, representing an average reduction of 6 per-
cent p.a. (see Table 6). This is due to the railway's inability to provide
acceptable standards of service; to increasing road competition; and to
a (planned) reduction in short distance and local passenger trains in 1967.
The Atlantic line has given access to the developing holiday coastline near
Santa Mqarta and, with newly reconditioned coaches, upper class travel has
grown in the last three years from 4 percent to over 10 percent of total
passenger traffic. There is some potential for developing longer-distance,
higher class travel and with the general reorganization of passenger ser-
vices now under way there should be both economies in operation and increases
in revenues.
4. THE 1968-72 INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
CNR's Five-Year Investment Program, 1968-1972
4.01      CNR's Five-Year Investment Program, 1968-72, has grown out of
a Ten-Year Investment Program, 1963-1972, which was established with the
assistance of two groups of consultants, one of which carried out a general



- 14 -
transport survey (currently being updated) while the other related CNR's
specific requirements to that survey. The first half of the Ten-Year In-
vestment Program having fallen considerably behind schedule, the Program
for the second half consists largely of arrears of expenditure on items
needed for reasons of safety and to meet traffic demands.
4.02      Total expenditures under the Five-Year Investment Program,
1968-72 put forward by CNR are Ps. 1.5 billion (US$91.0 million equivalent).
with a foreign exchange component of Us$55.5 million equivalent. The main
features of the Program are reasonable but it can be reduced, without
adverse consequences, to a total of Ps. 1.3 billion (US$81.0 million
equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$45.2 million equivalent.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on this revised Program, details
of which are given below and in Table 7. This Program is geared largely to
essential replacements and additions required to handle the expected traffic.
The greater part of the investment will serve those lines where traffic is
likely to grow most rapidly.
(1) Way and structure renewals and improvements (46% of total
expenditure). 700 km of line to be completely rehabilitated
and laid with new 75 lb rail (details in Table to Annex 3);
205 km to be rehabilitated and laid with recovered rail; weld-
ing of rails over some 200 km of line; llo ballast hopper cars
and considerable mechanical maintenance equipment to be pur-
chased. Extensive ballasting on lines being rehabilitated and
on the Atlantic li'e; a few bridges to be strengthened.
(2) Construction and equipment of workshops (10% of total
expenditure). New workshops at Facatativa and Cali; machinery
and tools; new facilities to complete dieselization.
(3) Motive power and rolling stock (32% of total expenditure).
60 new diesel locomotives; 1200 new freight cars; rehabilitation
of 1050 existing freight cars; modernization of about 250
passenger cars; 14 additional motors for railcars.
(4) Increase in station and line capacity (5% of total
expenditure). Marshalling yards and crossing stations to be
extended; procurement of freight handling equipment;
remodelling of warehouses; improvement of inadequate station
buildings.
(5) Miscellaneous (7% of total expenditure). Completion of
communications network; staff housing; local and overseas staff
training; and extensive consulting services.
4.03      The specific changes agreed to in the CNR Program are:
(1) Deleting the purchase of 1000 additional freight cars in



- 15 -
the period 1969 through 1972. Given a reasornble improvement
in operating performance these cars should not be needed but
the position will be examined by consultants (para. 3.26).
(2) Deleting the purchase of new passenger cars and concentrat-
ing on rehabilitation of existing cars, which is more economical.
(3) Reducing track maintenance equipment purchases from US$4
million to US$3 million.  This allows a more gradual transition
to mechanization.
(>) Increasing provision for consulting services in specific
areas for longer periods.
Description of the Project
4.oh       The Project is the first three years of CWR's new Five-Year
Investment Program 1963-72, as modified above.  The total cost of the
Project is esti-Mated at 1.0 billion Pesos (US$61.9 million equival-ent)
with an estimated foreign exchange conponent, including contingencies, of
US$33.7 nillion equivalent of which US$10.3 million would be provided by
the proposed loan.  The principal itens in the Project are listed in Table 7!.
4.05      The items to be financed by the proposed loan are all priority
requirements. They include: 410 lai of rails and accessories; 110 ballast
cars and track maintenance equipment; worlcshop equipment and tools; parts
for passenger cars, railcars and freight cars; freight handling equipment;
telecommunaications, signalling and other railway raterial; and consulting
services.
4.o6       Rehabilitation of the track is essential.  The plan drawn up
by CNR's consultants (Sofrerail) envisages dealing with 905 km (26/Z of the
system) in the Program period: 496 Im wiLl be dealt with in the Project
period, )A10 km in new trackc and 6,6 km in recovered rail. To malce as early
a start as possible with rail relaying tenders were invited in IUay, 1968,
on an international competitive basis, for 60 km of rails and accessories.
A contract illl not be awarded before the sig'nin  of the propiosed loan
agreement.
4.07       In addition to rail relaying, track rehabilitation will involve
strengthening of the substructu-re, improving drainage, resleepering and
adequate ballasting. Another essential requirement is final ballasting of
the 700 Icm Atlantic line.  Ballasting to date throughout the CUR has been
very inadequate and has been done largely with river stone which is
unsatisfactory. Six s-tone crushers have been purchased under Loan 343-CO
and the proposed loan would now provide 110 mechanized ballast hopper cars.
The rehabilitation and ballasting programs will extend beyond the present
Five-Year Program and maintenance will alwqays be necessary.  Hand tools
and mechanized equipment (tamping machines, drills, jacks, bulldozers,
welding and other specialized equipment and motorized gang cars) are
needed on all working fronts.



- 16 -
h.o8      Wlorkshop equipment includes lathes, drills, compressors, cranes,
presses, etc., required both in the new ma-d in the older workshops.  The
consultants to be appointed to assist with workshop reorganization will
review the shopping list with CNR before tenders are called for.
4.09      CNR plan to rehabilitate/reconstruct about 120 passenger cars
locally during the Project period 1968 to 1970. Fourteen additional
motors are required to provide single engined railcars with more power-
ful traction. Freight car parts mostly needed are roller bearings and
strengthened draw gears.
4.10      Freight handling equipment consists of mobile cranes and fork
lifts for use at depot stations. Telecommunications comprise the main
relay switchboard required to complete the rehabilitation of the commu-
nication network begun under the last Bank loan; signalling expenditure
is on ten automatic gates for level crossings. Other railway material is
mainly steel for bridge strengthening purposes.
4.11      The services of consultants will be used as shown in Annex 2
to help CIR rehabilitate the track and introduce sound maintenance pro-
cedures; to help with the organization of rolling stock repair and
maintenance and to advise on the best use of workshop facilities; to
assist CIr to introduce up-to-date methods of train and rolling stock
control; to examine certain uneconomic lines and recommend possible ap-
propriate action; and, in the absence of experienced staff, to give some
support to management.
4.12      The estimates are reliable.  Local costs include a 10% built-in
contingencies provision. A 7.5% contingency provision has been added to the
foreign exchange element of items to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
The contracts for the locomotives and freight cars, being financed from
sources other than the Bank, have already been placed on a fixed price basis.
4.13      The Project is generally well conceived in relation to CNRts
physical and financial condition and its technical resources and estimated
traffic requirements. CNR will consult with the Bank before revising the
Program or incurring any substantial expenditure outside it.
Financing of the Project
4.14      Details of the financing plan over the Project period (1968-1970)
and the Program period (1968-1972) are in para. 5.28 and in Table 12. Invest-
ment during 1968-1970 would amount to Ps. 1.0 billion (US$61.9 million
equivalent), to be financed 63% by borrowing and 37% out of funds provided
in Colombia by the Government. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that all local currency funds required to carry out the Project will be
provided by the Government in a timely manner as required by CNR.
4.15      Of the 63% to be borrowed, suppliers credits for locomotives and
freight cars will account for 33% and the proposed Bank loan, subject to
possible adjustment, for 30%.  The adjustment could arise out of coffee



- 17 -
barter proposals. The Government and CNR have been negotiating with various
countries for the procurement of rails and accessories in exchange for
surplus coffee. It is proposed that, pending the conclusion of such
arrangements, funds should be provided under the proposed loan to cover the
procurement required in the Project Period, with the option to Government
and CNR to cancel all or part of such funds if satisfactory barter arrange-
ments can be concluded. During the ProJect period the amount involved would
be approximately US$6.6 million equivalent with a further US$4.6 million in
1971/72. The financing terms offered by Government to CNR under such
possible arrangements are r e p a y m e n t on a Peso basis over a ten-year
period at an interest rate of 9%, which while high is not unreasonable in
local conditions (CNR has been paying 11% to local banks).
4,16        Apart from the possible cancellation of loan funds resulting fron
the procurement of rails and accessories through barter arrangements, it is
proposed to use any savings on Bank-financed items to finance the foreign ex-
change cost of additional high priority items in CNR's Investment Program. This
flexibility would be desirable in view of the continuing nature of the Progrc.-i.
Execution of the Project
4.17        CNR is competent, with the help of consultants, to carry out the
Project. It is expected that disbursements in respect of the proposed loan
would be scheduled as follows:
Items                       1968        1969      1970       Total
---------Ub   miilion --------
Rails and accessories (subject to     1.00      2.80      2.50       6.60
barter)
Ballast cars and other track          0.01       2.58     2.04       4.63
requirements
Workshop machinery and components,    0.99       1.29     1.41        3.69
parts for passenger cars, railcars
and freight cars
Other railroad equipment and          1.32       1.18     0.88       3.38
consulting services
3.32       7.85      7.13      18.30
5. EARNINGS AND FINANCES
Tariffs and Revenues
5.01        CNR has freedom to fix its tariffs within upper limits set by
Government as represented by the Superintendency of Economic Regulations
which is an independent agency under the Ministry of Development.
5.02        A general increase in tariffs was made in early 1963, largely to
compensate for cost increases following currency devaluation. In June 1963, a-
a condition of Loan 343-CO, the Government undertook to cause the Superintend--
ency to approve, from time to time upon application by the CNR, tariff ceil1ns
which would provide to the CNR a 25 percent increase in revenues



- 18 -
and to authorize CWR to acjust -ts rates rnd fares within these tariff
maxima step by step, -vithout further approval by the Superintendency,
whenever justified by increases in wages and other costs. A 25 percent
increase in tariff ceilings was authorized later that year.
5.03      Following a study of traffic costs by SOFRERAIL a new freight
tariff was introduced during 1966. The new tariff, which is extremely
simple, is based on costs as related to loadability, length of haul and
varying conditions of track. It encourages traffic best suited to rail
transport, i.e. long-distance bulk consignments, and discourages short-haul
and parcel traffic.
5.04      The new scales of charges, together with adjustments to individual
rates, resulted in a rise in the average revenue per ton-km. In 1966 (when
the tariff was in effect for only part of the year), revenue per ton-km
rose by 11 percent and in 1967 by a further 12 percent. These were the
first increases since 1963 under the general authority given by the
Superintendency of Economic Regulation.
5.05      Passenger fares were increased by 45 percent between 1962-1965.
The cost studies carried out in 1965 and 1967 showed that losses on
passenger services more tlaan absorbed profits on freight traffic. During
1966 and 1967, fares for short distance passengers were raised more than
those on long-distance trains,and this, together with an increase in iuper
class traffic, increased the average revenue per passenger-km by a further
45 percent.  The vely poor services currently provided do not-offer much
scope for further increases.  Unaa2conomic services must be cut, remaining
services improvad and fares increased. CuR have initiated such measures and
agreement has been reached on the timing and extent of the further acticu to
be taken.
5.06      Increases in 1967/68 in wages and in the levels of fuel and other
costs, make a further rise in tariffs urgent. In November 1967, CNR
presented a request to the Superintendency for another 25 percent increase
in the tariff ceiling and approval was given on April 2h, 1968.
5.07      During the current year, CITR has increased some tariffs, still
under the previous authorization. With the further 25 percent increase in
the tariff ceiling, CNR intends to make adjustments which, together with
those already made, should secure about a 20 percent increase in average
revenue per ton-km and passenger-km in 1968. Future increases in tariffs
will be reauired in order to counter the effects of inflation and to improve
CNR's earnings sufficiently to earn a rate of return of about 6 percent by
1976. Net earnings of this order would enable CNR to service all debt and
provide something tawards future investment, instead of having to rely so
heavily on the Government for these purposes.
5.08      The forecasts which follow have been based on constant 1968
cost levels. They also assume that requests for increases in tariff levels
will be made by CTR as soon as it is aware of increases in costs which
cannot be offset by operating economies, and will be agreed to by



- 19 -
Government promptly.  In order to improve thle rate of return as in para.
5.07, tariffs will have to be increased by about 10 percent over the
period 1970-1976.
5.09      Provided that improvements over the next few years will enable
CNR to offer better and more reliable services, such increases in tariffs
should not adversely affect its competitive position vis-a-vis road transport.
Budgets, Accounting and Audit
5.10      CIR prepares annual operating and capital budgets.   The capital
budget has to be approved by the Government Administrative Planning Department.
5.11      With the help of consultants, C4R's accounting system has been con-
siderably improved in recent years. Monthly audited accounts are published
withiin thirty days. Operating statistics and financial records are processed
mechanically.  Further improvements, particularly in inventory control, are
under way.  Fixed asset records enable ONR to charge depreciation on a
realistic basis.
5.12      The Railroad's accounts are exarined by an auditor selected by
CHR from a list of three names supplied by the Controller General.
Audit procedures are satisfactory and contribute little or no delay to
the production of periodic accounts, but are extremely detailed and tend
to duplicate the internal check performed by CNR. The auditor, who is
responsible to the Controller General, employs a staff of about 140,
whose salaries and expenses are charged to CUR. Commencing with that of
1967, a copy of the formal audit report to the Controller General is being
made available to CNR management and to the Banlc. CIR are now consulting
with the Controller General wJith a view-to amending the audit procedures so
as to obtain, at a more reasonable cost, an audit carried out using modern
commercial methods.
Earnings
(a) Current Earnings
5.13       U2R is a corporate entity and is expected to be self-supporting.
However, for reasons set forth at length earlier in this report net losses
have been sustained regularly since inception.
5.14     Income accounts for the years 1962-1967 are given in Table 8.
Over 85 percent of the operating revenue now comes from freight, 10 percent
from passengers and the balance from miscellaneous sources. Operating
revenue has been supplemented, in recent years, by income from the sale of
urban real estate. If the effect of inflation and Peso devaluation is
taken into account the sumrmary figures given below show improvement in
CNR's results, in real terms, particularly over the last two years.



- 20 -
------------- Pesos Mil'ion --------------
1962    1963    19614   1965    1966    1967
Operating revenue                145      215     229     217     305     312
Working expenses                 T61      23      23     -277     26     37
Depreciation                      lb       214     30      34      36      13
Operating expenses               T75              2_3 QZT         307 3__
Net operating revenue            (30)     f7 )    (3T4)   (64)      1     T7)
Other income 1/                    5       21      17       7      15      16
Interest charges                  13       22      26      31      29     h1
Net loss                         37)     BT)     X3)        )     7 13)   7h?I
Operating ratio                  121     122      115     129      99     115
1/ Includes profit on sale of real estate.
5.15        The year 1965 was adversely affected by a wage increase applicable
from January 1, 1965, and a fall in traffic caused by stringent import
restrictions. In 1966, traffic improved with the easing of import restric-
tions and this, together with the introduction of the new tariff, resulted
in a small operating surplus being earned for the first time in CNR's
history. In 1967,import restrictions were reimposed; although other traffic
improved, the reduced total movement resulted in revenues being insufficient
to meet expenditures inflated by the wage award and additional duties on
diesel fuel.
5.16        Working expenses may be broken down for the years 1963-1967,
as follows:
----------- Pesos Million ----------
1963    1964    1965    1966    1967
Labor costs                              175      171     183     177     211
Fuel costs                                 24      23      21      24      25
Other material                             25      26      25      33     149
Miscellaneous                              14      14      17      34      31
Part of the increased cost after 1965 is due to a change in accounting
procedure under which railway freight on CNR's materials (Ps. 11 million
in 1966 and Ps. 16 million in 1967) is charged to the various operating
expenditure accounts, with a credit to revenue.
5.17        CNR's policy of restricting recruitment has resulted in labor
costs being held within a narrow margin.  The rise in 1967 was caused not
only by an increase in basic pay of about 8 percent, but also by an increasr:
in CNR's liability for social security due to more liberal pensions
imposed by recent legislation. Adjustlents to pensions to offset ilflation
are acceptable. However, under present regulations, pensions can amouint to
a nrdximum of 80 percent of final pay, w-hich is generous.  Govermiaent is
endeavouring to control increases within reasonable limits.



- 21 -
5.18        With increasing dieselization, fuel costs have been reduced,
but, in late 1966, diesel fuel was taxed for the first time, increasing
CNR's costs in 1967 by about Ps. 3 million.
5.19        With increasing investment and adjustment to fixed asset values
arising from peso devaluation (para. 5.25) annual depreciation charges have
risen rapidly from Ps. 1h million in 1962 (10 percent of operating revenues),
to Ps. 43 million in 1967 (14 percent of operating revenues). The level of
depreciation and the adjustment for peso devaluation are satisfactory.
5.20        The rise in interest charges from Ps. 13 million in 1962 to Ps. 43
million in 1967 reflects the increasing debt burden of CNR (para. 5.29) also
affected by devaluation of the peso.
(b) Forecast Earnings
5.21        Detailed operating income and expenditure forecasts, 1968-1976,
are given in Table 9, and are summarized below with actual figures for 1967
given for comparison:
---------------------------- Pesos Million -------------------------
Gross
Operating Working    Cash     Depreciation  Net Operating Revenue
Revenue    Expenses  Surplus  Provision             (Loss)
1967       312       316         (h)       43                 (h7)
1968       387       333        54         46                   8
1969       417       332        85         63                  22
1970      h47        326       121         66                  55
1971       479       328       151         71                  80
1972       502       330       172         75                  97
1974       549       334        215        79                 136
1976       586       338       248        80                  168
5.22        The operating ratio, which was 115 in 1967 (99 in 1966),is
expected to improve progressively to 88 in 1970, at the end of the Project
period, and to 81 in 1972, at the end of the Program period. Interest
and debt coverage ratios should improve from 0,4 and 0.5 respectively in
1968 to 1.5 and 0.9 by 1972 with a further improvement to 3.4 and 1.3 by
1976, which would be acceptable.
5.23        The rate of return on average net fixed assets in use should
improve from 0.4 percent in 1968 to 3.L percent in 1972, with 6 percent
being reached by about 1976.
5.24        These forecasts, which reflect the tariff increases mentioned
in para.5.07 and take into account the cost of moving the growing traffic
expected over the period, must be viewed in the context of the rehabilita-
tion and improvement program. It is expected that the condition of CNR's



- 22 -
track, locomotives, rolling stock and other facilities will improve so
that a) traffic will increase more rapidly than in the past with a
marginally higher level of charges in real terms and b) locomotive and
rolling stock operating and maintenance costs will be substantially
reduced. In addition, it is expected that CNR will be enabled to adjust
tariffs to meet increases in cost levels without costly delays. These
objectives, while ambitious and subject to the vicissitudes of the economy,
are capable of realization provided the momentum for change and improve-
ment, now in evidence in Colombia and in CNR, is maintained. The Government
and CNR have agreed that they 1ll take all necessary measures, including
tariff adjustnents, to realize the agreed objectives.
Finances
(a) Current Finances
5.25        CUR's balance sheets for the years 1962-1967 are summarized in
Table 10. The balance sheets as of December 31, 1962 and 1967 may be
presented as follows:
---------- Pesos Million --------
1962                       1967
Net working capital                         122                         24h
Miscellaneous and deferred assets              3                         27
Net fixed assets                           1,268                      1,862
Total                 1,393                       2,133
Reserves for social security, etc.            60                        119
Long-term loans                              3h2                        787
Capital                                      991                      1,227
Total                 1,393                       2,133
CNR's financial position has been weak with net liquid assets falling to
Ps. 23 million in 1963 and Ps. 36 million in 1965. At times, CNR has had
to resort to borrowing from local banks at high rates of interest. Re-
gular working deficits, not compensated for by any subsidy from Govern-
ment, together with a necessary improvement in working capital, have
been financed by using reserves for depreciation and for deferred
liability for pensions and other social benefits due to CNR's staff. Part
of Loan 343-CO has been used to build-up inventories of diesel locomotive
and rolling stock spares and parts. Government has had to provide all
capital needed for investment, other than that obtained from Bank loans,
and also funds required to service Bank loans other than 343-CO. Since
1962, Ps. 535 million has been supplied by Government as capital at no
charge to CNR, Ps. 358 million for investment and Ps. 177 million for
servicing Bank loans, as follows:



-23-
------------------Pesos Million--------------------
1963     1964     1965     1966     1967      Totals
Investment               37       63       50       1121/     96       358
Debt service             32       33        33       33        6-2/    177
1/  Ps. 57 million received early 1967
2/ Increase due to devaluation of the peso
The funded debt, which has arisen from the four Bank loans, has increased-
from US$37.6 million (Ps. 339 million equivalent) as at December 31, 1962,
to US$58.1 million (Ps. 786 million equivalent) as at December 31, 1967
(Table 11). Following upon the devaluation of the peso in 1967, CNR
revised upwards-the value of those assets acquired with the proceeds of the
four Bank Loans, with a corresponding increase in the peso liability of
"Long-Term Debt". Spares purchased with loan funds were also revalued.
The total adjustment was Ps. 263 million. (A similar, but smaller, adjust-
ment was made in 1962).
5.26      Of the gross fixed assets value of Ps. 2,091 million as at
December 31, 1967,-Ps. 442 million (21 percent) represents non-depreciable
assets (land, ties, ballast and track substructure).
5.27      The peso value of assets acquired with foreign loans is adjusted
periodically to reflect devaluation of the peso, and the rehabilitation
program is resulting in the value of the majority of CNRIs assets being
now more closely related to current costs. CNR agree that the value of
its net fixed assets will be adjusted from time to time to reflect cur-
rent replacement costs, less accumulated depreciation, and preliminary
steps to this end have already been taken.
(b) Future Finances
5.28      The estimated cash needs and sources of funds are detailed in
Table 12; they are summarized below for the Project period (1968-1970)
and for the Program period (1968-1972):
1968-1970               1968-1972
Pesos  US$ Million    Pesos   US$ Million
Million Equivalent 2/ Million Equivalent 2/
Funds required
for capital investment     1,009      61.9         1,320      81.0
for debt service             427      26.1           828      50.7
Total funds required  1,436      88.0         22 18     131.7
2/  Increase due to the devaluation of the peso



- 24 -
1963-1970          1968-1972
Pesos   US.ji 1illion  Pesos  US$ Million
11illion Equivalent   Million Equivalent_
Funds available
Fror; borroing:                631      38.7         736      45.1
From Government:
i.  for investment             378      23.2         581h     35.8
ii. for foreign debt ser-
vice 1/                    177      10.8         295      18.1
S/total - Government
funds
555      34.0         879      53.9
CNR's Internally Generated Funds
(net):                250      15.3         533      32.7
Total FUnds Available:            1.4        88.0 6_
1/ Loans 68-, 119- and 267-CO
2/ Rate of exchange Ps. 16.3/US$l
5.29      CIJR faces an increasing burden of debt, the service of which will
rise from Ps. 124 million (US$ 7.6 million equivalent) in 1968 to Ps. 209
million (US$12.8 million equivalent) in 1972 (Table 13). Government services
Bank loans 68-, 119- and 267-CO thus providing Ps. 59 million (US$3.6 million
equivalent) annually;  CITR is servicing Loan 343-CO and should be able to
generate sufficient funds to service all other debt including the proposed
furtiier Bank loan.
5.30      Investment requirements over the Project and Program periods will
continue to be provided from sources external to aIR, with Government
financing local currency costs. Already contracted are 60 diesel locomo-
tives and 1,200 freighlt cars on suppliers credi-ts repayable over 12 to
14 years. The proposed Bank loan will finance the remaining foreign ex-
change requirements during the Project period. Additional foreign exchange
of about Ps. 30 million (US$1.8 million equivalent), for rolling stock
components, equipment, and consulting services in 1971 and 1972 will come
from borrowing yet to be secured.
5.31      During the four years succeeding the Program period (1973-1976),
the existing level of locomotives and rolling stock should be sufficient
to carry thie forecast traffic and investment should be confined to essential
replacemaents of rolling stock and other equipment, and to further track
rehabilitation. During this period the total funds required would be about
Ps 1,000 million of which debt service would require about Ps 750 million
and investment Ps 250 million (Table 14). Of this amount some Ps 870 mil-
lion should come from CNR's earnings, leaving about Ps 130 million to be
secured from Government and other sources.



- 25 -
5.32      The forecast balance sheet pos-tion as at the end of the years
1968 to 1972 (Program period), 1974 and 1976, is given in Table 15 and is
summarized below for the years 1968, 1972 and 1976:
------------Pesos Rillion----------
1968       1972        1976
Net working capital                   244        336         356
Net fixed assets                    2,033      2,870       2,800
Reserve funds and other assets         62        215         390
Total                               2L339      3,421       3,,546
Debt                                 8321      1,063         623
Equity                              1,368      2,088       2,533
Social security and other reserves    150        270         390
Total                               2,339      3,421       3,546
5.33      Althougl total debt rises to a mxdmum of Ps. 1,194 million
in 1970, with a debt/equity ratio of 41/59, the relativeliy rapid repayment
of suppliers credits results in it falling to Ps. 1,063 million in 1972
and to Ps. 623 million in 1976, with debt/equity ratios reducing to 33/67
and 20/80 respectively, which is good. The current ratio wfill vary betw^een
4.5 and 4.8, and the liquid ratio between 2.1 and 2.4, both of which are
satisfactory. Cash balances ranging from Ps. 32 million at the end of
1968 to Ps. 51 million at the end of 1976 should be adequate.
5.34      With finances improving as a result of better operations, CNR
should no longer require to use, for current purposes, pensions and other
social benefits reserves, and would be able to build up reserve funds to
meet future liabilities in this respect.
6. ECONOmaI C EVAiLUATION.
Freight Traffic
6.01      CIJR's freight traffic increased by an average of 4.6 percent
per annum between 1952 and 1961, the year that the new railway route was
opened be-tween Santa Marta and the interior. Since then, traffic on the
new route has increased somewhat faster than expected, but this has been
offset by disappointing results elsewhere, and traffic overall has grown
at a rather slower pace since 1961 than in the previous period (Table 6).
Earlier traffic estimates appear to have underestimated the effects of
increased highway competition, particularly wfith the western lines of
the Railroad.
6.02      A feature of the continuing uptiard trend in railroad freight
-traffic since 1952 has been its pattern of recurring peaks and troughs
due to Government restrictions on imports, fluctuating market conditions
for exports, and other factors largely outside the control of CNR.
Figures for 1965 through 1967 illustrate this pattern.



- 26 -
CIR Frcizht Traffic (mi'llion ton-km)
1965   1966   1967   % 1966 to 1965   % 1967 to 1966
From the ports    187    441    250        + 136            - 43
Other             703    673    746        -   4           + 11
Total           890  1,1114   996       +   25            - 11
Severe, temporary restrictions on imports were imposed in 1965 and again
in 1967.  The overall reduction in ton-km during 1967 is consequently not
considered to reflect a lasting trend in traffic.
6.03      In 1966, the Railroad had great difficulty in meeting the heavy
demands of import traffic with the existing run-down rolling stock and
equipment. In 1967, the reduced level of imports released more capacity
to meet the needs of other shippers and thus allowed an expansion in traf-
fic other than Imports. This situation reflected an unsatisfied transport
demand, and the provision of increased capacity under CNR's rehabilitation
and investment program, coupled with improved services, is likely to
result in suostantial increases in traffic over the next few years.  This
trend should also be assisted by parallel investments already in hand in
the ports of Buenaventura and Santa Marta.
6.04      Details of current and forecast traffic by major commodities
are given in Table 16. Comparative traffic density for 1967, measured
in net tons per day over the various lines, is shown graphically in Annex 1.
In I-larch 1967, consultants, Madigan Hyland de la Cruz, submitted a compre-
hensive report on CNIR's freight traffic prospects for the period 1967-1976.
The Bank staff accepts their traffic forecasts up to 1970, but is inclined
to a more conservative view thereafter, having regard to the probability
of increasing road competition, particularly on the Buenaventura route,
where a new road is due for completion by about 1970. The Bank's estimates
of expected increases in freight traffic for the ten years ending 1976
(Table 16) represent a growith rate of 5.0 percent per annum, over the
average annual traffic 1965-1967. In 1968, on the basis of the Government's
intended program of easing import restrictions, but with no additions
to CNR's facilities, a traffic increase of 7% is estimated which gives a total d
1,066 million ton-km (5.0% less than in 1966). Results to the end of April are.
in line with this estimate. Given the new locomotives and rolling stock
scheduled to come into service in 1969, together with progressive improve-
ments in the track, increases of 6 percent per annum have been estimated
for each of the years 1969 to 1972 inclusively. Thereafter, it has been
conservatively assumed that the growth rate will level off to about 3 percent
per annum by 1976.
6.05      The biggest increases in traffic are expected on the important
long-haul lines between Santa Marta and Medellin/Bogota, where there is no
practicable highway alternative, and between Bogota and Belencito where,
with improved capacity and operation, CNR might well gain a major share
of the growing steel traffic.



- 27 -
Passenger Traffic
6.06      Details are given in Table 6 of the decline in passenger traffic
since 1962. CNR plans a drastic reduction in passenger stock (Table 2)
and a complete reorganization of services is already underway. These
measures are designed to provide improved services for about the same
volume of passenger-km as now, but using only about half the present
number of cars. Road and air transport will take an increasing share of
Colombia's growing volume of passenger traffic, but the railroad still
serves many areas not yet reached by road, and its higher class services,
serving long-distance passengers, have in fact been carrying steadily
increasing traffic. By concentrating on better quality, limited stop
services, CNR seems to have a good chance, not only of retaining passenger
traffic at the present overall level, but also of improving the financial
condition of its passenger business.
Economic Benefits
6.07      Economic benefits to be derived from the program as a whole will
be as follows:
(i) reductions in operating costs associated with present
traffic volume;
(ii)  benefits attributable to traffic generated as a result
of additional capacity and of improved services; and
(iii) avoidance of cost increases and of loss of economic
benefits in the absence of rehabilitation.
6.o8      There will be a substantial reduction in day-to-day operating
costs; for example, the improved track and rolling stock will allow
shorter turnaround time and a much better utilization of equipment and
train crews, as well as reducing the losses from derailments which are
presently very frequent. Savings in operating costs in 1976 and subsequent
years for a traffic corresponding to that in 1968 are expected to amount
to 51 million pesos annually. From the present to 1976 benefits would
gradually grow to this level as implementation of the program progresses
and operational efficiency increases.
6.09      In the absence of the proposed project, CNR would continue to
be faced with capacity limitations and the cost of accommodating any
additional traffic would be prohibitive. The rehabilitation program will
serve to expand capacity and allow it to carry additional traffic. Most
of the Investment Program is devoted to improving operations on the Railway's
most important lines, from Bogota and Medellin to Santa Marta. On either
of these routes there is no prospect of substantial competition from road
transport in the near future. In view of the high cost of constructing
roads over the difficult terrain and of the considerable distances on this
route, road transport is not likely to be a major alternative. In the



- 28 -
absence of the Railroad's Investment Programi, aignificant volumes of poten-
tial traffic would not move at all because they would be unable to find arny
acceptable alternative means of transport. The economic benefits attri-
butable to this traffic, therefore, may be regarded as the 'value added'
or the difference between the maximum total transport costs which shippers
collectively would be wrilling to incur and -the actual costs of transport
after implementation of the Project.
6.10      The rehabilitation program would also provide improvements in
the services offered by the Railways. Thlese improved services represent
economic benefits, which all users of rail services would reap, and rnanifest
themselves by the extra value which shippers attach to the improvements
and for which they would be prepared to pay.
6.11      Without the proposed rehabilitation program there would be
marked increases in unit operating costs on the railway and a rapid deterio-
ration in its capacity and quality of service. The Project will avoid these
adverse consequences. It must, therefore, be credited with additional
benefits representina the avoidance of losses due to traffic decreases,
cost increases associated with remaining traffic and the worsening of
services.
6.12      All of these benefits are closely interrelated.   In particular
the benefits generated by cost reductions and improvement of rail services
occur as one combined effect of implementing the Program.   Since it is not
possible to evaluate the total benefits accurately, the analysis has been
limited to quantifying the proportion expected to be retained by the rail-
way, by way of improved net revenues. This proportion takes full account
of the expected savings in operating costs, but only includes the benefits
of increased capacity and improved services to the extent that these are
reflected in increased traffic receipts of the Railroad. There will be
benefits accruing directly to shxippers, and others indirectly to the
economy as a whole, but these are excluded from the calculation.
6.13      The share of total economic benefits accruing to the Railroad
in 1976, after the full impact of the Project has materialized, amounts
to additional net revenues of 194 million pesos, compared with 1968:
Pesos Yillions
1. Additional Gross Revenue
(i) tariff increases on 1968 traffic volume
(permitted by service improvements)             +  48
(ii)  induced traffic at new rates                    + 150
2. Operating Cost Reductions
Savings in operating costs pertaining to
1968 traffic                                          +    51



-29-
Pesos Millions
3. Additional Operating Costs
Cost of accommodating induced traffic               - 55
Additional Net Revenue                              + 194
The stream of benefits represented by annual net revenue increments for
the years 1969 to 1990 is shown in Column A of Table 17.
6.14      The additional benefits representing the avoidance of losses
caused by deterioration of the Railway system (paragraph 6.11) are even
more difficult to quantify than those described in paragraphs 6.08-6.10.
As a conservative measure of these additional benefits, it has been assumed
that reductions in net revenues as shown in Column B of Table 17 would be
prevented by implementing the Project. These reductions are equivalent to
no more than a 2 percent cumulative increase in average unit cost, and a
2 percent cumulative decrease in gross revenues.
6.15      On the basis of the above economic analysis, the total benefits
accruing directly to the Railways would provide a return of 15 percent on
the investment required for the Five-Year Rehabilitation Program; the
Project is, therefore, justified.
7.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECNI4ENDATIONS
7.01      CNRIs Five-Year Investment Program, 1968-1972, revised as recom-
mended in this report, is generally well-conceived. Its implementation-is
of high priority for the economic development of Colombia. The Project,
which consists of the first three years of the Program, is technically,
economically and financially sound. Cost estimates appear to be reliable
and procurement procedures for the Bank-financed project items are in
accordance with the Bank2s requirements.
7.02      In spite of some organizational and staff deficiencies, the
management of CNR is generally satisfactory and its operation is improving.
Its financial position is expected to become satisfactory through economies
and further operational improvement made possible by rehabilitation and
modernization, together with proposed rate and fare increases.
7.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
and CNR on the following principal items:
(i) scope of consulting services (paras. 3.02, 3.10, 3.17, 3.19,
3.21, 3.26, 3.30, 4.11 and Annex 2);
(ii)  foreign exchange for spares (para. 3.14); future arrangements
for Buenaventura (para. 3.22); Government financing (para.
4.14); targets for rates of return and tariff increases (paras.
5.23 and 5.24).
7.04      The Project would be a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$18.3
million equivalent to the Colombian National Railroads for a term of 20
years, including 3 years period of grace.
July 11, 1968



COLOI3hIA: Traffic to and from the Principal Ports (Excluding Oil)        Year 1966
( 000 tons)
Movements to and from Interior by:
Imports   Exports     Cabotage    Total         Rail     Road      Water     Total
Buenaventura              708.2     465.8       571.2       1,7h5.2       502.8    538.9    -         1,0h1.7
Barranquilla             412.0       34.4        44.1         490.5       -        349.9     95.5       445.4
Santa Marta              331.7     169.3         23.3         524.3       322.0     36.5    -           358.5
Cartagena                246.5       77.6        81.0         405.1       -        202.3     59.9       262.2
Total                  1,698.4       7h7.1      719.6       3,165.1       82h.8  1,127.6    155.4     2,107.8
Source: Puertos de Colombia



TABLE 2
COLO1M3IAN NATIONAL RAILROADS
Composition of Motove Power arid Rolli,ig Stock
ii; :3  : - -  -ni  ,v  .;  Ir-ug h 1,71  ( r-icl.dinN  rl-iat- . r:;
AQI,Ual                                                        F O R i    A 3 T
1567                  1,63               1Y69                197                 1971              1Y72             1.72  ovOr
? . ,zer  /                                                                                                                                                 191-7 'or-
.;O        00                 sI.).ll                   r        .v i...... 1         1           1       0          _                  _       -              -211
: ,: '11 .. :1'5 3 1                    l 7212! 2                                1                21             -1l"
., -  ,.linlne locos.           u8                   1y                  126                 12.12 126                             1                 a2
J *     ral-or ,nits                              38                    20                  20                 20                  20                 20            - 18
a' 1 ( 'e l -'ng st.eam)                        125                  12 7                167                 167                 167               167             + 62
-cer Car Stock     2/
lop- -r>r c  ars First Cl.                        30                    30                   50                50                  50                 70
?-'-r,r cr0 Second Ci.                           399                   299                  239               197                 165               1iJ9            -250
ca-s anp restaurants                     28                   28                   28                 28                  36                36                8
b-1 -.agri cars                                   o3                   13                   38                30                  30                 30            - 13
500                    CIO                 355               305                 285                285            -215
i'.or  ' 'h- i ars  3/
2p  ncrs                                       2,362                 2,312               2,262               2,202              2,132             2,032             -330
p3:2160la0                                     1,213                 1,128                1,128              1,120              1,040              1,080            -173
ilp, .ars                                        595                    65                 601                 600                600                600            +  5
Pi-.ooa cars                                     458                   252                  252                130                Io0                100            -358
oil's-corn                                     189                   189                  185                 189               189                189
.-oc  corp                                       508                   68                  L          68                          668               468             - 40
Othors                                         238                   238                  238                238                238                238
5,563                 5,152                5,137              6,967              4,767              6,667            -896
:'ccn!-cars priv-te owners                       233                   233                  233                233                233                233            -
'al of all freight cars                      5,796                5,385                5,370               5,180              9,000             6,900             -896
1/ Motive Power: 60 additional diesel locowc':ves                                       3/ Freight Cars:                      19G8-1972
to be cmported 1968 and 1969 will
be road-switcher type 1000 hp                                                     Total in service             5,796
capable of shunting or mainline                                                   To be scrapped
service.                                                                           in 1968                     1,000
2/ Passenger Cars:                       1y68-1972                                                                               1,796
To be built locally            200
Total in service             500                                                    To be purchased              1,200
To be scrapped               215
Total remaining              285*                                                                                6,196
To be withdrawn from
*  Of these about 250 cars will be rehabi lotated/                                                   service 1969 through
rebuilt locally.                                                                                 1972                       1,296 *
The allocation between First and Second Classes                                                         Total fleet          6,930
may be varied.                                                                     a   Withdrawal should remove all cars of 30 years and over
Ore  Of these 1050 cars will be l'itted with roller bearings
and new draw gears.



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL   RAILROADS
Type, Age and Qpacity of freight cars
A g e   i n   Y e a r s                     December 1 9 6 7               C a p a c i t y  i n  t o n s
5 - 10      11-20      21-30     31-50         Type      Total             10-20       25     30-35         Total
____ _  and more    .          in numbers                                         Capacity tons
1074        530        342        416        Box cars    2.362              62       945     1,355         70,634
287        368        248        310         Gondolas   1.213              49       329       835         38,085
277        121         70        127        Flat cars     595              59       361       170         16,123
45        112         52        299         Stock cars    508            112       377        19         12,235
14         22         86         67         Tank cars     189              3       164        22          4,469
57                   131        270        Banana cars   458             458                              8,164
13                                        Snow cars       13              13                                195
215                                        Ballast care    215                      215                    5,375
10                                         Others          10                                 15            720
1992       1153        929       11489       Total         5.563            756    2,391     2,416        156,000
35.7        20.8       16.7       26.8      Percentage      100%
Privately owned    233                     233                    5,825
Grand Total        5.796                                        161,825
* 15 special type cars over 35 tons.



TABLE 4
CLTMBITAN KAITILL R_ULU&I6
Summary of Operating Statiatics (arl traffic)
1962         1963         1964           1965          1966           1967
I.   TRAFFIC                                                                                                         _      .
Pass. Km        000,000            623            627          546           513           491            418
Net ton-Km      000,000            952            941                        934         1,167         1,059
Traffic unit    000,000          1,575     _   1,568                      _1,447         1,658         1,447
II.   OPERATION
Train Steau.        000)*         8,419         8,638        8,719         8,748          8,435         8,902
KKCm  Diesel        COO)
Railcar      O0O               -          3,301        2,555         2,770         2,581          2,391
Total        O0 0          8,419        11,939       11 274         11 518        11,016        11,293
Engine Steam        000           4,214         4,82                                      3,734         3,568
Km    Diesel       000           2,374         3,312        4,956         5,977         6,304          7,305
Railcar     (c00                         3,301        2.555         2,770         2,581          2,391
NUMBER OF ENGINES IN FLEET
Steam                       198            178          150           ;50           148            110
Diesel                       53             69           92            92             90            89
Railcar                  I    38            38           38            38             38
Total                    i   289           285          280           280            276           2f
NUMBER OF ENGINES IN USE
Steam                       109            100          85             82            79             75
Diesel                       38             48          51             62            65             71
Railcar                      27             25          20             23            22             21
Total                       174            173         160            167           166           167
ENGINE KM/ EIGINE/DAY IN FLEET
Steam                        58             60          80             65            93            89
Diesel                       130           137         152            180           192            224
Railcar                      -             238         181            199           186           172
ENGINE KM/ ENGINE/DAY IN USE
Steam                       105            106         103            101           129            130
Diesel                      171            189         266            264           266            285
Railcar                      -             362         291            329           321            312
TRAFFIC UNIT/ENGINE UNIT
in use          000,000           8.9            9.1         9.6             8.7         1O.0            8.8
I'ASS. KM/TRAIN KM                   247           216         194             108          160            148
PASS. KM/ Passenger car
in use          000,000           1.6            1.4         1.3             1.3          1.4            1.6
NET TON. KM/Freight car
in use              COO           234           192          207             205          261           240
AVERAGE of freight cars -*
loaded             00             -              -           -               -            -             141.3
AVERAGE turn-around of   ***
freight cars        day          7.3             9.0          10.5            12           8               7.6
AVERAGE freight train
speed               Km/h        19.7            20.1          19.8            19.9        18.5            25.1
AVERAGE Load of Cars ton
loaded cars only                  19.73           20.29         21.18           18.03       21.28           21.43
III. STAFF
Number of permanent employees     15 650          10 927        13 975          13 227      12 082          11 928
Traffic unit OOO/emiployees         101            105           110             109         133             124
-Senarate data on steam and diesel l6c@motive performance are not available.
Data on loaded cars are r,-t available from 1962 until October 1966.  The figures for 1967 comprise the period of
November 1966 throuzh October 1967.   The total ficure is 141,383 cars, divided into 98,332 full car loads and
13.051 less than car loads.
**4 Figures for 1966 and 1967 were calculated on the basis of freight cars in use.



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILROADS
Table of derailments and other accidents in 1967
DIVISION      *             CENTRAL               PACIFIOD               SANTANDER               MAGDALENA               ANTIOQUIA               TOTAL
Length of main line            1362                    904                    393                     416                     339 __      _         3414
Km   ~     4152h ____1111                                                        120-2152                                       11.358_b)
Number  of                                                                                                 _____ __        __ __  __ ____2740_
Accidents    Hours a)  Accidents   Hours aJ   Accidents   Hours a     Acc         Hours a) Accidents     Hours a) Accidents   Hours aT
JANUARY                73          193        54         253         21         131         6           7          19          54        173        638
FEBRUARY               90          418        83         453         12         64          7           18         30          69        222        1022
M4ARCH                 75          200        46         384         19         96          10          55         36           99       186         834
APRIL                 105          367        45         272         24         101          9          44         45          202       228         986
MAY                   132          522        78         416         32         162          8           23        23           74       273       1,197
JUNE                  112          550        75         459         47         136         20          61         14         687        268      1,893
JULY                   61          182        30         210         53         143         18          67         44          200       206         802
AUGUSI                 78          201        23         89          48         112         15          38         34          126       198         566
SEPTEMBER              86          242        69         377         54         129         11          11         27          60        247         819
OCTOBER               157          478       106         441        116         157         21           51        40          210       440       1,337
NO VEMBER             178          622        92         563        133         175         13           38        11           45       427       1,443
DECEMBER              109         h45        106         618         43         169          7           21        16           39       281       1,252
T O T A L            1,256       4,380        807       4,535        602       1,575         145         434       339       1.865      3.614L9    L2.789
Total in 1966          975        5,264       533  c)   3,441L c)    345       1,844 B114                365        78         2,179    2,445 c)    3,093  c)
*  Names of divisions correspond with names of o d separate     ailroad s; stems.
a) Number of hours train operation was interrupted.
b) MQnthlry average for 1967 excluding 570 headquartra employees.
c) Statistics incomnplete for Pacific division,in 1966.
d) Causes of accidents include 217 landslidesin 1966 and 136                                                                                   %A
landslides in 1967.



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
Annual Paying Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1962 - 1967
Freight                         :               Passenger 2/
Average                                                  Average
Revenue                                                  Revenue
Tons        Ton/km          Revenue    per Ton/kn  : Passengers    Pass./km     Revenue        per Pass./km
(Million)   (Million)    (Ps. Million) (Centavos)      (Million)    (Million) (Ps. Million)      (Centavos)
1962     3.6         918               119         13.0            8.2          571 -       22               3.8
1963     3.7         891(1030)1/       179         20.0            8.6          627         30               4.7
i96h     3.3         952(1133)         194         20.4            7-4          546         28               5.1
1965     3.1         890(1203)         181         20.4           6.5           513         28               5.5
1966     3.3        1114(1278)         253         22.7           5.8           491         31               6.2
1967     3.2         996(1357)         248         24.8      :      .8          418         34               8.2
1/ Loan 343-CO, Appraisal Forecasts shown (      )
2/ Further analyzed below for years 1964 and 1967
Passengers         Passenger/km             Average length of            Revenue Totals
(thousands) }        (million)              _Journey(km)                 (Pesos millions)
Type of Service  1964        1967        1964          1967      1964         1967         1964          1967
Ordinary         6,857       4,195       436.3        291.3       63.6        67.8         l6.4           16.3
Rail car           468         380        87.0         83.5      185.8       223.5          8.9           11.8
Upper Class          44         81        23.0         43.6      521.7       539.7          2.7            6.3
7,369     4h756        546.3         418.4       74.1       88.0          28.0          34.4
0.



C G L O ! B I A N  N A T IO N A L    R A I L R O A D S
Five-Year Deeelop.eot Progrm 1968-1972
(F.-ein  ochang, US$ thno..sd equivalent)
(Lo-lcr-eo      eo   thoos-so)
Project Totals                                                            Promrga-  Totals
1 9 6 8               1 9 6 9              1 9 7 0                                  Tota          1 9 7 1              1 9 7 2                                Total
$         Pesos       .8        Pesoa       p         - oPeso                         Pesos...    $         Peos $                          5         Pesos      Pesos
ia: and slontrict" renletals aM tisprosn'eents
1. Track                                          .0      24,350     3,500      46,600    3,500     46,600      7,440     117,550    238,822     3,000     50,800     1,600     42,200    12,0h4     210,550   h06,802
2. Bridge- aM stroctures                           50       1,190       300      1,100       175        500        525       2,790     11,347       175        500       175      1,000       875       6,290     18,552
i.!5F 0ip .t                                     D500     2,1430    1,500          -     1,000          -      3,000       2,430     51,330         -          -         -          -     3,000       2,430    51,330
1,  Linv ispro-e_et                                -      10,610         -       9,200        -           -         -      19,810      19,810        -          -         -                           19,810     19,810
.   Line c-solidation                             _        17,634         -      21h.4O        -      21,880         -      60.914     60.914     __ _       71,460      _       21.550         -     103.92h   103.924
.. 'totals           ....                    . 990  56,211  5,300   78,300     4,675     68,980     10,965    203,494     382,223    3,175      72,760     1,775    64,750     15,915    341,o00h   600,hl6
ok.3hnton cntnstrnntaol ;and t quipient
1. lildi sg                                         -      21,227         -     23,0CO         -     23,000          -      67,227     67,227         -     20,O00         -     10,000         -      97,227    97,227
2.   4ip-eoi                                      460           -       410          -       680           -     1,550                  2 75,265    _            -       _            _      1,55O          _     25.265
i to ls .460                                     21,227       .10      23,000      680      23,000     1,550      67,227     92,492         _      20,000              10,000     7,550      97,227    122,.92
p-; ,r     J-l  I rllinc stock
1   Lncn-oti-es                                   800           -     8,800          -         -          -      9,600           -    156,480         -          -         -          -     9,600           -    156,.80
2. P.sos-ger curs                                 130       8,360       450      11,000      150       6,670     1,03      26,030     42,819       575       6,4o0      325      6,500      1,930     38,970     70,h29
3.R,ailnars                                       150           -       150          -         -          -        300           -      4,890         -          -         -          -       300           -     4,890
hi. a.  Freight iars (ne,)                      1,570           -     8,250           -        -           -     9,820           -     160,066        -          -         -          -      9,820          -    160,066
b. Fr-ipht cars (rehabilitatlon)              l8O       6,500       180         500      180         50O       540       7,500      16,302      _          _         _            -        51       7,50D     16,302
i^tot,ls                              2,830      14,860    17,830      11,500      630       7,170    21,290      33,530     380,557      575       6,4410     325      6,500     22,190     16,170    ho.8167
:;cr^as^ in niacir and lone cpacity
1. 'iar^houses                                      -         665         -        500         -         500         -       1,665      1,665         -         500        -        500          -      2,665      2,665
2.  iarshallin,g yans., sidings                     -       4,866         -       2,000        -       2,300         -       9,166       9,166        -       2,00         -        500          -     11,666     11,666
2. Cargo ha-,dl,nF equipseot                      400      1,610        130      1,500         -        700        530       3,840     12,479         -          -         -          -       530       3,8h0    12,79
h. Statio-s                                         -       7.175       _         7,500                8,o                  22,675      22,675                5 S,650      -      3,000          -     31.325     31,325
3, totals                               h00     1.,346       130      11,500        -      l1,SQO       530      37,346      45,985        _       8,150        -      4,o00        530     h9,496     58,135
Iiscellaneour
1. Co-,,-nications                                380       2,775         -       4,600        -       4,000       380      11,375      17,569        -       1,000                   -        380     12,375     18,569
2. H.-s-ng                                          -       1,170         -       1,300        -         750         -       3,220       3,220        -         750        -        750          -      6,720      4,720
3.  araisiog                                      100       3,250        90       3,500       50       3,500        240     10,250      1h,162       50       3,500       50      3,500        340     17,250     22,791
h,. Consultant se.-eiceo                          300       2,500       565      14,800      585       b,900     1,450      12,200      35,835      390       3,300        -        _        1.8840    15.500     b 45.492
i' stalls                               780       9,695       655      14,200      635      13,150     2,070      37,045      70,786      440       8,550       50     b.,250      2,560     49,845     91,572
Total                             5,460    116,342     24,325    138,500     6,620    123,800     36,405     378,6142   972,043     b,190    115,900     2,150    89,500     42,7b5     584,042  1,280,784
3nntisge.cies                       360         _       1,425          -       510       _         2,295          -      37,hO9        90          -         o          -     2.,425        _      39.526
GRAND T0TAL                       5,820     116,3h2    25,750    138,500     7,130     123,8G0    38,700     378,64.2  1,009,452    4,280     u5,900     2,190     89,500    45.170     584,042  1,320,310



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILPOADS              TAB     7A
THE PRaOJE''T
Local Costs    Foreign Costs   Total Costs
Pesos    Pesos    US$ equiv.  Pesos.
(million) (million) (million) (million)
I. Items Twrith foreign exchange
to be financed by the proposed
loan
410 Ion rails and accessories     117.6       121.3     7.5        238.9
110 ballast cars and track
maintenance equipment               2.4       48.9     3.o         51.3
Workshop equipment and tools         7.2       25.3     1.6         32.5
Parts for passenger cars and
railcars                           8.o        21.7     1.3         29.7
Freight car parts                    7.5        8.8     0.5         16.3
Freight handling equipment           3.8        8.6     0.5         12.4
Telecom-munications and sig-
nalling                           11.4         6.2     o.4         17.6
Other railwtuay material             2.8        8.5     0.5         11.3
Consulting services and training
abroad (technical cooperation)     22.4       27.5     1-7         49.9
153.1      276.     17.02  
Contingencies
(7.5% for foreign exp. only)       -         21.5     1.3          21.5
Sub-Total I                    163.1        298.3   18.3 4T1.4
II. Items to be financed from
other sources
Workshop buildings                  60.0        -        -          60.0
60 diesel locomotives                -        156.5     9.6        156.5
1200 freight cars                     -       159.7     9.8        159.7
120 passenger cars (rehabil.)      18.0          -       -          13.0
Way and structure renewals and
improvements                       30.7         -       -          80.7
Increase in station and line
capacity                          33.5          -       -          33.5
M4iscellaneous                       3.4         -       -           3.h
195.6      316.2    19.4        511.8
Contingencies                        -         16.3     1.0         16.3
Sub-Total II                   195.6       332.5    20.4        528.1
TOTAL I and II                 378.7       630.8    38.7       lG09.5
* Includes $6.6 million subject to barter arrangements.



COLOMBIAN NATIOIffAL RAILROADS
Summary Income Accounts 1962-1967              TABLE 8
(Ps. Million)
1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967
Operating revenues
Frei-ht                        119     179   194     180    263    265
Passenger                       22      30    29      29     31     34
Other                             4      6     6       8     11     13
Total operating revenue       145     215   229     217    305    312
Operating expenses (excluding
depreciation)                   161     238   233     247    266    316
Depreciation                      14      24    30      34     36     43
Total operating expenses      175    262    263     281    291    359
Net operating revenues
(deficits)                   (30)    (47)   (34)   (64)    3     (47)
Interest charges                 13      22     26     31    29      40
Net loss                         (143)  (69)   (60)   (95)  (26)    (87)
Non-operating income(net)         5      21     17      7    13      16
Net deficiency                  (38)    (148)  (43)   (88)  (13)    (71)
Operating ratio -%               121   122     115    129    99     115



COLOMBIAN NATIONAJ, RAILROADS
Forecast Operating Results - 1968-1976
- (Pesos Million)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972        1973    1974     1975    1976
Operating revenues
Freight                                   332     359     378     398     420          438     453     465     475
Passengers                                 38      41       41      41      41          41      41      41      41
Miscellaneous                              17      17       17      17      17          17      17      17      17
S/total (at 1968 tariff levels)         377     U-7     E37                                  51 7  7  1  3   33
Add - increases in tariffs re-
quired to improve finances                  -      11      23       24          37      38      52      53
Total Operating Revenue       387     417     447     479     502         533     549      575     586
Operating costs (at 1968 price levels)      333     332     326      328     330         332     334     336     338
Depreciation                                 46      63      66      71       75          77      79      80      80
Total Operating Costs         379     395     392     399     405         409     413     416     418
Net operating revenue                         8       22      55      80      97         124     136     159     168
Profit on sale of real estate                17      17       18      20      17          13      10       9       8
25      39      73     100     114         137     146      168     176
Interest charges                             60       70      73      91      75          70      63      57      51
Net surplus (deficit)                       (35)     (31)      -       9      39          67      83     111     125
Operating ratio                              98       95      88      83      81          77      75      72      71
Times interest earned                       0.4     0.6      1.0     1.1     1.5         1.9     2.3     2.8     3.4
Debt service ratio                          0.5     0.7      0.8     0.9     0.9         1.1     1.2     1.3     1.4
R&;.-'-rn on net fixed assets                0.4     1.1     2.1     2.9     3.4         4.3     4.8     5.6     6.o



COLOPMIAI' NATIONU&L RAILTOADS
TABLE 10
Siurmar- B&lance Sheets 1962.-1967
(Pesos fEllionj
ASSETS                    1962     1963     196LL 1965   1966   1967
Current Assets
Cash                                  17        6       9      42     32     26
Inventories                           80       86     131     102    113    16:
Receivables(less reserve for
bad debts)                          91     110     146      84    138    132
Total current assets              188      202     286     228    283    319
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets                 1,337   1,421    1,547   1,662  1,739  2,091
Less accumulated depreciation         69       96     126     159    190    229
Net fixed assets                1,268   1,325    1,421   1,503  1,549 126?
Sundry investments (net)                 -        2       8       8      5    (-,
Deferred assets                           3       5      11     115     16
Total assets                    1,IL59  1,534    1,726   1,754 1,853   2,203
_ _, , =                         _, ,w ,
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                     66       93      91      90     62     75
Long-term debt                          3L2     373     506     528    533    787
Capital
Government contribution            1,075    1,141   1,239   1,321  1,442  1,6u0-
Less accumulated deficit               84     144     193     279    282    373
Net capital                      991      997   1,046   1,042  1160   1,
Reserves for social benefits, etc.      60       71      83      94     98    119
Total liabilities              1,459   1,534    1,726   1,754  1,853  2,2,&^3
Current assets over
current liabilities                2.8/1    2.2/1   3.1/1   2.5/1  4.5/1   4/i
Current assets less inventories
over current liabilities           1.6/1   1.2/1    1.7/1   1.4/1  2.7/1   2/1
Debt-equity ratio                     24/76   26/74   31/69   32/68  30/70  39/16



TABLE 11
COLOME7N41 NIATTONAL RAILROADS
Long-Term Debt
(Millions of US$ and Pesos)
Peso
Balance Owing    Amount Drawn Repayments      Devaluation  Balance Ow-Thg
Loan No.  Dec.31,1962       1963-1967     1963 - 1967   Adjustment    Dec.31, 19k7
US$   Pesos     US$  Pesos    US$   Pesos       (1967)1/ US$      Pe ,s
68-C0     20.3      -     0.3      -    (5.1)     -         -       15.5
it        -     183.0    -     2.6     -     (48.4)     72.8        -      209.6
119-CO    12.6      -     1.2     -     (2.9)     -         -       10.9      -
I?        -     113.3    -    11.2     -     (28.7)     52.1        -      1L7?9
267-CO     h.7      -     0.5     -     (1.6)     -         -        3.6       _
.         _-     42.4    -      4.4    -     (15.6)     17.9        -       L9t1
343-Co      -       -    29.8      -    (1.7)               -       28.1       _
"   -   -      -   279.8     _      (21.4)   120.7        -      379 1
TOTALS:
US$       37.6      -    31.8     -    (11.3)     _         -       58.1       -
Pesos             338.7        298.0           (114.1)    263.1              785e7
Note 1: Devaluation from Ps. 9.0 to Ps. 13.5 to US$1.



TABLE 12
COLONBIAN NATIONAL RAILROADS
Statement of Estimated Cash Flow 1968-1972
(Pesos Million)
Summary
1968     1969    1970     1971     1972  1968-1972
REQUIRENENTS
Debt Service
Foreign debt - Interest                59       69      72       90       75   365
- Amortization           61      64       91       99     131    446
Internal debt - Service                 4        4       3        3        3    17
Total Debt Service:                 12T'    -T1J              192     207    T2
Increase in working capital              10       20      15       25       20    90
Increase in reserve funds                30       40      40       40       45   195
Increase in Government debt              44       44      44       44       42   218
Investment
Local funds                           117      138     123      116       90   584
Foreign exchange                       95      420     116       70       35   736
Total Investment:                   212 -            239      136     125 1,320
Tota]. Funds Required            O      9_ X__          _1_         E  a 
FUNDS AVAILABLE
Net operating profit                      0       25      55       80       97   2 0
Depreciation                             4        60      66       71       75   316
Profit on sale of real estate            17       17      18       20       17    89
Increase in social security
reserves                               30       30      30       30       30   150
S/total                            101     132      79        l 201  219    822
Government Funds
Debt service   /                       59       59      59       59       59   295
Repayment of current debt              54       54      44       44       42   238
Investment                            117      138     123      116       90   584
Total Government Funds             230     251      22       219     191 1,117
Foreign Loans
Locomotives and freight cars           41      292      -        -        -    333
Proposed IBRD loan                     54      128     116       -        -    298
Rails and fittings                     -        -       -        49       26    75
Proposed loan (1971-1972)              -        -       -        21        9    30
Total Foreign Loans                972 0            116       70     -37    736
Total Funds Available                         516 U39           1J 2
Cash at beginning of year                  26       32      36       43       46    26
Cash at; end of year                       32       36       43      46       50    50
1/ Loans 68-, 119- and 267-CO



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILROADS
Debt Service 1968-1976
(Pesos Million)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972     1973    1974    1975    1976
A. REPAYMENT
Bank Loans:68-, 119- and 267-C0        35.9    37.7     39r     ii1.5   43.6    45.7    48.o    50.2    52.7
343-CO                      19.4    20.6    21.7     23.0    24.3    25.6    27.0    28.3    29.7
IBRD (1968) Proposed Loan               -       -       -       5.0     10.6    11.2    11.9    12.7    13.6
Freight cars (1,200)                    5.7     5.7     10.8    10.8    20.3 -  20.3    20.3    19.1    19.1
Locomotives (60)                        -       -       18.6    18.5    32.1    13.6    13.6    13.6    13.6
Rails (1971-1972)                       _                -       -       -       14.9    7.5     7.5     7.5
1971 Loan                               -                                                o _  _  _  -  0.6  1.2  1.3
S/total                           61.0    64.o    YD.6     98.8   130.9   121.3   128.9   132.6   137.5
Internal 2/                             2.8     2.8      2.8     2.8     2.8     1.0     1.0     -       _
Total                        63.8    66.8     93.4   101.6   133.7   122,3   129.9   132.6   137.5
B.  INTEREST
Bank Loans:  68-,119- and 267-Co        23.3    21.6    19.7    17.8    15.7    13.6    11.3      9.0    6.7
343-CO                    25.1    24.1    22.9     21.7    20.4    19.0    17.6    16.3    14.9
IBRD (1968) Proposed Loan               1.3     8.7    15.4     18.5    18.2    17.5    16.8    16.0    15.2
Freight cars                            4.3     10.0     9.4     8.1     6.2     5.6     4.3     3.6      2.9
Locomotives                             5.0      5.0     4.6    20.9     6.1     4.8     4.8     4.8      4.8
Rails                                    -       -       -       2.2     5.6     6.5     6.0     5.3      4.6
1971 Loan                                -       -       -       1.1     2.0     2.2     2.2     2.1     2.1
S/total                            59.0    69.4     72.0    90.3    74.2    69.2    63.0    57.1    51.2
1/
Internal -                              1.0     1.0      o.6     0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6     -       -
Total                         60.0    70.4     72.6    90.9    74.8    69.8    63.6    57.1    51.2
GRAND TOTAL        123.8   137.2   166.0    192.5   208.5   192.1   193.5   189.7   188.7
1/ Borrowing from local banks, repayable over 5-6 years, with interest of 11% per annum.



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RaILROADS
TABLE 14
Estimate of Investmenlt needs - Period 1973-1976
Local           Foreign
Expenditure       Expenditure
(Ps. Million)      ( $ Million)
I. Track
Ties                           12
Ballast 1/                     15
Switches, turnouts               -              o.5
Rail welding                   20               0.5
Line relocations               30
Crossings, safety devices
and road bridges,etc.        20               0.5
II.  Signalling                          5               o.6
III.  Plant and machinery                10               0.5
IV. Miscellaneous                                        o.4
V. Rolling stoclc (replacement only
of freight and passenger cars)    h8               2.0
Peso equivalent of Foreign Expenditure
(at 16.3/1)                              82
Total cost in Ps. millions                250
1/ Assnumes that adequate provision is made in annual operating and
maintenance budgets for ties and ballast requirements of day to
day maintenance.



fi 1.JTIi . I_'R.tlTO  F,. \*V  rAThT.CJL
Forecast Summary Balance Sheets
1968-1972, 1974 a-nd 1976
(Pesos Million)
1968     1969      1970     1971     1972      1974     1976
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                  32       36        43       46       50        50       51
Inventories                                          165      175       180      200      210       215      225
Other current assets                                 117      127       J141     151      166       162      175
Total current assets                               3114     338      361       397       2       T42-7   --b3
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets                                 2,283    2,800     3,025    3,210    3,330     3,440    3,550
Less accxmulated depreciation                        250     _270       320      390      460       600      750
Net fixed assets                                 2033               2,705  20 f2O     2,70      2,7540   -G00
Reserve funds                                           30        70      110      150      195       285      375
Miscellaneous assets                                    32        22       21       20        20       17       15
Total Assets                              2,409    2?960     3,200    3,387     3,511    3,569     3,641
LIABILITI ES
Current Liabilities                                     70       75        80       85       90        90       95
LonE-: berm debt                                       821    1,171     1,194    1,162    1,063       852      623
C   vrn       n tal
1,776    1,973     2,155    2,330    2,479     2,538    2,538
Less accumulated deficit                             408       439      439      430       391      241        5
Net capital                                      T,3o     1,534-    1,716    1,900     2,085    2,297    2533
Reserves for social berefits, etc.                     150       180      210      240       270      330      390
Total Liabilities                          2,409    2,960    3,200     3,387    3,511     3,569    3,641
P2-:tios:  Current Assets over Current Liabilities     4.5       4.6      4.6      4.6       4.7      4.8      4.6
Current Assets, less Inventories,
over Current Liabilities                    2.1      2e2       2.2      2-2      2.4       2.4      2,3
Debt/Equi y                                 37/63   143/57     41/59    37/63    33/67     27/73    20/80



COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILIRIADS
Estimated Freight Traffic
lMilli.ns of ton-kilometere)
1965                       1966                        1967                                        FORECAST FOR 1976                         Increase
Traffia       Traffic                                Aver-Fe              Traff10        TrafTic                             Over
To:al         on Prior.I    on Oth-r       Total       Total         Traffic            on Firlt'       on Other          Total             1965/67
fo~ntodit-                        Trarffic         Lines          L:nes       Traffic      Traffic    1965/66/67              Lines          Li-es           Trafftc           Average                         Rem-aks
no-at                               81              68            11           109         74             88                  91               26              120              36                    Imports sill be expanded
'eheat not-Sown internsfly
2 .:ol''t/                             93              17            74            91        135            10                  37               70              107               1                    So-e diversio  to Atlantic porte
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ likely              __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
3  Km                                   14              9             7            16          14            15                  12                5               17              13                    Higher prod-ction in lo.er
Magdalena Valley
a  Act.                                18               6            8             lh          9             11                 10                7                17             21                     Increasing production in -nay areas
5. -acanas                              12             10             -            10           9            10                   3                -                3             (70)                   Continued decline in Santa Marta area
1. 5 -r                                 Iw             -             52            52          70            55                   -               35               35             (36)                   Losses of   Buenavent-ra traffic to road
. ,.cc:05<                               6             -U                    e        11      13             10                                   8                 8             (20)                   Losses of        B   uenaventura traffic to read
cccon                             N/A             N/A            N/A           20         25             18                  N/A             N/A               kO             122
y   -.cnb-o                             12              2            13            15         11            1                    3               16                19             35
zI ¢  vl                          21               5            22            27         29             26                  10              24                 31             30                    Road truckers may benfit fms cost
increases
31. ?ti' ti'rs                           60             54            32            86         98             81                 135               52               187            117                    Big e-pansion in Cartagena production
31- Si                        55              76             6            82         21             54                 180              30                210            288                    Isports Of billets for Paa del Rio more
finished steel by rail
30              21            2             26         36             31                 46                4                 50            61                    Well sited to rail
la  '' :                                 10             21             2            23          10            ha                  25                3                28            100
Cement                               29             16             6            22          25            22                  32                9                41             86                    1966 preduction cartailed due to lack cr
_traneport                            _
1 t,c. -cmi inrducts
ctr j tf asphalt)              108               8            78           106         98            101                  30              80                110              6                    Pipelines may take increase in traffic
18              14            2             16         22            19                  17                3                 20             5
.!1  43         24           12             36         36            38                  35               17                 52            37                    Iscreased indastrial sue
19. -c2                                  29              2            29            31          30            30                   2               36                 38            27                    Competing   ith fuel oil
20. Sans  and G-acl                      11             11             2            13         1U             12                  16                2                 18            50
21.  imestone                            19             13             -            13          10            U4                  16                -                 16            11                    Increase for agricultural. ad building
72. Cth-o  M'ning                        17            N/A            N/A           19          28            21                 N/A               N/A                40            90
Sub-Tota1                         730                                        838         820           800                                                  1,210             51
miscella-seoa                       160                                         276        176           200                                                     350            71
GRAND TOTAL                          890                                       1114         996         1                                                         _,62           56
j Fc:o:--- liars arc
Santa Macta - 3Orota-Medell:n
Sogoca-Aelenccto



TABLE 17
COLOMBIAN NATIONAL PR.IROADS
ESTIMATED BENEFITS AND COSTS OF THE PROJECT
(Millions of Pesos)
(i) Benefits
(A)                  (B)
Increases         Deterioration in             (C)
Compared with      Net Revenue Avoided         Overall
Year            1968           by Rehabilitation        Improvement
1969             23                     8                    31
1970             69                    15                    84
1971             88                    23                   111
1972            119                    31                   150
1973            136                   40                    176
1974            162                   48                    210
1975            173                   57                    230
1976            194                   65                    259
1977            201                   74                    275
1978            212                   83                    295
1979            222                    93                   315
1980            234                  102                    336
1981            245                  112                    357
1982            256                  122                    378
1983            269                  132                    401
1984            281                   142                   423
1985            294                  152                    446
1986            294                  163                    457
1987            294                   174                   468
1988            294                  185                    479
1989            294                  196                    490
1990            294                   208                   502
(ii) Costs
The total costs of the Five-Year Development Program are expected
to be incurred as follows:
(Millions of Pesos)
1968          1969          1970           1971          1972      Total
212           558           239            186           125       1,320
To this must be added further investment expenditures, estimated at some
60 million pesos p.a. throughout the period to 1990, as further track
renewal, rolling stock replacement etc. fall due in the future. When
compared with these costs, the benefits shown under column (A) are suffi-
cient to yield an internal rate of return of 10% on the investment; while
total benefits, shown in column (C), yield a 15% return.



ANNEX I
SANTA IARTA
Cien.,_
COLOMBIAN     NATIONAL RAILROADS
TRAFFIC     DENSITY
TONS PER DAY
1967
( hi r iu.m
zooo
iL  TEr r .
Capou I (
S C A L E                     TONS PER DAY
I""",
1500
2 000
Pto. Wilchce,                     BUCARAMIANGA
1,b..-rracalberrime 1 a
_ it~* ~,err i
IEDEL.L.\        ;'J.lre                 Llarbosa
lBelencito
I   * _   1//  /  (Paz del Rio)
/   L., [)orh.-Id  ito. >~a r        'Chiquinquira
./  i- I  r          ja
Cartago      ,                           -
[iA;'l"E                    t- c,  ha
Zarzal>           B i;. 'uens o           a,O
. '   Ai-es   33 fi^Espinal
BUENA VENTURA \\~\\\\
UUNAUNUF   \ra ePradera
ALI
NEIVA
POPA YAN
APRIL 1968                                                                                      IbRD 2249R



Anney 2
Page 1 of 2
COLOIS It
Fifth Railroad Project
Employment of Consultants by CNR
The list below describes the areas where consulting services
are required during the Program period, 1968-1972:
Track maintenance and rehabilitation. The general condition of the track
is very poor. Maintenance has been neglected. In many sections the for-
mation and drainage is inadequate and ballast and ties are insufficient
in quantity and quality. Much of the rail and many of the switches are
badly worn. There is need for large scale rehabilitation and the build-
ing up of a comprehensive maintenance organization. The absence of staff
experienced in sound and up-to-date permanent way practice, including
mechanical track work, makes it essential to appoint consultants (i) to
draw up plans and programs, (ii) to see to their implementation, and (iii)
to train the CTR staff on the job. Action in this regard has already been
initiated by CNR but will be required to continue throughout the Project
and much of the Program period. (See also Annex 3).
Organization of workshops and the maintenance and repair of locomotives
and rolling stock. Details of the number, location and principal duties
of the worlshops are given in paras. 3.19 and 3.20 of the report. Re-
equipping the workshops and reorganizing the work to be done are matters
partially carried out already by CNR but further work in this direction
will be required during the Project period. Reorganization of the work to
be done in the shops is a matter of urgent necessity. The present condi-
tion of almost all rolling stock, excluding the diesel locomotives, is very
poor and except at Medellin there is little attermpt at systematic pre-
ventive and periodic maintenance. Complete reorganization of the use of
machines and tools, manpower and supplies is required; also systematic
training on the job of CN4R staff will be very important. As an index of
the need for such action, the current availability of passenger cars is
57 percent and of freight cars 75 percent, both of which should be around
90 to 95 percent. Diesel locomotive availability, currently 80 percent,
is also susceptible of improvement by 5 to 10 percent. The proposed loan
includes US$3.0 million equivalent for track maintenance equipment; this
also will require sound and systematic maintenance in the workshops if
full and effective use is to be made of it.
Train operation and control. Train operation involves scheduling and con-
trol. At present, CNR operates with only rudimentary schedules and very
limited control. With the introduction of a new telecommunications net-
work covering the whole system, and also the complete dieselization of
locomotive power, better schedules and control should be possible.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Consulltants should be appointed to ensure that CNR obtain the advantages
of sound operating experiences in drawing up schedules and devising prac-
tical means to secure the control and best operational use of locomotives
and rolling stock. The current performance indices for diesel locomotives
in use (285 km per day) and for freight cars available (38 km per day)
are short, particularly the latter, of what should be achieved. A prac-
tical matter of immediate importance will be the devising of train sched-
ules to allow the optimum track occupation for rehabilitation work at
the same time as meeting public traffic requirements.   The consultants
will also make an assessment of future rolling stock needs.
Uneconomic lines. In addition to the Manizales-Mariquita aerial ropeway
referred to in para. 3.30 of the report, the following lines appear to
be uneconomic:  Palmira-Pradera (14 km);  Armenia-Pereira (60 km);   Pereira-
Manizales (69 km);  and Lenguazaque-Barbosa (116 km);   and the Government
and CNR agree that there should be consultant studies to determine possi-
ble future apDropriate action.
I4lanagement. In addition to these requirements, the services of consultants
(Madigan Hyland de la Cruz and Co.) have been helpful in giving effective
support to management for many years in the absence of sufficient expe-
rienced staff. CNR wish to continue making use of the services of these
consultants during the Project period.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
COLONE3IA
Fifth Railroad Project
Track Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
In 1967, CNR, with the full support of the Bank, contracted the
consulting firm of SOFRERAIL (French) for advisory, training and imple-
mentation purposes related to track rehabilitation and maintenance. The
initial contract is for the period of Hay 31, 1967 through June 30, 1968
and provides for one senior expert, two supervisory staff and three foremen-
instructors for training purposes on the job. CIER, again with the full
agreement of the Bank, has been negotiating a further two-year extension
of this contract.
A five-year program, 1968-1972, has been prepared following a
careful review of the physical condition of all lines and of their traf-
fic potential.
The Program
Rails and Accessories
700 Km of new 75 lb per yard rails and accessories will be re-
quired, 410 km in the Project period and remaining 290 km in 1971/72.
The use of this material will be as set out in the Table attached to this
Annex. Additional accessories (860 switches) will be required for re-
habilitation (225), new yards (365) and maintenance (270).
Ties and Ballast
New wooden ties will be necessary totalling 1.35 million. These
are to be produced from local timber and impregnated in two treating
plants, one at Carare with a capacity of 500,000 a year and one to be in
service at Andalucia by 1969 with a capacity of 250,000 ties a year.
Crushed stone ballast requirements are estimated at 0.8 million
m3 to be produced by 6 new crushing plants starting production in June
1968 and producing 0.28 mill m3 per year. CNR's current production of
suitable crushed stone, 0.12 mill m3 per year, will be absorbed by the fi-
nal ballasting of the Atlantic line (total quantity required 0.6 million
m3). The currently used river stone ballast will be used only in the sub-
base.
Mechanical Equipment and Tools
The program requires the early purchase of mechanical equipment
totalling 3 million US$ for the Project period 1968-1970, including 100



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
new ballast cars complementing CNRts existing 105 ballast cars. The re-
maining equipment (costing about US$2.0 million) consists of tamping ma-
chines, drills, jacks, welding and other specialized equipment, bulldo-
zers, motorized inspection cars and hand tools. The new equipment is es-
sential for the rehabilitation and maintenance programs and the program
targets will not be achieved unless early delivery is obtained; this
will have the additional benefit of a longer training period for local
staff.
Welding of rails
The program plans the relaying of some sections using recovered
rails welded into lengths of 36 m. *This first welding program, including
the line Puerto-Wilches-Bucaramanga, will provide experience for further
welding of both existing and new rails.
Wlorking schedule
The rehabilitation program for 1968 schedules two working fronts,
with four in 1969 and five in 1970 through 1972. Each front requires
120 men which should allow reaching a monthly progress of 4.7 track km.



COLOMIBIAN NATIONAL RAILROADS
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Track in Km
Program 1968 - 1972
Estimated Iorking
Weight of                                              Total      Time Required
Line                      Rails (lbs)    1968    1969     1970    1971    1972     km            Months
Central
Bogota-Puerto Salgar                   75          25      45       45      36      -       151             41
La Dorada-Buenos Aires                  75          -       -       47      48      45      140             36
La Caro-Zipaquira                      60           -       -       -       -       19       19              5
Pacifico
Buenaventura-Cali                      75           -       35      -       -       -        35              9
Zarzal-Cali                            75           -       -       40      41      50      131             10
Zarzal-Armenia                         70           -       -       -       40      17       57             35
Cartago-Zarzal                         60          -        -       -       -       43       43             85
Santander
Puerto Wilches-Bucaramanga             60          29       29      28      -       -        86             22
Antioguia
Grecia-Medellin                         75          -       54      51      44      -       149             35
Total length per year to be rehabilitated             54      163     211     209     174      811            171 months
New rails required for rehabilitation (ki)75           25     134     183     169      95      606
Track maintenance and line
improvements (km)                       75          35      26       7      21       5       94                        9
Total length of lines to be relaid    (km) 75         60      160     190     190     100      700                        3
Total weight of rails in tons             75       4,500 12,000    14,000  114,000  7,500   52,000                       H
Total length of lines to be relaid with
recovered material (km)                 70          -       -       -       40      17       57
Total length of lines to be relaid
with recovered material (Ian)          60           29      29      28      -       62      148
205



SANTA MARTA
O    50  100 150  200 Km GARTAGENAF
v Se ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hampan . 
;~~NL  +  \ v   /            a     A            \   ~~~~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A
4,
. * \ f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~amarra\
Capulco
; WK            /_)          W1 1 cne 5 ~~~Wl h'
BARRANCABE RMEJ             \A
2s ) BUCAlejANGrBARAMAN
o              L  z   MariCartaare
..A,RTAGO              UE RTO
.. , P FEDELLINX BERRIO
Zarzl .S                El  Salt Barb    Pazdel  Rio
-                AnauioBeosieaGrro
'<   --. --)   k       . .        /        > ~~~~~~~~~~Belencito
AQ . . f~~~~~~~~~~~Pu.rtc                 i      f' ogamoso
Yub -Pr Alejandera}  La Dorad  algar     JA
SAn andre     Sa M iga-io
-  1           /     _  >   >   2?  i  y   Zpe   Mar qu ipaquira
Q   0              ; fiMa~~~~~~~nizales, e  e  Betania
REIRA       NTOA          ALOD
PO.PA YAN      t  M+NS°g;7( g HA BOCOTA
y ~~Zarza >                         /E alto
i   ....   ~~Andalucia BeoAie     Grardot
B suENAvENTURA   g       EspinalLN
4 ~~PALMIRA 
- /  Yumbo                      -  - Pradera  O
.- Timba    LI                          COLOMBIAN
. f   - irOSantander                  A    San Ignacio
/ < / ~~~~~NEIVA                   N ATIONAL       RAILROADS
MAY 1968POPAY
LEGEND
.  UiMlACOll                                                   Atlantic Line
--. El  Diviso
Z  \   O                                lllllllllul~~~~~~~~~~~~...  Other  Lines
- -  - -- - Aerial   Cableway
E C U A D O R 
MAY 1968                                                                        IBRD 224IR



