CHINA
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REVISED ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND
MONITORDE'G PLAN'
10 April 2001
Documents revised based on comments from the Bank and findings of Appraisal Mission



Environmental Protection Guidelines for Plantations Management
Pest Management Plan
Resettlement Policy Framework
2



Sustainable Forestry Development Project (SFDP)
Environmental Protection Guidelines
For Plantation Management
World Bank Loan Management Center
State Forestry Administration, China
10 April 2001
3



Environmental Protection Guidelines for Plantations
I. INTRODUCTION
The purpose of these guidelines is to draw on experience from previous plantation projects
(i.e. NAP, FRDPP and FDPA) to ensure that plantations in SFDP are designed to achieve the
highest level of productivity and financial viabilitv with the least possible negative impacts on
local conmmunities and the natural environment. These guidelines are based on the following:
* PRC laws and regulations, specifically the Environmental Protection Law, Forest Law,
Forest Disease and Insect Pest Regulation, Plant Quarantine Regulation, Fire Prevention
Regulation, and Soil and Water Conservation Regulation; and
• World Bank Operational Policies, specifically O.P. 4.04 Natural Habitats, O.P. 4.09 Pest
Management, O.P. 4.36 Forestry, O.P. 4.11 Cultural Property, and O.P. 4.20 Indigenous
Peoples
These guidelines consist of eight sections: Plantation Site Selection; Plantation Design;
Plantation Establishment; Plantation Tending; Soil and Watershed Protection; Integrated Pest
Control; Fire Prevention and Control; Harvesting. and Monitoring and Evaluation
The most important pre-requisite of a successful plantation project is an explicit statement of
management objectives; including expected outcomes for products and production, land
rehabilitation, watershed protection, habitat conservation and restoration, and community
development and participation. Clear statements of objectives will have a fundamental
influence on all aspects of plantation management from site selection. through design and
implementation, to monitoring and evaluation. An explicit statement of management
objectives, in line with the above guideline, should be contained in the management plan for
each plantation project.
II. PLANTATION SITE SELECTION
2.1 Land Use/Land Cover Considerations.
Consistent with the above Chinese Laws and Regulations, no area containing cultural or
heritage resources, consisting of natural forest, either intact or capable of rehabilitation (i.e.
any area consisting primarily of native tree species of >20% crovwn closure) or which are
located wholly or partly within designated nature reserves can be converted to plantation.
Priority sites for plantation establishment, from an environmental perspective, will be
recently-harvested plantation sites or poor-quality plantation sites, agricultural lands where
farmers agree to plantation conversion, degraded sites consisting of bare lands and exotic
weed species (i.e. Lantana and Eupatorium), and dis-climax vegetation types (i.e. vegetation
types that are atypical of a particular climatic zone).
More problematic in terms of plantation conversion will be communities of native shrubs and
open forest. China's native ecosystem diversity is in a critical state. The only "pristine"
ecosystems are now confined to mountainous areas. In most lowland areas the last remaining
refuges for indigenous plants, birds and mammals are native shrub and open secondary forest
communities. The World Bank Policy on Natural Habitats states that such areas shall not be
converted unless it can be demonstrated that they are common, and even then if there are no
other options for planting sites. The PRC Forest Law (Article 24) requires the preservation of
representative natural ecosystems from conversion to other uses at all levels of planning from
national to municipal. Relative priorities for preservation are recommended as follows.
4



Higher Priority: Climax shrub communities; Advanced serial shrub communities of high
diversity with native forest tree regeneration; Open forest in drier areas
Lower Priority: Pioneer serial shrub communities of low biodiversity resulting from
significant site disturbance; Open forest in moist climates
These decisions can not be made on a case-by-case basis, but rather through a transparent,
inter-disciplinary planning process with clear goals, objectives and criteria for decision-
making. Such a planning process is in place in many areas of China, preparing master land
use plans at the County level. These plans should allow decisions on: 1) which areas will be
preserved intact or rehabilitated to natural forest: 2) which areas will be allowed for plantation
establishment; and 3) how much of the latter will be retained in natural vegetation for in-
plantation biodiversity conservation. That implementation units should refer to such a county
plan.
A site screening process will be used during the project implementation which follows a flow
chart of a series of questions designed to elicit pertinent information on site characteristics as
they relate to natural habitat and cultural heritage values, and to document what decisions
were made in light of those characteristics of the sites (see Annex 1). The flow chart, as well
as any photos called for by the screening process. would be attached to sub-compartment date
cards which Forestry Bureau staff fill out for all sites being considered for inclusion in the
program.
2.2 Site Suitability Considerations
No production plantations will be allowed on slopes exceeding 35 degrees for reasons of both
slope instability and low productivity. Plantations on slopes between 30 and 35 degrees
should have much lower than normal planting densities to limit site disturbance from both
planting and harvesting and to retain ground cover.
Special attention must be given to the selection of sites with suitable climate and soil
characteristics for the tree species and varieties under consideration.
A special consideration in soil fertility management is the ability of tropical soils (i.e.
Hainan), especially acidic red-yellow podzols (oxisols and ultisols) to sustain wood
production over several short rotations without serious site nutrient depletion. During
selection of plantation sites, the relevant existing scientific findings and information regarding
the soil investigations in the project areas should be fully adopted to avoid soil degradation.
2.3 Social Considerations
Special attention must be paid during site selection to community-related aspects. Design
teams must refer to the CFAs carried out in relevant sample counties in their province to
better understand the options preferred by farmers. Plantation design must address and
accommodate the following considerations.
Participation
*  Plantation development plans should be developed in consultation with the authorized
users or beneficiaries of the land. All townships, villages and households must be
adequately informed about the project and there must be a minimum of ten days between
the distribution of project information and the receipt of applications to participate.
*  Site design should be consistent with the expressed needs of the beneficiaries provided
these are consistent with relevant government policies.
5



* Preference must be given to individual households, household groups and shareholdings
as opposed to collective and state forest farms.
* Ethnic minorities and women must have equal opportunity to apply and participate.
Land Use Ri2hts
* Current ownership of the land must be identified and the plantation development should
only be undertaken with the prior agreement and participation of the authorized users.
*    Selected sites must primarily involve existing long-term contracts to individual
households with plantations resulting in no change to these land use nrghts except with
the written agreement of the authorized users.
* In the event that sites selected are currently under collective land rights, participating
households must receive individual land use rights for a term of not less than thirty years.
* In the event that any changes in land use rights are identified, the provincial PMO must be
informed.
Access to Land and Resources
* The size of the plantation in the village group must be designed to retain adequate grazing
land, fuelwood and other resources to meet the needs of local residents.
*  Where the plantation involves the conversion of steeply-sloping farmland/wasteland,
design should be consider altematives such as agroforestry and mixtures of trees, shrubs
and grass.
* Accommodation of traditional forest uses must be considered in areas set aside for
biodiversity conservation.
Production Arrangements
* Priority must be given, in selecting production arrangements, to direct responsibility and
management by beneficiary households or groups of households.
• If households or household groups are to participate in a shareholding arrangement with
another party, the production arrangement options and their implications must be
discussed with the householders in an open and transparent manner. The agreed
arrangements should be documented in contract signed by all parties to it and all parties
should be provided with a copy of the contract.
* A contract model with standard provisions should be developed by the provincial PMO.
III. PLANTATION DESIGN
Species Selection and Planting
Species shall be selected on the basis of their overall suitability for the site and their
appropriateness to the management objectives. To enhance biodiversity conservation, native
species are preferred over exotic species for both plantations and watershed restoration
programs. Exotic species should be used only if their overall performance is greater than
native species. Exotic species shall be monitored to detect unusual mortality, disease or insect
attacks and adverse ecological impacts. No new exotic species shall be introduced on a large
scale until local trials and expenrence demonstrate that they are ecologically adapted, non-
invasive and have no significant ecological impacts on other ecosystems.
Plantations are not forests, they are much more like farms. Plantation diversity (of genetic
materials, species, age classes and spatial structure at the landscape-level) is essential for the
ecological stability and resilience that limits the risk of failure and reduces the necessity for
artificial inputs and interventions in these simplified ecosystems. All plantations over 50 ha
6



must consist of several sub-compartments, the size and number of wxhich will depend on the
scale of the plantation, comprising wherever possible different tree ages  (to promote
structural diversity), different species of indigenous and exotic trees, different genotypes
within species, and residual indigenous natural vegetation types. Wherever practical given
the scale of the plantation, design and layout should promote the protection, restoration and
conservation of natural communities by utilizing wildlife corridors. retention of native tree
species, stream protection corridors and a mosaic of different age and rotation periods to
mimic the landscape pattems of natural forest stands.
No large area of single clonal plantations will be permitted. Not less than ten clones of
poplar, Chinese fir, or Eucalyptus will be approved for each county. As a general rule of
thumb, 80 % of the area of the project plantations within a county should be planted equally
to 5 of the clones and the remaining 20% planted to the remaining five clones.
More emphasis must be placed in all plantations on encouraging indigenous broadleaf species
which, though slower growing, are likely to have both a higher conservation value and a
higher monetary return at harvest. Any existing natural vegetation including native broadleaf
tree species must be retained on any plantation site over 100 ha for biodiversity conservation.
Streamside Protection
Simple standard stream protection setbacks are insufficient to ensure adequate protection in
complex landscapes where stream courses are likely to vary considerably in gradient, cross
section, flow, stability and ecological importance. A more useful approach is to relate the size
of stream protection reserves to a simple stream classification system based on the size and
cross-section of the stream, the inherent stability of the stream channel and to the character of
the adjacent riparian land. A stream protection reserve would be an area where no clearing or
ground disturbance would be allowed during plantation establishment, native vegetation
would be retained and no forest harvesting would be allowed. There appear to be two
different types of streams that could be impacted by plantations, without adequate protection
reserves. The two stream types both have a "gully" configuration, defined as a stream with
side slopes of 25 degrees or greater. The two stream types wvith protection reserve
designations is as follows:
1. Entrenched small streams (usually < 5 m in width) with boulder or bedrock substrate.
Recommended protection reserve = 5 m from the top of the entrenchment slope on each side
of the stream.
2. Entrenched small streams (usually < 5 m in width) in fine textured channel substrate.
Recommended protection reserve = 15 m from the top of the entrenchment slope on each side
of the stream. Stability of these stream courses is often dependent on live vegetation on the
gully sidewalls and on large woody debris incorporated in the stream channel. Plantations
must be managed to ensure a continuous supply of large woody debris to preserve stream
channel stability.
Figure 1 demonstrates the application of protection reserves in these two categories of
streams.
Plantation design must look beyond establishment to eventual harvesting. In particular,
design must consider how the site will be accessed for product extraction.
FIGURE 1. Application of Stream Protection Reserves
7



Stream Category 1. Entrenched small streams in bedrock/boulder substrate.
Stream Category 2. Entrenched smalH streams in fine textured substrate
8



IV. PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT
Fire cannot be used as a tool of site clearing and site preparation: sites must be cleared by
hand or by using mechanical equipment. Existing vegetation will be retained at the top and
bottom of slopes, and in all stream courses - whether permanent or ephemeral.  Site
preparation may involve planting holes, strip cultivation or full cultivation under the
following conditions:
*  Full cultivation will be allowed on slopes below 15 degrees and only were absolutely
necessary to control weeds. Where full cultivation is undertaken on slopes over 200 m in
length, a contour belt of existing vegetation at least 3 m wide must be retained every 100
m.
*  Planting holes or contour strip cultivation mav be used on slopes between 16 and 25
degrees with existing vegetation retained between contour rows.
*  Planting holes only may be used on slopes between 26 and 35 degrees, with the planting
holes aligned in a fish-scale configuration.
*  Economic tree crops should be established on the site with slop below 25 degrees.
Terracing will be employed only under special circumstances and must be carefully designed.
Moisture-retaining terraces ( the so called bamboo joint ditches) should be considered only in
low rainfall areas with deep free-draining soils. In other areas, terraces should convey surface
runoff onto stable ground or to stream courses capable of accepting the increased flow.
Any inter-cropping activities on sloping plantation sites should be carried out along the
contour. No inter-cropping will be allowed on slopes over 25 degrees and inter-cropping of
root or tuber crops will not be pernitted over 15 degrees.
V. PLANTATION TENDING ( for timber plantation only)
Weeding should be limited to what is absolutely necessary to establish the plantings.
Slashing shall be used wherever possible, so as to maintain ground cover. Spot clean-
weeding will be encouraged in tending operation. Vegetation debris from weeding should be
left on site as a mulch.
Thinning should be generally guided by operational design, but the actual time of thinning
should be determined by regular surveys. One of the keys to insect and disease resistance is a
healthy, vigorously-growing plantation stand (see Section 7), which in tum depends on timely
thinning. Effective measures should be taken to promote decomposition of thinning debris
and to reduce fire risk. Thinning operations should be carefully planned and implemented to
avoid damage to residual trees and site disturbance.
VI.    SOIL AND WATERSHED PROTECTION
Measures shall be taken to maintain or improve soil structure, fertility and biological activity,
using natural measures wherever possible to reduce reliance on inorganic fertilizers. Use of
organic fertilizers, green manure and inter-cropping with nitrogen-fixing plants is encouraged
wherever practical. The inorganic chemical fertilization will strictlv follow the plantation
models, in which, the fertilizer applications must be justified by adopting appropnate research
results or appropriate test, and the fertilizer application will be adjusted by adopting new
research results during the project implementation. During operation, only spot and strip
fertilization will be allowed; broadcast application is prohibited.
Economic tree crop plantations will require an assessment of irrigation needs and whether the
necessary water can be obtained without impacting other water users, aquatic resources or
9



waste dilution requirements. Special attention should also be paid to the potential impact of
plantation establishment on product processing capacity in the general area (i.e. wood and
rubber processing and fruit/bamboo shoot canning, etc) and the potential impacts of any
expanded processing (i.e. water requirements and waste generation).
VII INTEGRATED PEST CONTROL
Measure shall be taken to prevent or minimize outbreaks of pests, diseases, fire and invasive
plant introductions. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) shall form an essential part of the
plantation management plan, with primary reliance on prevention and biological control
methods rather than chemical pesticides. Chemical pesticides may be used only where
justified within the framework of a comprehensive IPM system and only where the pesticide
falls into World Health Organization CLASS II AND CLASS III, is specific to the particular
pest, and has low toxicity to non-target organisms. Workers and farmers who are to apply
pesticides may only do so after they have received training on the safe handling, storage and
use of the chemicals. The applying and handling of the class ii products should be done by
trained and equipped pest control specialists of the forestry bureau.
An Integrated Pest Management Plan has been developed for SFDP by the PMC to meet the
requirements of the World Bank Operational Directive on pest management (O.P. 4.09).
VIII. FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
Forest fire prevention and control activities must be integrated with the local fire management
system at all levels. Each afforestation entity must prepare a forest fire control plan
establishing a fire control organization, defining roles and responsibilities, and detailing
prevention, public education, patrolling, enforcement and fire response programs.
All plantation blocks over 100 ha shall have fire breaks dividing the area into sub-
compartments of not more that 80 ha. Fire breaks should be 10-20 m wide and should utilize
stream courses and fire resistant native vegetation wherever possible.
IX. PLANTATION HARVESTING
Techniques and rates of harvesting, access construction and road maintenance shall not result
in long-term soil degradation or adverse impacts on water quality and watershed hydrology.
Any logging operations must be strictly enforced according to provisions of the Forestry Act.
For slopes over 15 degrees, logging coupes shall not exceed five ha with at least 50 m
between adjacent coupes logged the same year. For slopes less than 15 degrees, logging
coupes shall not exceed 20 ha, with at least 100 m between adjacent coupes.
Ground vegetation shall be preserved as far as possible during logging and the site shall be re-
planted in the year following logging. Roads and trails must be constructed according to
acceptable engineering standards and shall have regular maintenance.
10



X. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Appropriate to the scale of operation, plantation monitoring programs shall be of two main
types: 1) compliance monitoring to assess the degree to which plantation implementation is
consistent with approved design plans and these guidelines; and 2) management monitoring to
determine plantation performance and detect on-site and off-site ecological and social
impacts.
Compliance Monitorin2
Compliance monitonrng assesses whether operational implementation has been carried out in
a manner consistent with established standards. Guidelines such as these are not usually
enforceable because they seek to cover a range of site conditions and operational activities.
As the term implies, their function is to guide operational design and implementation. It will
be the responsibility of the PMO to ensure that all plantation design plans meet the principles,
standards and criteria established in these guidelines. PMC will undertake surveillance of the
design process through a regular evaluation of randomly-selected plantation designs. Once a
plan has been prepared and approved, the county PMO will be responsible for ensuring,
through regular inspections and supervision, that all operations are implemented in a manner
that complies with the approved plan. To ensure consistency and continuity in compliance
monitoring, standard reporting forms will be used. The provincial PMO will insure the
quality of operational monitoring through regular. random "spot-checks". The primary focus
of compliance monitoring will be the plan prescriptions on plantation diversity, stream
protection, site preparation, tending (weeding and thinning), pest management (use and
application of pesticides and worker/farmer safety) and harvesting.
Manazement monitorin2
Management monitoring will be specially designed to assess: 1) the progress of plantation
programs; 2) the effectiveness of these guidelines and development plans in protecting and
enhancing the environmental; and 3) the contribution' of the plantations to local community
welfare. This type of monitoring will utilize a limited number of practical monitoring
indicators which will be measured at established intervals and regularly evaluated to
determine whether management practices require revision.  A  general management
monitoring program has been designed by PMC and will be adapted by PMOs to suit the
specific needs of individual provinces and counties.  Proposed plantation performance,
environmental and social indicators are described in the following sections. These indicators
will not be relevant to every area and every situation and must be selected and adapted to
specific monitoring programs. These monitoring programs, in turn, must be practical,
meaningful and affordable.
Plantation Performance Indicators
Regularly maintained plantation sub-compartment records and maps showing areas
planted annually, with species/varieties, planting density, and all plantation operations
(wherever possible)
Survival rates (%) by year and species and the extent (ha) of beating-up required.
Extent (ha) of tending operations (weeding, thinning, pruning, fertilization) each year.
Incidence of insect attack, disease and fire (number and area impacted) and actions taken
(method and area of treatment/response).
Growth or production rates by sub-compartment; recording increment in height and
DBHlor cu. m/ha/yr. (based on sample plots) for wood plantations, and annual production
in kg/ha for economic tree-crops.



*   Harvesting operations for wood plantations (area and yield per ha and site class).
Environmental Indicators
* Area (ha and % of project plantation areas) of set-asides for biodiversity conservation and
stream protection reserves for each project plantation 50 ha or larger.
* Annual use (kg/ha) of fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides by species.
* Training of pesticide users/applicators in safet,v handling and risks associated with use of
pesticides.
* Contour site preparation and planting holes in a fish-scale configuration.
Social Indicators
* Number of participation households;
*   Farner satisfaction ( % of target households) for the services provided by the project.
12



Annex 1   Environmental Screening Process for Plantation Site Selection
step 1
Does the site:
1) contain cultural or heritage resources?:
2) contain natural forest, either intact or capable of rehabilitation (i.e. any area consisting
primarily of native tree species of >20% crow -n closure)?; or
3) Is the site located wholly or partly within a designated nature reserve?
If the answer to any of the above is "yes" the plantation development is prohibited and an
alternative site must be found.
If the answer to all of the above is "no", proceed to step 2.
Step 2
Is the area of the site less than 35 ha.?
If "yes", it is unlikely that the plantation development will have any adverse effect on habitat
values regardless of its location. The screening process ends and the proposed development
may proceed.
If "no", proceed to Step 3.
Step 3
Which of the following general ecotype descriptions best describes the proposed development
site:
Category I - poor quality plantation sites or harvested plantation sites;
Category 2 - land that is being used or has been used for some agricultural production
purpose;
Category 3 - waste land or barren land;
Category 4 - other land which may have natural habitat potential (this could include natural
forest with canopy cover less than 20%, natural grasslands (e.g. at high altitude), wetlands or
swampy areas).
If the land falls into categories 1, 2 or 3, it is unlikely that plantation development will have
any adverse impact on natural habitat values (it should be noted that any sites which are
located within agricultural production areas and far removed from forest areas would fall into
one of these three categories). The screening process ends and the proposed development
may proceed.
If the land falls into category 4, proceed to Step 4.
Step 4
Is the ecotype widespread in the general area? (for example, would the proposed plantation
area occupy less than 5% of the total area of this ecotype in the general area?).
If yes, the proposed development may proceed but a photograph should be taken of the site
and filed with the sub-compartment card to record the type of vegetation that is on it.
13



If no, the proposed development should not proceed and an alternative site should be found.
14



CHINA
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT COMPONENT
Pest Management Plan
10 Aprio 2000
15



Sustainable Forestry Development Project (SFDP)
Pest Management Plan (PMP) for Afforestatnon
Contents
1.   Pest and disease management in China
1.1   Legislation and Regulations Concerning Pest and Disease Management
in Forestry
1.1.1  Legislation and regulation
1.1.2  Plant protection policy in China
1.1.3  Organisation
1.2   Recommended Control Methods for Insect Pests and Disease
1.2.1 Control methods of insect pests and diseases
1.2.2 The experience of IPM and the situation of chemical pesticide
application
1.2.3 Main pests and chemical control methods
1.3   Chemical control of pests and diseases
1.4   Current practice in project provinces
2.   Pest and Disease Management for SFDP
2.1   Recommended Methods
2.2   Approved Pesticide List
2.3   Organisation and Management
2.3.1 Institutional arrangements
2.3.2 Pesticide management
2.3.3  Safe usage of pesticides
2.3.4  Pesticide purchase
2.4   Training
2.4.1  Content of training
2.4.2 Training material
2.4.3 Training plan and budget
2.5   Monitoring
16



Foreword
The Pest Management (PMP) for Afforestation was made according to the Rule of Pest
and Disease Control in Forestry issued by the State Council, December 18, 1989 and
according to the demand of professional policy of World Bank for Pest and Disease
Integrated Management (4.09). The pests herein include insect pests, mites, plant
nematodes and diseases. The purpose of the plan is to strengthen pest monitoring and
controlling in the sites of SFDP.
17



1. PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT IN CHINA
1.1   Legislation, regulations and policy conceming pest and disease management in
forestry
(i) Legislation and regulations
The main legislation and regulations concerning pest and disease management in China
are outlined below.
To strengthen pest control and quarantine government has issued the "Forestry Law",
"Forestry Pest Control Regulations", " Technological Rules for Forestry Quarantine",
"Management Measures for Target Forest Pest Control" and "Regulation of Pesticide
Management".
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is promoted under the "Pesticide Rational
Application Guideline" and "Regulation of Pesticide Management".
Manufacture, sale and use of agricultural chemicals. Firstly, any company wishing to
manufacture or formulate pesticides must be registered according to the "Regulation of
Pesticide Management" and must meet conditions for safety, quality control,
environment and pollution control. Secondly, any pesticide shop can sell pesticide only
after obtaining the relevant license and may only purchase pesticides from a registered
pesticide company. Extremely hazardous and highly hazardous pesticides may not be
produced or sold for application in food. Thirdly, it is forbidden to market agricultural
products (especially vegetable, fruit and grain crops) with pesticide residues exceeding
the pesticide residue standards.
Farmers are required to apply low poison, high effect chemical pesticides only after
pests reach a serious level and they can not use the other control methods effectively.
Chemical pest control methods are indispensable to farmers when some pests are
seriously epidemic
The following agencies are responsible for monitoring and enforcing these regulations at
national, provincial, county and local level
*   Forestry bureaus at national, provincial, county and township level in relation to
forestry pests and diseases;
*  Agriculture bureaus (Ministry of Agriculture of China, province, county and township)
for grain crops and vegetables;
*   Pesticide Inspection Institute of Ministry of Agriculture of China and the Pesticide
Inspection Institute of each province is responsible for monitoring pesticide residues
of agricultural products (especially vegetable, fruit and grain crops).
(ii) Plant protection policy in China
The Chinese government has thought seriously about pest control in forestry and the
policy of "first prevention and then IPM" has been emphasized. Gradual progression to
biological control as the main method in the future is proposed. The China Green Food
Development Center, Ministry of Agriculture of China has issued "Pesticide Application
Guideline for Organic Food Production"to guide the production of "green" food (A Class)
and organic food (AA Class)
18



The objective of government policy is to control pests at low population level, promote
the quality of forestry and increase sustainable use of forestry resources. The aim is to
protect forestry resources and to conserve ecological environment.
Since 1975 the plant protection policy has emphasized "first prevention, and then [PM".
The definition of IPM proposed by Glass (1975), is used in China - " IPM is a system
that, in the context of the associated environment and the population dynamics of the
pest species, utilizes all suitable techniques and methods in as (ecologically) compatible
a manner as possible and maintains pest population levels below those causing
economic injury."
Economic Injury Level (EIL) is defined as: "the density at which control measures should
be applied to prevent an increasing pest population from reaching the economic injury
level".
"Whoever plants must control" is the policy in China. The growers are expected to take
responsibility for pest control on economic trees and forest trees, unless extreme pests
such as locusts lead to disaster.
Chinese government has attached great importance to food safety. According to the
"Regulation of Pesticide Management " (issued by Chinese government), "Pesticide
Rational Application Guideline" (issued Ministry of Agriculture of China) and 'Standards
of Pesticide Safe Application" (issued Ministry of Agriculture of China), any producer
must abide above "Guideline"," Regulation" and "Standards" when they make agricultural
chemical products. These documents show clearly
* which pesticide can applied for controlling pests in agricultural production (pesticides
of extremely hazardous and highly hazardous classification are forbidden).;
*  which highly efficacious, low  hazardous and  low  pesticide residues are
recommended for application when non-chemical methods can not control pests;
*  agricultural products which exceed standards of pesticide residue may not be
brought to the market for sale;
*  safe application methods for pesticides including: the form of pesticide, method of
safe and rational application, common dose and maximum dose, maximum
application time within the same year, time from last application of pesticide to
harvest etc.
The Regulations of Pesticide Management encourages use of chemical pesticides which
are highly effective, low poison and low residue (HLL) and prescribes standards for the
sale of pesticides.  Some chemical pesticides, like Parathion, Phorate and
Monocrotophos are forbidden to use under "Standards of Pesticide Safe Application"
and "Regulation of Pesticide Management".
Some provinces have begun making local guidelines for producing safe agricultural
products for producing safe food.
The Pesticide Inspection Institute of Ministry of Agriculture of China and the Pesticide
Inspection Institute of each province are the institutions responsible for monitoring
pesticide residues of agricultural products (especially vegetable, fruit and grain crops).
The rapidly expanding "Green food" market provides price incentives to reduce or
eliminate chemical pesticide application.
19



(ii) Organization
There are strong organizations for forest pest control in China. The Department of
Afforestation of the State Forestry Administration (SFA) is responsible for management,
guidance and monitoring pest control nationwide. The General Forestry Pest Control
Section is responsible for practical tasks.
Every forestry bureau at levels of province, region, city and county has its own Pest and
Disease Control organization which is responsible for managing, guiding and
supervising of forest pest control within their jurisdiction. A total of 2,400 pest control
and quarantine stations have been established at province, region and county levels.
Fourteen thousand people are employed; among whom 8,100 are professionally
qualified technicians. More than 6,100 monitoring stations were set up nationwide and
more than 4300 professional technicians worked for monitoring and predicting.
Each county forestry bureau has a pest and disease control station which is responsible
for managing, guiding and supervising pest and disease control for forest and economic
crops (including monitoring and predicting). Each level of government prescribes pest
control techniques to the next lower level.
Institutes or laboratories for forestry plant protection have been established in forestry
organizations at national, province, region and city level. Forestry scientists have
researched the life cycles, and biology of the main pests and their control methods.
Research results have been applied successfully for forest production with good effect.
Some examples are provided in Section 1.2.2 below.
1.2 Recommended Control Methods For Insect Pests And Diseases
(i)  Control methods of insect pests and diseases
Five control methods are recommended by SFA and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Quarantine: It is a state method for preventing crop damage by insect pests, diseases
and weeds from invading and dispersing with agricultural production areas. Quarantine
in China started in 1930's. In 1991, "The Law of Import and Export Plant Quarantine"
was implemented in China. There are more than 300 quarantine organizations
established at sea, land and air trading ports national-wide to prevent entry and
dispersion of pests coming from abroad. These organizations have played an important
rule in prevention of pests (eg. Grape root gall aphids). Many pests have been
quarantined in these years, such as Mediterranean fly, and America white moth.
Quarantine functions in China are divided into two parts, agricultural quarantine
(administered by national General Station of Plant Protection of the Ministry of
Agriculture) and forestry quarantine (managed by the State Forest Farm And Planting
Stock General Station of State Forestry Administration).
Provincial quarantine stations (belonging to the provincial forestry bureau) are
responsible for internal quarantine of plant material transported between provinces.
County quarantine stations (belonging to the county forestry bureaus) are responsible for
20



internal quarantine for plant material transported between counties within the same
province.
Physical and mechanical methods: These are popular for forest pest control because
they are: (1) Cheap - Farmers do not need to buy pesticide for pest control and labor is
cheap in China; (2) Efficacious - Physical and mechanical methods are effective for
controlling some pests (eg. wrapping sticky plastic sheets around trunks also helps
prevent the adults of ruler moths and Giant mealybug climbing up trees); and (3) Safe -
there is no pollution, environmental safe, and natural enemy safe.
Such methods include: vibrating trees to capture adults of beetles according to their
feature of pretending death; scraping coarse trunks of apple trees is useful for removing
over-winter adults of red mites and canker pathogen. Picking up damaged and infested
fruits is an easy way to reduce population of larvae. Black light lamps are used to reduce
insect pest population (effective for more than 50 species of insect pests in agriculture).
Physical and mechanical methods can reduce a large population of pests, and avoids
buildup of resistance to chemical pesticides. The main limitation is that it is time
consuming and sometimes special tools are needed. The method is only effective for
certain pests. Therefore it is a supplementary control method.
Agricultural method: It is environmental factor based method which uses agricultural
technology to reduce crop damage caused by pests. It includes strengthening integrated
tree management, enhancing anti-pest and anti-diseases capacity of trees, ploughing
soil and exposing pests to extreme climate, sanitation, and stopping pest host
succeeding (eg. avoiding a mix of apple and pear trees and inter-planting with peach,
plum or cherry trees).
Agricultural pest control methods can significantly reduce or eradicate the population of
important pests at relatively low cost. It can control pests for years. It is safe for the
environment and natural pest enemies. Limitations are that the method is labor
consuming and achieves effectiveness slowly.
Biological method: Biological control is carried out with arthropods or with
entomopathogenic microbes (viruses, bacteria, fungi and nematodes) and their
metabolites. Biological control is safe for human beings, livestock, vegetation and
environment. It can control pest under lower population for many years. Biological
control agents are an abundant resource in the world. However biological control is not
as rapidly effective as chemical pesticides. Normally, the cost of biological control is
higher than use of chemical pesticides so growers prefer chemical pesticides to
biological methods. In the recent two or three years growers have increasingly adopted
biological pest control methods because of the growing market demand for "Green
Food".
Chemical method: is very popular throughout the world. Thousands of pesticides were
used, such as zineb, mancozeb, asomate, phosethyl-AL, chorothalonil, fenaminosulf,
tuzet, carbendazim, thiophanate-methyl, lime sulphur, bordeaux mixture, DDVP, phoxim,
monocrotophos, phosmet, malathion, omethoate, dimethoate, pirimicarb, isocarbophos,
fenitrothion, deltamethrin, fenvalerate, cypermethrin, fenpropathrui, cyhalothrin.
Rapid effectiveness is the outstanding advantage of chemical methods. Besides,
chemical pesticides can be purchased at any time. There is no seasonal limitation.
21



However the extreme pollution caused by chemical pesticides has threatened human and
livestock health. Pesticides kill many natural enemies of the targeted pest and in time
many pests have become resistant to chemicals.
(ii) The experience of IPM and the situation of chemical pesticide application
IPM is the preferred approach recommended by forestry agencies.
Different kinds of pests have their own features which require different control methods,
not only chemical method. The principle of pest control is to use integrated control
methods as much as possible, not only chemical methods for the production of forests
and fruits, especially edible products such as fruits. Their quality, especially their security
(no chemical pollution) impacts directly on human health. Since living standards of
consumers is increasing and the quantity of different fruits and forest products is
increasing in recent decades in China, people now concentrate more on food quality and
security. Chemical pesticides are a key factor affecting food security production. Not only
because chemical pesticides are very poisonous but also because the poison material
kills natural enemies, which make people further dependent on chemical pesticides
control pests. Therefore, it is very necessary to adopt integrated pest management (IPM)
for pest control. IPM depends on the biology and habits of different pests. Quarantine,
physical and mechanical, agricultural and biological control methods should be
considered first. Only if the above methods are not successful to control pests, then high
effect and low poison chemical pesticides may be used.
There are some successful findings on integrated pest management (IPM), especially on
biological control. The trichogramma have been reared and released successfully for
some pest control. Entomopathogenic nematodes are used for control many kinds of fruit
moths, trunk borers on economic trees and forest trees. Some bio-pesticides were
studied and produced, such as Abamectin, Flufenoxuron. No poison adipose films were
used for against some diseases. The principle of the films is to achieve pathogenic
asphyxiation of the pest. At present however, farmers can not control all pests with
biological methods. When major pests outbreaks occur in the project sites farmers should
apply low poison, high effect chemical pesticides, if they can not use the other control
methods effectively. Chemical methods are indispensable to farmers in these
circumstances. Pesticide spraying times varies with pest species, crop related factors,
areas of sites and tree conditions. For some pests growers can not use pesticides. For
example, apricot poxes and apricot-boring wasps do not need chemical pesticides.
Effective control can be obtained by cutting damaged shoots and fruits. Eucommia and
hickory nuts are seldom damage by pests so there is again no need to use chemical
pesticides. Some pests like apple yellow aphids only need chemical pesticides if they
seriously infest young trees. Normally pesticides have been used for control of fruit borer
pests in pear, peach, apple orchards and vineyards. Chemical pesticides are usually
applied from three to ten times per year for economic trees, depending on different
regions, species, seasonal condition and age of tree.
The following actions are recommended for successful control of insect pests and
diseases and for reducing the risk of insect pest and disease damage for project
plantations:
* Implement the State Council rules for Pest and Disease Control in Forestry, the
professional policy of World Bank for Pest and Disease Integrated Management and
SFDP Pest Management Plan;
22



* Fully apply successful pest control techniques by adopting Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) methods, not only chemical methods, for pest control;
*  Plant pest resistant forest species, strictly prohibit planting of seedlings with insect
pest or disease, advocate diversified forestry, not a single variety of trees, clean tree
planting areas to reducing pest occurrence;
*  Strengthen management of pesticide purchasing and application;
*  Strengthen training for pesticide management;
(iii) Main Pests and Chemical Control Methods
Table 1 lists the main pests which occur in forest species and the pesticides applied in
project provinces. The type of pests and degree of damage degree will vary in different
sites.
Table 1. Main Pests Occurring And Pesticides Used In Timber
Plantaions Areas Of SFDP Provinces
Species       Pests and diseases               Pesticides
Masson    Pine caterpillar (Dendrolimus    Chorothalonil; Zineb;
pine      punotatus ;D. Kikchil); Pine tussock  Bordeaux mixture;
moth (Dasychira axutha ); Pine   Thiophanate-methyl;
seedling stem rot (Rhizoctonia   Malathion; Deltamethrin;
solan,); Pine needle rust        Omethoate
(Coleosporium salidaginis)
Chinese   Polychrosis cunninghamiacola;    Tuzet; Carbendazim;
fire      Anthracnos (Glomerella cingulata);  Omethoate; Phoxim;
Cercospora pinidensiflorae       Monocrotophos,
Loblolly  Tortricids; Brown spot; Pine     Chorothalonil; Omethoate;
pine      tussock moth (Dasychira axutha)  Deltamethrin; Fenvalerate
Larch     Larger pine shoot borer; Leaf-cast  Carbendazim;
Fenaminosulf. Zineb;
Chorothalonil;
Deltamethrin; Omethoate
Slash     Tortricids; Brown spot; Pine     Chorothalonil;
pine      seedling stem rot (Rhizoctonia   Thiophanate-methyl; Zineb;
solani); Pine needle rust        Bordeaux mixture;
(Coleosporium salidaginis); Pine  Deltameth rin; Omethoate;
tussock moth (Dasychira axutha)  Phosphamidon
Chinese   Poplar clear wing moth           White corpse bacterium>;
white     (paranthrene tabaniformis); Clostera  Omethoate;Zine phospide;
poplar    anachorta; Cryptorrhynchus lapathi;  Fenitrothion;
Apocheima cinerarius; Mul berry  Phosphamidon;
longicorn (Apriona german);      Entomopathogen ic
Saperda populnea; Anoplophora    nematode-
nobilis
Cryptorrhynchus lapathi; Mulberry  Carbendazim;
23



longicorn (Apriona germari);    Thiophanate-methyl;
Italian   Saperda populnea ; Anoplophora  Asomate; Tuzet; Bordeaux
poplar    nobilis; Poplar clear wing     mixture
moth(paranthrene tabaniformis);  White corpse
Clostera anachorta; Apocheima  bacterium"' Fenitrothion;
cinerarius; Poplar tree canker  Omethoate;
(Valsa sordida); Poplar tree    Phosphamidon, Bacillus
Botryosphaeria canker          thuringiensis" ;Entomopath
(Botryosphaeria ribis)         .gncneaoe
_________                     ~~~~~~ogenic nematode~
Cryptorrhynchus lapathi; Poplar  Thiophanate-methyl;
clear wing moth (paranthrene   Carbendazim;
tabaniformis); Clostera anachorta;  Phosphamidon; Bacillus
Simonii   Apocheima cinerarius; Mulberry  thuringiensis-; Phosmet;
longicorn (Apriona germari);   White corpse
Saperda populnea ; Anoplophora  bacterium"', Omethoate
nobilis; Poplar tree canker (Valsa  Entomopathogenic
sordida)                       nematode"
Oriental moth (Cnidocampa      Monocrotophos;
Paulowni flavescens); Crytothelea variegata;  Trichlorphon; Phosmet
a         Witch's broom(MLO)
Acacia    Powdery mildew(Oidium sp.);    Carbendazim; Tuzet;
(Acacia   Lymantria xylin; Geometrid (Buzura  Bordeaux mixture;
mangium  suppressaria)                   Omethoate,
)                                        White corpse bacterium-'
Trichlorphon; Thiophanate-
methyl
Horsetail  Lymantria xylina; Horsetail   Chorothalonil; Tuzet;
beefwood beefwood bacterial wilt; Curculio  Trichlorpho; Omethoate
Beautiful  Oriental moth (Cnidocampa     White corpse bacterium",
sweetgu   flavescens); Tent caterpillar  Phosmet; Deltamethrin;
m         (Malacosoma neustria testacea)  Fenvalerate
Black     Oriental moth (Cnidocampa      Carbendazim;
locust    flavescens); Geometrid; Crytothelea  Chorothalonil;
variegata; Botryosphaeria canker  Thiophanate-methyl;
(Botryosphaeria ribis)         White corpse bacteriume
Methamidophos;
Dimethoate; Phoxim
Maoso     Ceracris kiangsu; Algedonia    Zineb; Carbendazim;
bamboo    coclesalis; Pantana sinica;    Thiophanate-methyl;
Cyrtorachelus buqueti; Sterostram  Deltamethrin; Fenvalerate;
corticioides; Balansia take    Methamidophos;
Vstilagosh iraiana             Trichlorphon,
Rubber    Canker; Powdery mildew;        Zineb; Tuzet; Lime-
tree      Anthracnos; Bark beetles       Sulphur; Bordeaux mixture;
Carbendazim;
24



Chorothalonil; Phoxim;
Deltamethrin; Fenvalerate;
Malathion
Red shell  Ceracris kiangsu; Algedonia        Bordeaux mixture;
bamboo    coclesalis; Pantana sinica;        Carbendazim;
Loudont dispar; Sterostram         Chorothalonil;
corticioides                       Deltamethrin; Fenvalerate;
Methamidophos
Notes: Pesticides marked with" *" are bio-pesticides
Source: Statistics from project provinces
Based on the statistics from project provinces, the main pests occurring and pesticides
usually applied for economic tree crops in project province are listed in Table 2 below.
25



Table 2. Main Pests Occurinng and Pesticides Used for Economic Tree Crops in Project Provinces
Species      Insect pests and diseases           Pesticides
Walnut bacterial blight; Walnut  Thiophanate-methyl;
melanconis disease ; Walnut      Zineb; Lime-Sulphur;
Bordeaux mixture
Walnut     cytcospora canker ; Walnut
anthracnose
walnut sun moth (Attrijuglans    Prothiofos;
hetaohe,); White-striped longicorn  Monocrotophos;
(Batoccera horsfieldi); Giant mealybug Phosmet; Deltamethrin;
(Drosicha corpulenta)            Fenvalerate
Chestnut gall wasp (Dryocosmus   Dimethoate;
kuriphilus); Large chestnut aphid  Omethoate; Phosmet;
Chestnut   (Lachnus tropicalis); Peach pyralid  Trichlorphon;
moth (Dichocrocis punctiferalis);  Deltamethrin;
Paratetranychus sp.; Chestnut clear  Fenvalerate
wing moth (Aegeria molybdoceps)
Apricot pox                     Lime-Sulphur; Bordeaux
mixture
Apricot    Apricot boring wasp (Eurytoma    Phoxim; Deltamethrin;
samsonovi);Plum fruit moth       Fenvalerate; Malathion;
(Grapholitha funebrana); Peach   Fenitrothion
longicorn beetle (Aromia bungil); White Entomopathogenic
peach scale (Pseudaulacaspis     nematode'
pentagona)
Rhizome rot                      Bordeaux mixture;
Thiophanate-methyl
Gingko     (Dictyoploca japonica ); (Clania  Deltamethrin;
varieguta); Tea brown chafer     Malathion; Fenitrothion;
Diflubenzu ron'
Jujube witche's broom (MLO); Jujube Triadimefon; Lime-
rust                             Sulphur; Bordeaux
Chinese                                     mixture
date       Peach fruit borer (Carposina     Fenitrothion; Phoxim;
niponensis); Bud-eating weevil   Phosmet; Fenvalerate
(Scythropus yasumatsui); Tortoise wax
scale (Ceroplastesjaponicus); Jujube Malathion
midge (Contarinia sp.)           Deltamethrin
Pear scab; Pear perennial canker;  Thiophanate-methyl;
Pear rust; Pear tree dieback; Pear  Tuzet; Carbendazim;
brown spot                       Lime-Sulphur;
Bordeaux mixture
26



Pear       Peach fruit borer (Carposina      Phosmet; Fenitrothion;
niponensis); Oriental fruit moth  Trichlorphon; Phoxim;
(Grapholitha molesta); Yellow-brown  Deltameth rin;
stinkbug (Halyomorpha picus); Pear  Fenvalerate; Malathion;
fruit sawfly (Hoplocampa pyricola);  Imidacloprid-
Pear jumping plant lice (Psylla pyri);
Pear curcuclio (Rhynchites
foveipennis)
Whinghac-  Leaf spot disease                 Carbendazim; Zineb
kberry                                       Lime-Sulphur; Bordeaux
mixture
Chinese    Gummosis; Rust; Twig blight,      Tuzet; Zineb ; Lime-
prickly ash                                  Sulphur; Bordeaux
mixture
Aphid                             Dimethoate; Pirimicarb
Cercospora leaf spot; Brown spot  Bordeaux mixture;
Carbendazim; Tuzet
Eucommia   Tussock moth; Eucommia mengni     Phoxim; Deltamethrin;
armyworm                         Bacillus thuringiensis';
Fenvalerate
Anth racnos (Glomerella cingulata),  Carbendazim;
white star disease, tea pan cake  Chorothalonil;
disease                          Thiophanate-methyl;
Tuzet
Tea        Geometrid (Buzura suppressaria;   Phoxim; Deltamethrin;
Biston marginata); Tussock moth  Fenvalerate; Malathion
(Euproctis pseudocnspersa)
Peach tree leaf curl; Peach bacterial  Thiophanate-methyl;
shot hole; Peach cercospora shot hole; Tuzet; Lime-Sulphur;
Peach clasterosporium shot hole,  Bordeaux mixture
Peach fruit borer (Carposina     White corpse
Peach      niponensis); Peach pyralid moth   bacterium" Malathion;
(Dichocrocis punctiferalis); Plum fruit  Fenitrothion;
moth (Grapholitha funebrana); Green  Deltamethrin; Bacillus
peach aphid (Myzus persicae); Apple thuringiensis'; Lime-
tree borer (Conopia hector); White  Sulphur
peach scale (Pseudaulacaspis     Suphur;
pentagona)                       Cyperrnethrin;
Fenpropathri
Pomegranate tree dieback (Zythia  Carbendazim; Zineb;
versoniana); Brown spot (Cercospora Lime-Sulphur; Asomate
punicae),
27



Pomegranat Peach pyralid moth (Dichocrocis   Malathion; Fenitrothion;
e          punctiferalis); Peach fruit borer  Deltamethrin;
(Carposina niponensis); Tortoise wax Cypermethrin;
scale (Ceroplastes japonicus);    Fenpropathri
(Eriococcus)lageros troemiae
Powdery mildew; Anthracnose; Canker Zineb; Tuzet; Lime-
Rubber tree                                  Sulphur; Bordeaux
mixture
Bark beetle                       Phoxim; Deltamethrin;
Fenvalerate; Malathion
Apple alternaria leaf spot; Apple of  Zineb; Tuzet; Lime-
Apple      canker (Valsa mail); Apple alternaria  Sulphur; Asomate;
leaf spot; Apple tree of dieback; Apple Iprodione; Bordeaux
heart rot; Apple rust             mixture
Apple leaf curing aphid (Myzus    Lime-Sulphur;
malisuctus); Green peach aphid    Fenitrothion;
(Myzus persicae); Smaller apple leaf Trichlorphon;
roller (Adoxophyes orana); Peach fruit Imidacloprid-;
borer (Carposina niponensis);     Deltamethrin;
European red mite (Panonychus ulml); Fenvalerate;
Hawthorn spider mite (Tetranychus  Dimethoate; Pirimicarb
viennensis)
Spot disease                      Bordeaux mixture;
Chinese yew                                  Zineb; Tuzet
Borer moth                        Malathion; Fenvalerate;
Fenitrothion;
Trichlorphon
Tea-oil tree Anthracnose, tea sooty mold disease  Carbendazim; Tuzet
Geometrid (Buzura suppressania;   Deltamethrin;
Biston marginata); Lcerya purchasi  Trichlorphon; Malathion;
Fenitrothion
Citrus scab; Citrus canker; Citrus  Lime-Sulphur;
phoma rot                        Bordeaux mixture;
Thiophanate-methyl;
Tuzet
Citrus     Citrus rust mite (Phyllocoptruta  White corpse
oleivora); Broad mite             bacterium"' Lime-
(Polyphagotarsonemus latus); Citrus  Sulphur; Fenitrothion;
red mite (Panonychus citri); Cottony  Deltamethrin;
cushion scale (lcerya purchasi);  Trichlorphon; Malathion;
Arrowhead scale (Unaspis          Fenvalerate;
yanonensis); Mulberry white-spotted  Trichlorphon
longicorn (Anoplophora chinensis);
IZadezhdilla cantori
28



Hickory nut Canker; Walnut melanconis disease   Lime-Sulphur;
Bordeaux mixture;
Thiophanate-methyl;
Tuzet
White-striped longicorn (Batoccera  Deltamethrin;
horsfieldi)                         Trichlorphon
Willow      Black velvety chafer (Serica        Fenitrothion;
orientalis); Proagopertha lucidula  Phosphamidon
Notes: Pesticides with "  mark are bio-pesticides
Source: statistics from project provinces
The damage caused by pests directly influences quality and quantity of economic tree
products. Different pests cause various degree damages in different years and areas.
Some pests can cause damage to 50-80% of plants if appropriate pest control is not
applied. Some pests (such as walnut sun moth, fruit moth of apricots and plums, pear
scab) can cause 95% damage if pest control methods were not implemented correctly.
Pest control is particularly important for economic trees.
1.4 Current practice in project provinces
The recommended practice on government forestry bureaus and forest farms is to use
integrated control methods as much as possible, not only chemical methods. Utilizing all
suitable techniques and methods in as (ecologically) compatible a manner as possible
will maintains pest population levels below those causing Economic Injury Level.
Recommended IPM methods include quarantine; physical and mechanical method;
agricultural method; biological method and chemical method.
The pest control situation depends on species of pest and degree of damage. Now,
chemical method still the main method. Meantime quarantine; physical and mechanical
method; agricultural method; biological method are also were applied to control pests.
The main control methods depends on the type of pest (e.g, apricot poxes and apricot-
boring wasps do not require chemical pesticides. Cutting damages shoots can provide
effective control. But, up to now in China, the Green peach aphid (Myzus persicae)
requires chemical control methods.
Farmers current knowledge of IPM and use of pesticides is obtained mainly from TV
programs concerning agricultural knowledge (eg.CCTV-8), books about pesticide
application techniques or pesticide handbooks. Some training courses are provided by
government agencies and advice from technicians usually from county or township level.
Some technical handbook and textbooks for plant protection provide information on IPM
methods, but these do not deal with all project tree crops in a standard or simple
manner. The China Green Food Development Center has issued "Rules of operation for
the production of green food of fruit trees (economic crops)".
For health protection, some farmers wear protective clothes, caps, masks and gloves
while they sprayed pesticides. Most farmers have bought hand-sprayers. A few farmers
have mobile-sprayers. Farmers may lend sprayers to each other. Some farmers buy
special work clothes and others wear old work clothes while spraying pesticides.
29



Farmers will use which ever pest and disease control methods provide them with the
best income. Chemical methods are generally effective and quick acting. But farmers
will abandon using chemical methods if they can get a better net income using non-
chemical methods. It is very convenient for farmers to buy pesticides in China. Almost
every township has a pesticide shop. For this reason farmers normally buy pesticides
only when they are about to use them. They buy the amount of pesticides according to
their need and generally use up the pesticide they have bought. Remaining pesticides
are kept by farmers in their own storage. To enable them to make informed choices, it is
important that farmers have good information about the range of methods available to
them and the advantages and disadvantages of each.
Improved training, and more intensive managing, guiding and supervising by the
responsible pest and disease control units is necessary to improve adoption of an IPM
approach. Further training is needed to ensure that farmers understand how to handle
and apply pesticides safely and efficiently.
Township hospitals can deal with farmers' accidental poisoning problem caused by
pesticide application. Farmers with serious pesticide poisoning can be sent to county
level hospitals. Staff at both levels are trained in treatment of cases of chemical
poisoning.
2. PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT FOR SFDP
2.1 Recommended Methods
The plant protection policy of " First prevention, and then IPM" should be implemented in
project sites. The methods of quarantine, physical and mechanic control, agricultural
control, biological control and chemical control should be adopted in the project sites for
pest management. Biological control, especially using bio-pesticides, should be
emphasized for pest control. At the same time attention will be paid to increasing yield
and quality of forestry in the project areas, reducing pollution and protecting
environment.
This project policy will be implemented by:
*   Development of IPM recommendations for project plantation species;
*   Development of training materials and programs for IPM and safe pesticide use;
*  Training project staff at county and township level and project farmers in IPM
methods and safe methods of use of pesticides;
*   Effective monitoring and prediction of pests and diseases for project plantation
species;
*  Screening, purchase and distribution to project sites of only approved pesticides
This document by PMC will fuction as general IPM principles and methods and tree crop
specific recommendations for all project tree crops. These general guidelines will be
refined by provincial PMO to ensure recommendations are relevant for conditions
prevailing each project province.
The project will arrange training of county and township technical staff and participating
farmers in methods relevant to the particular species being planted at each site. Details
30



of training courses are provided in section 2.6. Training courses will emphasize the
importance and potential benefits of non-chemical methods be optimized and indicate
under what circumstances chemical methods can be used to supplement the non-
chemical methods
Monitoring and forecasting of pests and diseases is the responsibility of the Pest and
Disease Control Station at each level of government. Their role will be critical in
effective IPM.
Similar to the World Bank it is also the policy of the Chinese government to emphasize
the use of agronomic, biological and other non-chemical methods plus pest monitoring
and application of pesticides only when other methods have failed and pest monitoring
indicates that pest levels are exceeding economic thresholds
2.2 Approved Pesticide List
The following pesticides are recommended as being in accordance with the above IPM
approach and have been screened to be consistent with the World Bank's procurement
guidelines for pesticides (OP 4.09).  Additional chemicals may be identified during
project implementation and the Bank will be provided with the same details prior to them
being added to the purchase inventory.
Table 3 Approved Pesticide List
Species         Pests and diseases        Pesticides              Classifi-
cation of
pesticide
(WHO)
Pine seedling stem rot        Metalaxyl                 Class
(Rhizoctonia solani),         Chlorothalonil,           Ill
Masson     Pine needle rust              Mancozeb,                 Class
pine       (Coleosporium salidaginis)    Carbendazime              U
Zineb                     Class
U
Triadimefon,              Class
Bordeaux mixture,         U
Class
Class
Pine caterpillar (Dendrolimus  Deltamethrin,            Class 11
punotatus ;D. Kikchil),  .    Cypermethrin,             Class 11
Pine tussock moth (Dasychira  I                         Class 11
axutha                        Fenvalerate,              Class
Bacillus thuringiensis-,  11l
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana_
31



Chinese   Anthracnos(Glomerella      Tuzet                    Class 11
fire      cingulata),               I                         Class
Cercospora pinidensiflorae  Carbendazim,            u
Bordeaux mixture,
Polychrosis cunninghamiacola, Phoxim                Class 11
Fenitrothion            Class 11
Malathion                Class
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I ll
Loblolly  Brown spot,               I Chorothalonil           Class
pine                                 Carbendazim              U
Mancozeb                Class
U
Class
U
Tortricids,                 Deltamethrin.           Class 11
Pine tussock moth (Dasychira  Fenvalerate           Class 11
axutha)                      evlrt                  Class 11
Fenitrothion,           Class
Malathion                III
Larch     Leaf-cast                  Carbendazim              Class
Zineb,                   U
Chorothalonil            Class
U
Tuzet,                   Class
U
_____________________Class 11
Larger pine shoot borer;    Fenitrothion,           Class 11
Phoxim                  Class
Trichlorphon             Cla
Slash     Brown spot;               1 Chorothalonil           Class
pine      Pine seedling stem rot     Thiophanate-methyl,      U
(Rhizoctonia solani);                               Class
Pine needle rust           Zineb,                   u
(Coleosporium salidaginis);  Carbendazim,           Class
Mancozeb,                U
Triadimefon              Class
Bordeaux mixture        Cuass
Class
Class
32



Tortricids;                 Deltamethrin            Class 11
Pine tussock moth (Dasychira  Fenvalerate           Class 11
axutha)                     Fenitrothion,           Class 11
Cypermethrin            Class
Malathion,               Ill
Chinese   Poplar clear wing moth      Muscarding Beauveria
white     (paranthrene tabaniformis);  bassiana-
poplar    Clostera anachorta;        Fenthion                 Class 11
Cryptorrhynchus lapathi;    prothiofos              Class 11
Apocheima cinerarius;       pe.rothion              Class 11
Mulberry longicorn (Apriona  Fenitrothion,          Class 11
germar/9;           ~~Deltamethrin,          Class
germari);                   Trichlorphon            Clas
Saperda populnea            Phosmet                 Class II
Anoplophora nobilis
Italian  ; Poplar tree Botryosphaeria  Thiophanate-methyl,    Class
poplar    canker (Botryosphaeria ribis)                       U
Poplar tree canker (Valsa   Carbendazim,            Class
sordida),                   Mancozeb,               U
Asomate                  Class
Thiophanate              Class 11
Bordeaux mixture        Class 11
Lime-Sulphur
Cryptorrhynchus lapathi,    Fenthion,               Class 11
Mulberry longicorn (Apriona  prothiofos             Class 11
germari);                   Fenitrothion,           Class 11
Saperda populnea;           Deltamethrin,           Class
Saperda populnea     TrichlorphonCls
Anoplophora nobilis;        Phosmet                 IIl
Poplar clear wing moth      Muscarding Beauveria    Class 11
(paranthrene tabaniformis),  bassiana-
Clostera anachorta,
Apocheima
cinerarius; Mulberry longicorn
(Apriona germarn);
Simonii   Poplar tree canker (Valsa  Thiophanate-methyl       Class
sordida)                    Thohnt.ehl              U
Carbendazim             Class
Asomate,                 U
Class 11
33



T Cryptorrhynchus lapathi,   Fenthion,                Class 11
Poplar clear wing moth      prothiofos              Class 11
(paranthrene tabaniformis),  Fenitrothion,           Class 11
Clostera anachorta;         Deltamethrin,           Class
Apocheima cinerarius,       Phosmet                  Class II
Mulberry longicorn (Apriona  ChIorfluazuron-         Class
germa   pu);                Tebufenozide'            U
Saperda populnea;            Muscarding Beauveria    Class
Anoplophora nobilis;        bassiana-                1ll
Paulowni Witch's broom(MLO)           Terramycin
a         Oriental moth (Cnidocampa   Trichlorphon             Class
flavescens),                Phosmet                 IIl
Crytothelea variegata                                Class 11
Acacia    Powdery mildew (Oidium sp.)  Carbendazim             Class
(Acacia                               Thiophanate-methyl       U
mangium                               Triadimefon,             Class
U
Class
Ill
Lymantria xylin;            Trich lo rphon           Class
Geometrid (Buzura           Deltamethrin,            III
suppressaria)               Cypermethrin             Class 11
Class 11
Fenvalerate,             Class 11
Bacillus thuringiensis',  Class
Muscarding Beauveria    1ll
bassiana 
Horsetail  Horsetail beefwood bacterial  Chorothalonil        Class
beefwood wilt;                        Carbendazim.             U
Mancozeb,                Class
Bordeaux mixture         Class
U
Curculio ,                  Trichlorphon             Class
Phosmet                 III
Lymantria xylina,           Fenitrothion, Fenpropath ri  Class 11
Cyhalothrin              Class 11
Class 11
Class 11
Beautiful  Oriental moth (Cnidocampa  Phosmet'                Class 11
sweetgu   flavescens),                Deltamethrin            Class il
m                                     ''~~'''~~'"'''          Class 11
34



Tent caterpillar (Malacosoma  Fenvalerate
neustria testacea)         Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana'
Black     Botryosphaeria canker      Thiophanate-methyl,     Class
locust   (Botryosphaeria ribis)                              U
Carbendazim,            Class
Mancozeb,               U
Bordeaux mixture        Class
Lime-Sulphur            U
Oriental moth (Cnidocampa  Deltamethrin,           Class 11
flavescens),               Fenvalerate             Class 11
Geometrid;                 Fenitrothion,           Class 11
Crytothelea varie gata;   Cypermethrin             Class
Malathion,              1l1
Maoso     Sterostram corticioides;  I Carbendazim            Class
bamboo    Balansia take            I Thiophanate-methyl,     U
Class
Vstilagosh iraiana         Triadimefon             U
Bordeaux mixture,       Class
Ceracris kiangsu;          Trichlorphon            Class
Algedonia coclesalis;      Phosmet                 Ill
Pantana sinica;            Fenitrothion,           Class 11
Cyrtorachelus buqueti;     Fenpropathri            Class 11
Cyhalothrin (active     Class 11
ingredient concentration in  Class 11
excess of 70%)
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana_
Rubber    Canker                     Zineb,                  Class
tree      Powdery mildew             Tuzet                   Class 11
Anthracnos,                Carbendazim             Class
Chorothalonil           U
Triadimefon             Class
Lime-Sulphur            U
Bordeaux mixture        Class
35



Bark beetles                Deltamethrin            Class 11
Fenvalerate             Class 11
Fenitrothion            Class 11
Malathion               Class
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana-
Camellia  Sterostram corticioides    Chorothalonil            Class
sinensis                              Triad imefon            U
Kuntze                                                        Class
Kerosene ,ll
Ceracris kiangsu.           Trichlorphon            Class
Algedonia coclesalis;       Fenitrothion,           Class II
Pantana sinica;             Fenpropathri            Class 11
Loudont dispar,            Cyhalothrin (active      Class 11
ingredient concentration in  Class 11
excess of 70%)
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana-
Walnut    Walnut bacterial blight;    Thiophanate-methyl,     Class U
Walnut melanconis disease   ZinebClass U
Walnut cytcospora canker;   Lime-Sulphur,
Walnut anthracnose          Bordeaux mixture
walnut sun moth(Attrijuglans  Prothiofos;           Class 11
Chestnut  hetaohei),                  Phosmet;                Class 11
White-striped longicorn     Deltameth rin.          Class 11
(Batoccera horsfield,);     Fenvalerate              Class 11
Giant mealybug (Drosicha    Dimethoate              Class 11
corpulenta)                 MTMC
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana'
Petroleum oil
Chestnut gall wasp          Dimethoate,             Class il
(Dryocosmus kuriphilus)P                            Class 11
Large chestnut aphid (Lachnus  Phosmetn             Class II
tropicalis);                Trichlorphon;           Class 11
Peach pyralid moth (Dichocrocis Deltamethrin,       Class ii
punctiferalis);             Fenvalerate              Class 11
Paratetranychus sp.;        MTMC                    Class 11l
Chestnut clearwing moth     Flurenoxuron-           Class II
(Aegeria molybdoceps)       Pirimicarb              Class 11l
I Matrine'               Clas_II
36



Apricot   Apricot pox                Lime-Sulphur
Bordeaux mixture
Apricot boring wasp (Eurytoma  Phoxim               Class 11
Gingko    samsonov,)D                                         Class 11
Plum fruit moth (Grapholitha  Deltamerin,           Class 11
Fenvalerate,.            Class 11
funebrana)..                MTMC
Peach longicorn beetle (Aromla Muscarding Beauveria
bungil),                    bassiana-'
White peach scale           Petroleum oil
(Pseudaulacaspis pentagona)
Macrophomina phaseoli     Bordeaux mixture,.
Thiophanate-methyl      Class U
(Dictyoploca japonica),     Deltamethrin,           Class il
date      (Clania varieguta),         Diflubenzuron'          Class Ill
date                       ~~~~~~~~Flurenoxuron)ClsII
Tea brown chafer
Triadimefon,            Class 1l
Jujube witche's broom(MLO);
Jujube rust                 Lime-Sulphur,
Bordeaux mixture
Hcl-Tetracycline
Peach fruit borer (Carposina  Fenitrothion,         Class 11
niponensis),                Phoxim                  Class 11
Bud-eating weevil (Scythropus  Phoxm,               Class 11
Pear  yasurnatsui).        ~~~Phosmet,.              Class 11
Pear  yasumatsul),  ~Fenvalerate                     Class 11
Tortoise wax scale (Ceroplastes Deltamethrin,       Class 1I
aponi cus);                Dlaehi,Cas1
Jujube midge (Contarinia sp.)  Cypermethrin.       Class Ill
Fenvalerate,            Class 11
Bacillus thuringiensis-,
Chlorpyrifos
Pear scab;                 Thiophanate-methyl,      Class U
Pear perennial canker;                              Class 11
Pear rust;                 Tuzet,                   Class U
Pear tree dieback;         Carbendazim              Class U
Pear brown spot                                     Class Ill
Imibenconazole,         Class Ill
Polyoxin'
Diniconazole,
Lime-Sulphur
37



Peach fruit borer (Carposina  Phosmet,              Class 11
Whinghac- niponensis) ;                                       Class I1
kberry    Oriental fruit moth (GrapholithaFenitrothion,       Class IlI
molesta);                   Trichlorphon,           Class 11
Yellow-brown stinkbug       Phoxim,                 Class 11
(Halyomorpha picus);                                Class 11
Pear fruit sawfly (Hoplocampa  Deltamethrin,        Class 11l
pyricola); Pear jumping plant lice Fenvalerate,     Class 11
(Psylla pyri); Pear curcuclio                       Class U
(Rhynchites foveipennis)    Malathion,
ethofenprox
I midacloprid-
Diflubenzuron'
Leaf spot disease           Carbendazim,            Class U
Lime-Sulphur,
Bordeaux mixture
Chinese   Gummosis,                   Tuzet,                  Class U1
pricklyash                                                    Class U
Carbendazim,             Class Ill
Rust,                       Triadimefon,
Twig blight,                Lime-Sulphur,
Bordeaux mixture
Aphids                      Dimethoate,             Class 1I
Eucommia                              Deltamethrin            Class 1I
Pirimicarb
Cercospora leaf spot;       Bordeaux mixture,
Brown spot                  CarbendazimTuzet        Class U
Tussock moth,               Phoxim,                 Class 11
Tea       Eucommia mengni armyworm    Deltamethrin            Class 11
Fenvalerate             Class 11
Bacillus thuringiensis-  Class Il
Anthracnos (Glomerella      Carbendazim,            Class U
cingulata),                                         Class U
White star disease          Chorothalonil,          Class U
Tea pan cake disease        Thiophanate-methyl,     Class U1
Tuzet                    Class U
Mancozeb
38



Geometrid (Buzura           Phoxim,                  Class i1
peach     suppressaria; Biston        Malathion                Class Ill
marginata),                 Trichlorphon             Class Ill
Tussock moth (Euproctis     ethofenprox              Class U
pseudocnspersa)             Diflubenzuron-           Class iU
Imidacloprid'            Class U
Chlorfluazuron',        Class Ill
Tebufenozide'
Peach tree leaf curl;       Thiophanate-methyl,      Class U
Peach bacterial shot hole;                           Class 11
Peach cercospora shot hole;  Tuzet,
Peach clasterosporium shot  Lime-Sulphur,
hole,                       Bordeaux mixture
Peach fruit borer (Carposina  Malathion.             Class Ill
niponensis); Peach pyralid moth                      Class 11
(Dichocrocis punctiferalis); Plum Fenitrothion.      Class 11
Pomegran fruit moth (Grapholitha      Deltamethrin,            Class Ill
ate       funebrana); Green peach aphid                        Class 11
(Myzus persicae); Apple tree  Bacillus thuringiensis ,  Class U
borer (Conopia hector); White  MTMC
peach scale (Pseudaulacaspis  Diflubenzuron-
pentagona)                  Lime-Sulphur
Petroleum oil
Muscarding Beauveria
bassianaF
Pomegranate tree dieback    Carbendazim,             Class U
(Zythia versoniana);                                 Class U
Brown spot(Cercospora       Zineb,                   Class 11
punicae),                   Asomate
Lime-Sulphur
Peach pyralid moth (Dichocrocis Malathion.           Class Ill
Rubber    punctiferalis); Peach fruit borer                    Class 11
tree      (Carposina niponensis); Tortoise Fenitrothion.       Class 11
wax scale (Ceroplastes      Deltamethrin             Class Ill
aponicus); (Eriococcus)lageros                      Class 11
troemiae                     Bacillus thuringiensis .  Class U
MTMC
Diflubenzuron-
Lime-Sulphur
Petroleum oil
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana'
39



Powdery mildew,             Zineb,                  Class U
Class 11
Anthracnose,                Tuzet,                  Class Ill
Canker                      Triadimefon             Class U
Imibenconazole,         Class Ill
Polyoxin'
Lime-Sulphur,
Bordeaux mixture
Bark beetle                 Phoxim,                 Class 11
Apple                                 Deltamethrin            Class 11
Fenvalerate,             Class Ill
Malathion                Class 11
MTMC
Apple alternaria leaf spot  Zineb,                  Class U
Apple of canker (Valsa mail)  Tuzet                 Class 11
Apple alternaria leaf spot  Asomate;                Class 11
Apple                As~~~~lpomiote;         Class U
Apple tree of dieback;,     Iprodione;              Class Ill
Triadimefon              Class Ill
Apple heart rot ;           Diniconazole,
Apple rust                  Bordeaux mixture,
Lime-Sulphur,
Apple leaf curing aphid (Myzus  Fenitrothion,       Class 11
Chinese   malisuctus); Green peach aphid                      Class Ill
yew       (Myzus persicae); Smaller apple Trichlorphon,       Class It
leaf roller (Adoxophyes orana); Imidacloprid*,      Class 11
Peach fruit borer (Carposina                        Class 11
niponensis); European red mite Deltamethrin,        Class 11
(Panonychus ulmi);Hawthorn  Fenvalerate, Dimethoate  Class lI
spider mite (Tetranychus    Pirimicarb              Class 11
viennensis)                 Permethrin               Class Ill
ethofenprox              Class U
* Diflubenzuron-
Lime-Sulphur,
Spot disease                Zineb,                  Class U
Tuzet                    Class 11
Bordeaux mixture,
40



Borer moth                  Malathion,               Class IIl
%           ~~~~~Class 11
Fenvalerate              Class 11
Fenitrothion             Cas1
Tea-oil tree                          Trichlorphon             Class Ill
Anthracnose,                Carbendazim.             Class U
Meliola camelliae           Chorothalonil.           Class U
Thiophanate-methyl;      Class II
Tuzet
Geometrid (Buzura           Deltamethrin,            Class 11
suppressaria; Biston                                 Class Ill
marginata),                 Trichlorphon,            Class Ill
Lcerynapurchasi             Malathion;               Class 11
Citrus    Lcerya purchasi             Fenitrothion             Class 11
MTMC
Citrus scab,                Thiophanate-methyl;      Class U
Tuzet                    Class 11
Citrus canker,              Lime-Sulphur;
Citrus phoma rot            Bordeaux mixture
Citrus rust mite (Phyllocoptruta  Fenitrothion,      Class 11
Hickory nut oleivora);                                         Class 11
Broad mite                  Deltamethrin,            Class Ill
(Polyphagotarsonemus latus);  Trichlorphon,          Class Ill
Citrus red mite (Panonychus                          Class 11
citri); Cottony cushion scale  Malathion.            Class 11
(Icerya purchasi); Arrowhead  Fenvalerate            Class 11
scale (Unaspis yanonensis);  MTMC                    Class U
Mulberry white-spotted longicorn Esfenvalerate       Class Ill
(Anoplophora chinensis);    Chlorfluazuron-,
Zadezhdilla cantori                   .
Tebufenozid e
Muscarding Beauveria
bassiana-;
Lime-Sulphur
Canker,                     Thiophanate-methyl       Class U
Walnut melanconis disease   Tuzet                    Class 11
Lime-Sulphur,
Bordeaux mixture
White-striped longicorn     Deltamethrin             Class 11
Willow    (Batoccera horsfieldi)      Trichlorphon             Class Ill
Black velvety chafer (Serica  Fenitrothion           Class 11
orientalis) ; Proagopertha  Imidacloprid-            Class 11
lucidula                    Fenvalerate.             Class 11
MTMC
41



Notes: (1) Pesticides marked with " *' are bio-pesticides
(2) Beside pesticide included in Table3, other pesticide may be applied in project
sites if new pests appear which pesticides included in Table3 may not be
available to control
2.3 Organization and Management
(i)  Institutional Arrangements
PMC at national level, and PMO at province and county levels will be responsible for
implementing the PMP. Implementation responsibilities include supervising the project
units in following IPM methods, arranging training for forestry bureau staff at each level
and participating farmers, and monitoring training and the application of IPM methods.
PMC, in consultation with World Bank, will approve the Approved Pesticide List and
project funds will be used to buy only those pesticides included on the List. PMO at
each level will maintain records in sufficient detail to enable procurement to be
monitored.
Provincial PMO will amend the Approved Pesticide List to include the product names of
pesticides sold within the province. This list will provide the basis to prepare pesticide
management training programs by the PMOs at different levels for county and township
technicians and farmers. Provincial PMO will monitor training and application of IPM
methods by project county PMOs.
Project county PMOs will be responsible for implementation of training programs for
forestry staff (county and township) and farmers, and for field monitoring of application of
IPM methods.
The general IPM principles and methods and tree crop specific recommendations for all
project tree crops contained in this document by PMC, will be refined by provincial
PMOs to ensure recommendations are relevant for conditions prevailing each project
province and presented in a manner suitable for use in training courses for lower level
technicians and farmers.
(ii) Pesticide management
PMC will establish a policy for pesticide examination and approval for project purchases.
Procurement of pesticides will be carried out by provincial PMOs according to the project
policy.
Each afforestation entity should, in accordance with the propose according to pest
prediction, the names, dosages and quantity of pesticides required and report to county
PMOs,. County PMOs will report thereafter to provincial PMOs, who together with PMC
will consolidate project requirements for bulk purchase and arrange purchase according
to project guidelines.
Technical staff will be assigned to escort pesticide transportation to ensure that the
pesticides are be delivered safely to destinations, and in timely manner. In the event that
pesticide containers are accidentally damaged, effective remedies must be adopted to
42



prevent environmental pollution. Transportation and delivery records will be maintained
by the county PMO
Forestry bureaus in project counties will maintain storage facilities for project pesticides
according to regulations. Project units and retail stores serving afforestation entities will
also maintain approved storage facilities.
Technical staff of the county forestry bureau and township t forestry stations will
diagnose pests and diseases and advise growers on the application of IPM methods and
use of approved pesticides. These technical staff will in turn consult relevant provincial
level experts or institutions as required. These agencies include: staff of the provincial
Forest Pest and Disease Control Station, Department of Plant Protection at the relevant
Agricultural University or Forestry University; or the appropriate Institute/experts of
Economic Crops, Forestry or Plant Protection.
(iii) Safe usage of pesticides
The following steps are proposed:
(1 ) Growers will be advised on the basis of pest forecast reports from county
monitoring stations  to apply pesticide scientifically through specific training
programs prepared according to the tree species for each planting plot.
(2) Growers requiring larger quantities of pesticides will submit procurement plan to
the county PMO; for smaller quantities farmers will purchase from the township
pesticide shop which will be supplied with approved chemicals by the county
PMO.
(3) To ensure control efficiency, different spraying methods should be applied
according to the biology of different pests, injury areas and damage position on
the trees. Staff of the county Forestry Pest & Disease Control Station will
recommend appropriate pesticides and spraying routines for the tree and
economic crop species infected by pests;
(4) Provincial PMO will ensure that relevant experts are consulted to formulate
appropriate location specific recommendations. The experts may include staff of
the national or provincial Pest and Disease Control Station, Department of Plant
Protection at provincial Agricultural or Forestry Universities or the national or
provincial Institute of Economical Crop, Institute of Forestry or Institute of Plant
Protection;
(5) Regular pesticide rotation will be considered to reduce pest resistance to
pesticides and decrease plant injury cause by pesticides. Provincial PMO will
ensure that relevant experts are consulted to make appropriate recommendations.
These recommendations will be incorporated into training programs, technical
recommendations for each site and the pesticide procurement program;
(6 ) Farmers or afforestation entities  in every project site will undergo project
sponsored training concerning pesticide safety use and the appropriate means of
pesticide application;
(7) Training programs will stress the importance of protective clothing when they
apply pesticides. This will include suitable work clothes, protective cap, mask,
gloves and shoes. Surplus pesticides should be properly stored or safely disposed
of;
43



(8) Training programs will also emphasize the need to strictly follow pesticide
application procedure and avoid polluting residential areas, water resources and
grazing lands;
(9 ) Surplus pesticides of each afforestation entity will be returned to designated
storehouses. Empty pesticide containers will also be returned to designated
storehouses for reuse or disposal (by deep burying) according to relevant laws
and regulations;
(10)     County PMOs and township technical staff will emphases the important of
effective procedures for pesticide management.
(iv) Pesticide purchase
The afforestation entities will report to county PMOs, according to pest prediction, the
names, dosages and quantity of pesticides required. County PMOs will report county
requirements to provincial PMOs, who together with PMC will consolidate project
requirements for bulk purchase and arrange purchase according to project guidelines.
Purchase of pesticides should follow the regulation of "management method for project
material and facilities purchase" applicable for World Bank projects. Provincial PMOs will
organize the purchase. PMC will establish a policy for pesticide examination and
approval for project purchases to ensure that project funds are used only for purchases
of pesticides on the Approved Pesticide List.
2.4 Training
The project will arrange training of county and township technical staff and participating
farmers in methods relevant to the particular species being planted at each site. The
training will be based on the IPM methods and safe use of pesticides recommended for
each tree crop species in each project province.
PMC will revise these general project guidelines for IPM and safe use of pesticides
according to the provincial specifics and the project implemetnaion situation. Provincial
PMOs based on this manaagemetn plan, will arrange for preparation of training
materials and training programs based on the general project guidelines for provincial
level training programs for PMO and key technical staff from provincial and county level.
Provincial PMOs will also arrange for training materials and training programs to be
prepared for county level training of township technicians. Counties will be responsible
for preparation of training materials for use in farmer training and demonstrations.
(i)  Content of training
Law and regulation training: Training courses will include relevant information from
"Forestry Law", "Environment Protection Law", "Regulation of Forest Pest Control" and
"Integrated Pest Management", and requirements of the professional policy of World
Bank (4.09). The level of detail will be adjusted according to the target audience.
Technical knowledge training: Pest identification, life cycles, biology of pests,
techniques of control, basic knowledge of pesticides, pesticide management and safe
application will be included in the training courses. The level of detail will be adjusted
according to the target audience.
44



Field practice: Field demonstration to farmers for properly and safely pesticide
application.
(ii) Training method
In general training will be organized as follows:
*   Provincial PMOs will be responsible for the provincial level training courses or the
conduciotn of the ; or the provincial Institutes of Economic Crops, Forestry or Plant
Protection. Provincial level training will be supervised by staff from PMC.
*   Training courses at county level for township and county technical staff will be
provided by staff from county or provincial Forestry bureau (mainly from the Forestry
Pest and Disease Control station).
*   Farmers and forestry farm staff will be trained on-site by township level technicians
using basic educational materials and practical demonstration. Training courses for
farmers and field technicians will be run mostly in orchards or fields.
The PMOs of province and county levels should plan and arrange the yearly training
courses according to the IPM requirements and the problems existing in the project
sites. The training arrangement at each level should provide records to PMO at the next
highest level for monitoring purposes.
(iii) Training Plan and budget
An overall training plan and budget for the duration of the project will be prepared for
each province showing: number of training courses by year for each type of tree crop,
number of participants, location of training, details of the training program and training
materials. A detailed training plan will be approved in advance for each year by PMC.
The budget will show costs for preparation of training materials and unit costs for training
(per person per day). Payments for training activities will be based on (i) production of
training materials and (ii) monitorable evidence of training courses held (records of
participants, trainers and duration).
The following indicative budget will be revised based the overall training plan and
detailed annual budget to be prepared by provincial PMOs.
45



Table 4: Indicative training budget
Content of training        Number of     Number of Estimated
training    participants   Cost
course                    (RMB
'0,000)
Total                   558          8495       218.7
1, National level                     1            30          5.4
(1) Pesticide safe use and            1            30          5.4
management
(2) Techniques of forest and fruit
pest control (not chemical method)
2. Province level                     22           440         52.8
( 1 ) Pest control and pesticide     11           220        26.4
safe use
( 2 ) Techniques of forest and fruit  11          220        26.4
pest control (not chemical method)
3. county level                      535          8025        160.5
( 1 ) once training course (on pest  535         8025        160.5
control and pesticide safe use) a
year in each project site
Note: an overall training plan and detailed annual training plan and budget will be
prepared by each provincial PMO.
2.5 Monitoring
Monitoring is required for the following elements of the PMP:
*  Development of training materials and programs for IPM and safe pesticide use;
*  Training project staff at county and township level and project farmers in IPM
methods and safe methods of use of pesticides;
*  Effective monitoring and prediction of pests and diseases for project plantation
species;
* Screening, purchase, distribution to project sites, and use of only approved
pesticides
Preparation of training materials for provincial and county level and farmer training by
provincial PMOs will be monitored by PMC.
Implementation of provincial and county training programs will be monitored by PMC,
and implementation of township and farmer training by provincial PMO on the basis of
training reports prepared by county PMOs..
46



Effective prediction of pest and disease incidence, provision of regular guidance to field
staff and response to pest and disease outbreaks by Pest and Disease Control stations
should be monitored by the next higher technical level of the responsible agency, and
also by PMOs to ensure project farmers receive an adequate level of service.
Screening and purchase of approved pesticides should be monitored by PMC on the
basis of procurement reports. Distribution and use of pesticides should be monitored by
provincial and county PMOs on the basis of information provided by the Pest and
Disease Control stations at the respective levels. Appropriate storage and handling of
project agro-chemicals should also be monitored by the Pest and Disease Control
stations at the respective levels.
47



China: Sustainable Forestry Development Project
Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition
10 April 2001
48



A. Introduction
1.   The proposed Sustainable Forestry Development Project promotes innovative
approaches to improve management of forest resources and to protect the natural
environment. A key aspect in project design is provision of incentives so as to enlist the
voluntary participation in resource management. Neither project agencies nor other
governmental units are expected to undertake civil works or otherwise identify or
undertake activities requiring taking of land. Accordingly, neither land acquisition nor
involuntary relocation is expected to occur in any of the three project components:
The Protected Area Management component supports conservation and improved
forest management. Because this component involves existing forest reserve
areas, land acquisition will not occur. Effective management, however, may
require additional restrictions on forest use. The project views community co-
management of forest reserves as essential to sustainable management. This
means that communities now relying on access to forest resources will participate
in allocation of resource use and in design of remedial measures for lost resource
access, if any. (Potential impacts resulting from restriction of access to nature
reserves are covered in a separate "Process Framework.")
The Plantation Establishment component promotes increased production of wood
to meet growing consumer demand and to provide sources of employment and
income for persons already affected by logging bans and other restrictions on use.
Participants receive various forms of support to develop wood or tree-crop
production. Most recipients are likely to be individual or collective plantation
owners, selected from among voluntary applicants meeting specified eligibility
criteria. This may involve voluntary conversion of participants' existing land to
plantation purposes, but no involuntary land acquisition or other resettlement-
related issues are likely to arise. It is possible that township governments may be
among recipients, but eligibility criteria require that any government recipients
utilize existing government land for eligible activities, or obtain additional land
through voluntary negotiations with present land owners or users.
The Natural Forest Management component supports development and testing of
new management techniques of potential use in the government's Natural Forest
Protection Program. Among various activities in this component, the European
Union would provide small grants or credits in rural villages already affected by
logging ban. Villages meeting counterpart funding requirements would be eligible
for small village improvement grants. These small-scale activities would be
identified through community planning processes. Some may involve physical
improvements (e.g., road widening or construction of sheds or other facilities),
but it expected that all such improvements would be sited within the village itself.
Because land is collectively owned within villages, there is very little likelihood
of land acquisition or resettlement-related impacts. Use of unallocated collective
land for community improvements identified by the community itself is not
considered land acquisition. Use of land allotted to individual households on a
49



lease basis by the collective would be covered by this framework unless obtained
through voluntary negotiations with the leaseholder.
2.   As part of project agreements, the Borrower will attest that no activities requiring
involuntary taking of land will be undertaken in this project without prior acceptance by
the Bank of appropriate planning remedies. The European Union, as the source of grant
support, also will attest that it will not provide support for any activities requiring
involuntary taking of land, or activities imposed by govemment agencies on villages
receiving grant support.
3.   At the time of project preparation and appraisal, no land acquisition or other
resettlement-related impacts could be identified. However, since the siting of small-scale
infrastructure that may be undertaken in the plantation establishment and the natural
forest management components is not yet knowNm, resettlement-related impacts cannot be
ruled out completely. This policy framework has been prepared for the purpose of
establishing principles and procedures to be applied in the event that involuntary loss of
land or other fixed assets would arise as a result of project implementation. The policy
framework has been developed based on World Bank Operational Directive 4.30 on
involuntary resettlement and relevant Chinese laws and regulations, and will form the
basis for resettlement planning.
B. General Principles
4.     Basic principles guiding any necessary actions related to involuntary loss of land or other
assets are as follows:
(a)  Taking of land or other assets, as well as other resettlement-related impacts, should
be avoided or minimized;
(b)  Project activities causing any such losses will not be approved for financing until
remedial measures have been prepared and found by the Bank to be consistent with this
framework;
(c)  As relevant, remedial measures should provide project-affected persons with: (i)
compensation for land or other lost assets at full replacement cost without depreciation,
(ii) compensation for damaged crops at full market value, (iii) provision of an alternative
house plot (as necessary); and/or (iv) land redistribution, altemative employment or other
measures necessary to improve, or at least restore, incomes following loss of land or
other productive assets;
(d)  Absence of legal title to, or formal ownership of, affected assets is not a barrier to
compensation or other forms of assistance;
(e)  Adequate supervision and monitoring should be in place to identify any issues
associated with involuntary losses in a timely manner;
(f)  Institutional responsibilities to implement the rehabilitation measures need to be
clearly delineated.
50



(g)  For the purposes of this framework, "affected persons" are defined as persons who,
as a result of works carried out or to be carried out under the Project, would incur
involuntary loss, temporarily or permanently, of land, shelter, productive assets or access
to productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood and, as a consequence, have
their living standards or production levels adversely affected.
(h)  No grant assistance will be provided for any activities requiring involuntary
relocation of residence.
C. Identification of Impacts and Planning Procedures
5.   As stated above, project design emphasizes voluntary participation, including
selection of activities by villagers themselves. If involuntary taking of land or other assets
(including involuntary taking by collectives of land leased to collective members) arises
during project implementation, remedial plans are to be prepared in keeping with the
general principles listed above. As regarding compensation for lost assets, and conversion
of agricultural land for other purposes, remedial plans also will be consistent with the
Law of the PRC on Land Management (1999), the Implementation Regulations of the
Law of the PRC on Land Management, and related provincial lawvs and regulations.
6.    Given the nature of the proposed project components, any activity that may cause
taking of land or other assets is likely to affect relatively few people (e.g., less than 200
people), and impacts are likely to be relatively minor (e.g., not requiring changes in
occupation or relocation of residence). Under such circumstances, a relatively brief
remedial plan can be prepared. Even under these circumstances, however, the remedial
plan should briefly review: (i)description of the project activity necessitating land
acquisition; (ii) basic legal or regulatory provisions regarding land acquisition and
compensation; (iii) basic data enumerating and identifying impacts and the persons to be
affected by them; (iv) compensation rates; (v) timetable; (vi) organizational and financial
arrangements; and (vii) consultative arrangements (including grievance procedures).
7.    In the unlikely event that any project activity is to affect more than 200 persons,
more detailed presentation of planning elements is required. In the event that any project
activity would result in the necessity for arrangements to promote the economic
rehabilitation of any affected persons, detailed review of arrangements (e.g., land
redistribution, provision of employment, or other alternative measures to restore incomes)
must be provided prior to Bank acceptance.
D. Management Organizations and Responsibilities
8.    At the time that the necessity of land acquisition (or taking of other assets) is
recognized, the provincial Project Management Office should assign responsibility for
consultations with project-affected persons, preparation of remedial plans, and
resettlement implementation. Specific responsibilities to be assigned include, at a
minimum:
51



(a) identification of impacts and project-affected persons;
(b) establishment of remedial measures consistent with the general principles stated
above;
(c) consultations with project-affected persons. and dissemination of relevant information
to them in a timely manner;
(d) prior consultations with the Bank (or other donor agencies, as relevant) in selection of
activities necessitating land acquisition or resettlement, and in formulation of remedial
plans;
(e) coordination with any local government umnts sharing responsibility for any aspects of
resettlement preparation or implementation;
(f) timely payment of compensation, and provision for delivery of any other forms of
assistance;
(g) monitoring of effectiveness of resettlement implementation;
(h) responding to grievances presented by project-affected persons.
E. Consultation and Grievance Procedures
9.     The taking of land or other assets, and the preparation of remedial plans require
consultation with project-affected persons. Prior to taking of land or other assets, the
responsible governmental unit will visit affected villages or households to discuss the
location and quantity of assets to be acquired, and compensation rates and any other
rehabilitation measures to be provided. Following consultations, any remedial plans will
be disseminated to the project-affected persons in a manner accessible to them.
Information disseminated to the project-affected persons will include: (i) compensation
rates for all categories of affected assets; (ii) eligibility criteria for all other forms of
assistance that may be provided; and (iii) grievance procedures (including specific
contact infornation for initiating, or following up on, grievances).
10.  If project-affected persons are not satisfied with proposed resettlement
arrangements, or if they are dissatisfied with actual resettlement implementation, they can
first seek satisfaction through village councils (or other local leaders). If this does not
result in resolution of issues, project-affected persons can also make grievance verbally
or in written form to authorities as specified in the remedial plan. Specified authorities
should record receipt of grievances and reply to the project-affected person or persons
within ten days after receiving the grievances. If the grievances or disputes cannot be
resolved through administrative action, the project-affected person can initiate legal
proceedings, in accordance with provincial and national law.
52



China: Sustainable Forestry Development Project
Process Framework for Mitigating Potential Adverse
Livelihood Impacts
10 April 2001
53



1.      Project Description. The Sustainable Forest Development Project (SFDP) proposes
the development and implementation of innovative management approaches in selected natural
forests, nature reserves and forest plantations to relieve pressures on China's remaining natural
forest resources, as well as to protect selected important forest ecosystems and associated
biodiversity. The SFDP has three components: (a) Natural Forest Management (NFM); (b)
Protected Areas Management (PAM); and (c) Plantation Establishment (PE).
2.     PAM Component Description. The SFDP's PAM Component would support more
effective in situ protection of threatened and globally important forest ecosystems and habitats,
and associated rare and endemic species in selected Nature Reserves (NR) in China. China's NRs
face increasing pressure from the human communities inside or in close proximity to them.
These local communities, many of which are impoverished, are typically forest-dependent in that
they derive substantial portions of their income from the use of non-timber forest products
(NTFPs), rely on firewood as a major energy source (annual fuelwood consumption can be as
high as 10 tons/household in the Western Sichuan mountains), and use forest areas for other
subsistence and economic activities such as farming staple grains, grazing livestock, and
medicinal herb production. In some areas these activities increasingly exceed sustainable levels,
undermining already meager livelihoods. Moreover, coupled with widespread wildlife hunting
and illegal extraction of timber products, excessive levels of forest-resource use adversely affect
the biological integrity and sustainability of the NRs.
3.     The significant forest dependence of the local communities presents a three-fold
challenge to protecting the China's NRs from overuse and other threats. The first facet of the
challenge is how to engage local people in NR management, during the project and over the long-
term. The second is what are appropriate encouragement and incentives for local people to use
nature reserve resources sustainably. And, the third is what types of altematives could be
developed to forest-resource-dependent activities which would both support more sustainable
livelihoods and maintain the integrity of the nature reserves. The PAM component takes a multi-
pronged approach to addressing these challenges through three sub-components and key
activities: (a) Nature Reserves Planning and Management including (i) revision of initial
management plans, (ii) preparation of ecological baseline maps, (iii) implementation of wildlife
damage control demonstration, (iv) strengthen field management, research, and monitoring, and
(v) improvement of reserve infrastructure; (b) Community-Based Nature Conservation including
(i) preparation and implementation of co-management demonstration activities, (ii) community
conservation education/public awareness, (iii) energy conservation demonstrations, and (iv)
technical extension and community training on sustainable livelihood activities; (c) Training and
Capacity Building with emphasis on provincial and nature reserve levels; and (d) Monitoring and
Evaluation.
4.   Policy Trigger. This Process Framework will be implemented in accordance with World
Bank policy on involuntary resettlement. It covers restrictions of access to legally designated
parks and protected areas which result in adverse impacts on livelihoods of the affected persons.
Good practice has demonstrated that the objectives of the policy can be better achieved through a
participatory process and rehabilitation interventions along the lines outlined in this Process
Framework.   To determine the appropriate coverage of the Process Framework, a review was
undertaken of the PAM component design and the results of the Social Assessment (SA) to
confirm if any involuntary restrictions of resource access are anticipated, as well as to evaluate
the potential impacts on peoples' livelihoods of any restriction of access likely to be imposed as a
result of the PAM component.
5.    In general logging, grazing, hunting, fishing, herbal plant collection, mining, burning of
grasses or other vegetation, and farming of crops are all forbidden by law within NRs in China,
54



with some exceptions for limited subsistence uses. China's NRs are typically sub-divided in to a
core zone, where no use for any purpose other than approved research is allowed, and an
experimental zone, where subsistence and income generating uses are allowed on a limited level
as long as the uses do not conflict with the operation of the nature reserve. The imposition of
China's "logging ban" in 1998, effectively extended the prohibition of logging, collection of
forest products and other extractive uses of forest resources to all natural forests.
6.   In order to enhance the management systems of NRs, the PAM component would support,
inter alia, development and implementation of management plans for selected NR, which would
focus on key management activities to enhance conservation, such as habitat restoration,
increased monitoring and working with forest-dependent households and communities to develop
and implement regulations and other measures to ensure sustainable utilization of natural
resources. The PAM component design would not require involuntary physical displacement or
relocation of people. Furthermore, to the extent feasible, the NR management plans would avoid
including new restrictions or stricter enforcement of current restrictions of use of NR resources by
local communities which would adversely affect their livelihoods, beyond those needed to ensure
the sustainability of the NRs.
7.   Nonetheless, new or increased restrictions of access to natural resources in the NRs, such
as changes in zoning between experimental and core zone, or introduction of a new, buffer zone
with increased restrictions from the experimental zone, may be needed to ensure sustainability of
the NRs. In some cases, changes in zoning may adversely impact livelihoods. In other cases,
zoning changes may actually increase opportunities for communities, as in the case of some of the
NR in Hunan Province, where re-zoning of the core zone may actually open up more collective
forests for sustainable use of fuelwood and selective collection of NTFPs. However, increased
restriction of access cannot be ruled out until the management plans for the NR are developed
during implementation, at which time the nature of any proposed restrictions, as well as the type
of measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts of those restrictions, would be determined in
consultation with the project-affected groups.
8.   Process Framework. This Process Framework outlines the criteria and procedures which
will be followed as part of the project, in cases where project-induced involuntary restriction of
access to NR resources results in adverse livelihood impacts, to ensure that eligible, affected
persons are assisted in their efforts to restore or improve their livelihoods in a manner which
maintains the environmental sustainability of the nature reserve in question. More specifically, it
describes the participatory process by which: (a) specific components of the project were
prepared and will be implemented; (b) the criteria for eligibility of affected persons will be
determined; (c) measures to assist the affected persons in their efforts to improve or restore, in
real terms, to pre-displacement levels, their livelihoods (e.g., as appropriate, altemative grazing
areas, cultivation of unique non-timber forest products such as mushrooms, or other crops, or
investments in community infrastructure) while maintaining the sustainability of the park or
protected area will be identified; and (d) potential conflicts involving affected persons will be
resolved. It also provides a description of the arrangements for implementing and monitoring the
process.
9.   Process Followed During Preparation. A full SA process was conducted during component
preparation by provincial teams guided by provincial, national and international experts. A
representative sample of rural village households in selected "critical" communities in and
adjacent to the 13 nature reserves included under the project were interviewed. The objective of
the SA was to: (a) assess the existing social conditions; (b) determine the potential negative
impacts of the component project, if any; (c) serve as a vehicle for community consultations on
the component; and (d) inform the ongoing component design.
55



10.  The SA found that the likely overall impact of the proposed PAM component would be
positive since participation of local communities in preparation and management of nature
reserves would be increased, alternative methods for reducing crop damage from wildlife would
be introduced, awareness of potential nature reserve benefits on local economies would be
enhanced, and alternative livelihood and energy efficiency activities would be supported. The
results of the SA were used to refine the design of the PAM component, enhancing positive
impacts and mitigating likely adverse effects. Nonetheless, it is possible that some component
activities could inadvertently affect adversely the livelihoods of persons living in or adjacent to
the NRs.
11.  Preparation or revision of management plans (MPs) for the NRs would follow a
participatory approach, in which the roles of local communities in the management of NRs would
be strengthened, and appropriate measures would be identified with local communities to enhance
the sustainability of NR resource-based livelihood activities and manage pressures on the NRs.
In addition, a community-based nature conservation sub-component would assist the 13 NRs
participating in the project develop their community-based approach to conservation through
support to: (a) the establishment of county-level organizational structures, as well as
strengthening of village institutions, for the development and implementation of co-management
activities in the NRs; (b) decreasing the threats from overuse of forest resources for energy
through targeted demonstrations of appropriate, practical, and cost-effective energy conservation
approaches; and (c) providing training and technical assistance for the identification and
demonstration of altemative income generating techniques as alternatives to the use of critical
forest resources.
12.  Process to be Followed During Implementation. The process to be followed during project
implementation would consist of the following seven key steps: (a) conduct participatory rural
assessment (PRA) surveys to determine community use of natural resources and critical threats,
conflicts and community issues; (b) establish and train leading groups; (c) select co-management
demonstration sites; (d) establish Management Forum in communities; (e) prepare Community
Resource Management Plans; (f) establish and implement Communitv Conservation Fund; and
(g) monitor and evaluate implementation.
13.  Participatory Rural Assessments. Following-up on the SAs conducted during preparation,
additional work on social assessment through Participatory Rural Assessment (PRA) surveys
would lead off the implementation of the component. The PRAs would focus on developing a
more in-depth understand of: (a) the social and geographic setting of the communities in the
component areas, including their economic and social problems; (b) the types and extent of
community use of natural resources, and the existing dejure and defacto rules and institutions
for the use and management of natural resources; (c) the communities' threats to and impacts on
the NRs; (d) the potential livelihood impacts of new or more strictly enforced restrictions on use
of resources in the NRs; (e) communities' suggestions and/or view on possible mitigation
measures; and (f) potential conflicts over the use of natural resources, and methods for solving
potential conflicts. The results of the PRAs will be an input to the development or revision of the
MPs under the nature reserves planning and management sub-component, as well as to the
development of the Community Resource Management Plans (CRMPs) under the community
based conservation sub-component.
14. Leading Groups. Leading groups for each of the NRs, comprised of officials from local
county government, staff from the nature reserves, and representatives of the local communities
participating in the co-management activities will be formed under the component. The leading
groups will be charged with overseeing the co-management process, with key tasks and
56



responsibilities including: (a) preparing selection critenra for the co-management demonstration
sites; (b) coordinating technical advice, programs and cooperation among various local
government departments; (c) reviewing and approving CRMPs and community contracts; and (d)
resolving conflicts arising out of the co-management process.
15.  Determination of criteria for eligibility of affected persons, and identification of measures
to assist affected persons. Selection of the villages to participate in the Community-Based
Conservation sub-component would not be made until the first year of project implementation,
and would be based on the results of the participatory rural assessments (PRAs) as well as the
threats analysis, to identify the sources of the major threats to the nature reserves, conducted as
part of the nature reserve management planning process. Participating villages would be
identified based on their level of dependency on the forest resources inside the nature reserve, the
degree of threat that these uses pose to the NR, and the anticipated severity of adverse impact to
livelihoods from imposition of any proposed use restrictions. The results of the PRA and the
threats analysis will be used to ensure that the project provides benefits to eligible forest-
dependent household in the project areas adversely affected by the project, and to help define
project activities that will assist them in improving their livelihoods, both by enhancing and
improving the sustainability of the natural resource base and by identifying alternative sources of
income (e.g., skills training, small grants, technical extension, etc.).
16.  Based on the results of the PRA surveys and the threats analysis, the Leading Groups will
determine the eligibility of villages as well as confirm the eligibility of households in the eligible
villages, and select co-management sites in or around each of the NRs on the basis of severity of
impacts. Cnrtical communities (i.e., those which are dependent on the nature reserve, pose a threat
to the nature reserve, and would be adversely affected by proposed use restriction), as identified
in the management planning process, will get priority for project activities under the Community
Resource Management Plans (see paras 18 - 20). Other communities, either less impacted or
exerting less pressure on nature reserve natural resources, may not be able to participate. A
minimum of twenty-six villages (two per NR) will be selected to participate in co-management
activities, including alternative livelihood measures. For NRs in which project activities would
adversely affect the livelihoods of local people in more than two villages, the other villages would
be deemed eligible and would be included, and an increased level of local government
counterpart funding would be in place to cover the costs of the additional villages. Another 39
villages will be selected to participate in fuelwood management and/or technical training
activities. In addition, 7 villages will be supported in community-based wildlife management
demonstrations.
17.  Management Forum. A Management Forum (MF) for the co-management process would
be comprised of representatives are the various stakeholders groups, including the village
committee, village groups, special groups, and nature reserve staff. The exact composition of the
MF would be determined by the results of the PRA, which would clarify the traditional power
structures and their relationship to the official power structures. Where appropriate, the MF
would include religious and/or traditional leaders (e.g., monks, ethnic minority leaders). The MFs
would lead the preparation of Community Resource Management Plans (CRMPs) as well as
manage the Community Conservation Fund (CCF). In addition, the MF would approve
community conservation and development project supported by the CCF, enforce rules and
regulations of the CRMP, and adjudicate potential conflicts.
18.  Community Resource Management Plans and Community Conservation Funds. As an
incentive for local communities to participate in the development and implementation of the MPs
for the NRs, the Project will help the communities to prepare CRMPs, outlining the priority
management actions that communities would need to undertake, as well as meeting priority needs
57



of communities. Thus, the CRMPs would provide management programs, or plans and rules
agreed to by the community, the nature reserve and local government, that provide for more
sustainable use of critical community resources, such as firewood and wild medicinal plants. In
ethnic minority communities these plans would be culturally appropnate.
19.  The CRMPs would be developed by the village-level MF, a village stakeholder committee
built on the village committee, through participatorv mapping exercises and detailed consultations
with stakeholders. All people affected by MPs for the NRs would be given the opportunity to
participate in planning and implementation of CRMPs. The MFs wvould be provided technical
assistance to outline their respective natural resources management issues, and to develop a plan
for solving the most important conflict or threat facing the nature reserve and the community.
Each of the CRMPs would comprise a community-based NR resource use and protection
program, proposals for economic activities that reduce the overuse of critical NR resources or
provide altemative livelihoods for resources lost- and outline the organizational structure and
approach for managing the implementation of the CRMPs. As village capacity to develop and
manage projects is generally low, village leaders and other members of the MF would receive
project management training under the project.
20.  Eligible activities in the CRMPs would be financed through the Community Conservation
Funds (CCFs), with appropriate counterpart funding from local governments and beneficiaries.
Eligible activities for financial assistance include small-scale enterpnses, alternative livelihood
activities or small-scale conservation and rural development activities, such as installing energy
conserving technologies in village households.  The CRMPs will also contain negotiated
conservation agreements related to the MPs for the NRs, which will outline in detail the
conservation activities to be undertaken by the community as part of implementation of the
management plan. Funding for the CRMPs wvill be conditioned on commitment by the
community to undertake the agreed conservation measures, as well as on making counterpart
contributions and ensuring maintenance of investments, as appropnate.
21.  The SFDP would provide funds for the establishment of CCFs. Villages can use the CCF
to finance projects identified within the comrnunity that solve problems and/or take advantage of
opportunities identified in the CRMPs. The project would provide technical assistance and
training to MFs regarding the management of the CCFs.
22.  Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements.  Baseline information on socio-economic
conditions of the villages and household, in particular the potential livelihood impacts of new or
more strictly enforced restrictions on use of resources in the NRs, will be collected through the
PRAs conducted at the initial stage of implementation. These data wsill be used as the basis for
determining the eligibility of villages and households for assistance under the process framework,
as well as designing measures to assist the affected persons in their efforts to improve or restore
their livelihoods to comprise the CRMPs. Follow-up PRAs, conducted at the mid-term review
and the close of project, will update these data for the purpose of monitoring and evaluation of the
implementation and impacts of the CRMPs. The specific monitoring indicators will be outlined
in the Plan of Action. Possible indicators include: numbers of eligible villages and households;
the potential livelihood impacts to these villages and households of new or more strictly enforced
restrictions on use of resources in the NRs; livelihood benefits of measures to assist the affected
persons; numbers of villages and households participating in CCFs; and funds provided by CCFs
to eligible villages and households.
23.  Plan of Action. The CRMPs for each of the 13 NRs would together serve as the Plan of
Action required by the Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement to be developed and submitted
to the Bank during project implementation and prior to enforcement of new restrictions of access
58



to resources in the NR, describing the specific measures to assist persons to be adversely affected
by the proposed restrictions.
24.  Conflict Resolution Mechanism. The risk of conflicts arising between communities or
among NRs, villages and households during implementation of this process framework are real
and must be addressed. A two-fold mechanism, With both proactive and reactive elements for
resolution of conflicts, disputes and grievances that might arise, would be put in place
25.  Proactive Approach.  Recognizing that many conflicts arise due to difference in
understanding and perceptions, a proactive approach would be adopted to avoid conflicts before
they start. This approach would promote a common understanding through a four-pronged
approach, including: (a) wide-spread disclosure of project background information; (b)
clarification of the criteria of eligibility for assistance under the process framework, (c)
clarification of the duties and responsibilities of all stakeholders in the process, and in particular
the composition and roles of the leading groups and management forums; (d) community
conservation education and public awareness regarding values of the NRs, threats to the NRs, and
options for mitigating these threats.
26.  Reactive Approach. Conflict that do arise would be dealt with through the appropriate
leading groups and MFs. The MFs would adjudicate potential conflicts at the village level. If
resolution is not possible at the village level, the MF can seek advice from the county-level
Leading Group, who are charged with overseeing the co-management process.
59



60



