Page  1
July 15, 1999
Mr. Jin Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing
People’s Republic of China
Re:
Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
Block B Grant for Preparation of a proposed Natural Forest 
Biodiversity Protection Project
GEF-PPG TF022767
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF to indicate the 
Bank’s agreement to grant to People’s Republic of China (the Recipient) a Grant in an 
amount not exceeding three hundred fifty thousand United States Dollars ($350,000) 
(the Grant). 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
The award of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part 
of the Bank, either as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or the 
International Development Association, to assist in financing any project which will 
result from the activities financed by the Grant.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  
Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by 
you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Signed (in Chinese) 
Authorized Representative
Date: July 21, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
Page  2
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a 
proposed Natural Forest Biodiversity Protection Project (the Project).  The activities 
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
conduct of biophysical surveys to identify areas of high forest 
biodiversity;
(b)
conduct of socio-economic surveys to: (i) determine how much local 
communities use, and depend on, priority forest areas;  (ii) assess the impacts of the 
activities of local communities on said areas; (iii) assess the impacts on the local 
communities of the establishment of new reserves or corridors; (iv) identify the 
opportunities and mechanisms for co-management of said areas; and (v) develop an 
ethnic minorities action plan, if appropriate.
(c)
identification of management needs for selected priority areas;
(d)
assessment of the training needs at the individual reserve and provincial 
levels with a view to engage local communities in reserve co-management;
(e)
development of a monitoring and evaluation plan including indicators of 
biological impact, sustainable use, community involvement, and socio-economic 
benefits;
(f)
design of targeted public information, awareness and education programs 
on co-management of priority areas;
(g)
conduct of workshops with stakeholders to promote consultation and 
participation of local governments and communities; and
(h)
conduct of a workshop with donors and non governmental organizations to 
ensure successful coordination and implementation of all proposed activities and avoid 
duplication.
2.
Implementation  Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall:  (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time 
to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of 
the Activities and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to 
visit the territory of the Recipient for the purposes related to the Grant.*    
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so 
request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of 
the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
   Allocated 
Expenditures to
Item
(in US Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
300,000
100%
Services
Page  3
(2)
Training
 50,000
100%
TOTAL
350,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter 
Agreement; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of 
the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such territories; (iv) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, if such payment, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after June 30, 2000 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to 
the Closing Date and received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, 
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled ; and (b) if, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support 
of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall 
be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant is supporting evidence must be sufficient in 
form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such 
amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out 
of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c)training, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect the Activities of the department or agencies of 
the Recipient responsible for carrying out related to the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, and accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles and consistently applied, by independent auditors with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
Page  4
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (b) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least after one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with 
any of its obligations therein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the [International] Bank [for 
Reconstruction and Development] or any development credit agreement with the 
[International Development Association] {IDA] shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within 90 days after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities;  or (c) if the Bank has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the 
Project; or (d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance 
in financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  5
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent 
of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)  The term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts out of the proceeds of the 
Page  6
Grant as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to a paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account.
(a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex of this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account:
(c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)  Once the total withdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount. 
Page  7
