OFFICIAL
DOCUMENT
CREDIT NUMBER 5198-KG
GRANT NUMBER H824-KG
Financing Agreement
(Second Additional Financing for the
Second Village Investment Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                ,2013


﻿FINANCING AGREEMENT
Agreement dated     177(       /4ti        , 2013, entered into between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC ("Recipient") '?nd the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("Association") for the purpose of providing additional financing for the
Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Recipient and the
Association hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I- GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II- FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit (collectively,
"Financing") in the following amounts to assist in financing the project described
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project"):
(a)    an amount equivalent to one million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,300,000) ("Grant"); and
(b)    an amount equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,500,000) ("Credit").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04.  The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.


﻿2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.  The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the
General Conditions and the Project Agreement.
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: that the Project
Implementing Entity's Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the
Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: that any event
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
of thirty (30) days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to
the Recipient.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient
and the Project Implementing Entity.
-2-


﻿(b)    The Project Implementing Entity has recruited a consultant, acceptable to
the Association, to prepare detailed design documentation and detailed
cost estimates for remedial works to be financed under Part II.A of the
Project.
(c)    The Project Implementing Entity has prepared Terms of Reference,
acceptable to the Association, for construction supervision of remedial
works.
5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: that the Subsidiary
Agreement has been executed by the Recipient and the Project Implementing
Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing
Entity in accordance with its terms.
5.03.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
5.04.  For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is the Minister of Finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Finance
58 Erkindik Blvd.
Bishkek, 720040
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:                     Facsimile:
245-156 NUR KH             (996-312) 661645
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
-3-


﻿Cable:              Telex:              Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic, as of the day and year first above
written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By
Autorized Representative
Name: /0 /2t-O
Title: /',,ir           c  '      c,c
INTERNATIO       D   ELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authorized Representative
Name: 4I
Title:  N       MV61
-4-


﻿SCHEDULE1
Project Description
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient with: (a) improving
governance and capacity at the local level; (b) strengthening the provision of, and access
to, essential infrastructure services; and (c) supporting private group-owned small-scale
enterprise development.
The Project consists of the Original Project, except that Financing provided by
this Agreement will not support Part I of the Original Project, and Part II is hereby
revised as follows:
Part II Village Investments
A.     Provision of Community Grants to eligible communities to assist them with the
implementation of the Community Investment Plans, and
B.     Remediation of structural deficiencies of selected Micro-project infrastructure
financed by the Original Project through the provision of works, consultants'
services and goods.
-5-


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.    Implementation Arrangements
A.     Institutional Arrangements
1. The Recipient shall maintain the Project Implementing Entity until completion of
the Project with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
2.     The Recipient shall not amend or cause the Project Implementing Entity to
amend the Project Implementing Entity's Legislation without prior approval by
the Association, and shall assign to the Project Implementing Entity the
responsibility for overall Project management and coordination, including, inter
alia:
(a)    preparation of withdrawal applications under the Financing;
(b)    maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project and arranging
for the audit thereof,
(c)    participation in administration of bidding procedures and of contracts
under the Project; and
(d)    preparation of quarterly Project Reports pursuant to paragraph A of
Section II of this Schedule.
3.     The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to,
implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operational
Manual. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient or the
Project Implementing Entity shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive
any provision of said Manual, if, in the opinion of the Association, such
amendment or waiver may materially affect the carrying out of the Project or the
achievement of the Project objectives.
4.     The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity maintains the
Operational Manual and that said Manual covers, inter alia, the following
matters: (a) eligibility criteria for Community grants and Micro-projects; (b) the
principles and procedures to be followed for the approval of Community grants
and Micro-projects; (c) regional allocation of the Financing; (d) community
contribution requirements for Micro-projects; (e) the indicators to be utilized by
the Project Implementing Entity in monitoring the progress of the Project; and (f)
procurement and supervision procedures for retrofitting works.
-6-


﻿5.     The Recipient shall: (i) take all actions, including ensuring the provision of
funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the
carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity; and (ii) not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the
carrying out of the Project.
B.     Subsidiary Agreement
1 .    To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds
of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under
terms and conditions approved by the Association ("Subsidiary Agreement").
2.     The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
C.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
D.     Micro-projects under Part II.A of the Project
1 .    The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to make Community-
Grants to Beneficiaries under Part II of the Project in accordance with eligibility
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association, which shall include the
eligibility criteria, procedures, and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Operational Manual.
2.     The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to enter into a
Community-Grant Agreement with each Beneficiary when making a
Community-Grant on terms and conditions approved by the Association, which
shall include the following:
(a)    The Community-Grant shall be denominated in Kyrgyz soms.
(b)    The Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and
those of the Association, including the right to: (i) suspend or terminate
the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Community-Grant,
or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the Community-
Grant then withdrawn, upon the Beneficiary's failure to perform any of
-7-


﻿its obligations under the Community-Grant Agreement; and (ii) require
each Beneficiary to:
(A)    carry out its Micro-project with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial,
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices
satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines, EMP, the Land
Acquisition Policy Framework and the relevant Land
Acquisition Plan(s);
(B)    without limitation to the generality of the provisions of the
preceding paragraph (i), require the Beneficiary to carry out and
operate the Micro-project with due regard to applicable social
impact, ecological, environmental and pollution control
standards and in accordance with the provisions of the
Operational Manual;
(C)    for Micro-projects which require an EMP or a Land Acquisition
Plan, require the Beneficiary to prepare such plans and carry out
such plans in a timely manner;
(D)    provide, promptly as needed, the resources required for the
purpose of the Micro-projects;
(E)    procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the
Community-Grant in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement;
(F)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor
and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the
Association, the progress of the Micro-project and the
achievement of its objectives;
(G)    (1)    maintain a financial management system and prepare
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a
manner adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures related to the Micro-project; and
(2)    at the Association's or the Recipient's request, have such
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and promptly
-8-


﻿furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the
Association;
(H)    enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the Micro-
project, its operation and any relevant records and documents;
(I)    prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such
information as the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing; and
(J)    suspend and terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Community Grant upon failure by such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Recipient.
E.     Implementation of Part II.B of the Project
For the purposes of carrying out remedial activities under Part II.B of the Project,
the Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity:
(i)    to procure consultants' services for the preparation of detailed designs
for selected infrastructure and facilities to be retrofitted under the
Project, and submit the completed designs for the Association's review
and approval;
(ii)   to procure works for carrying out of remedial activities using contract
templates satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, without
limitation, adequate technical and engineering standards for works and
appropriate liability clauses;
(iii)  to carry out construction supervision of retrofitting works with the
assistance of engineers with skills and qualifications acceptable to the
Association; and
(iv)   to ensure proper certification of completed works by the Recipient's
relevant authorities, prior to final payments under the contracts.
F.     Safeguards
1.     The Recipient shall, and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to, carry out
the Project in accordance with the provisions of EMP, the Land Acquisition
Policy Framework and the relevant Land Acquisition Plans.
2.     The Recipient shall and shall cause the Project Implementing Entity not to
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive any provisions of EMP, the Land
-9-


﻿Acquisition Policy Framework or the Land Acquisition Plan(s) without prior
approval of the Association.
3.     No Micro-project or retrofitting activity under Part II.B involving land
acquisition and/or resettlement shall be undertaken unless the Project
Implementing Entity shall have first prepared a Land Acquisition Plan in relation
to said Micro-project or retrofitting activity, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association and in accordance with the provisions set forth 'in the Land
Acquisition Policy Framework, and shall have implemented such plan(s) in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section II.   Project Monitoring, Reportint! and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
1.     The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Association.
2.     Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter and shall be
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the
period covered by such report.
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.     The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2.     Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report and not later
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
3.     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project
Implementing Entity. The audited Financial Statements for each such period
shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of
such period.
-10-


﻿Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1.     Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.    International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following table
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a)    National Competitive Bidding, subject to the provisions contained in the
attached Annex to this Schedule 2.
(b)   Shopping
(c)   Community Participation
(d)   Direct Contracting
-11-


﻿C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than.Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Least Cost Selection
(b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants
(d) Single-Source Selection
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Association.
Section IV.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Credit and of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
-12-


﻿Amount of the      Amount of the     Percentage of Expenditures
Credit Allocated   Grant Allocated          to be Financed
Catep_ory
(expressed in SDR)  (expressed in SDR)     (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Consultants'           100,000             90,000       90% of Foreign Expenditures
services and Training                                       and 100% of Local
Expenditures
(2) Goods, works,
Community Grants          1,400,000           1,210,000     100%
under Part II.A, and
Incremental Operating
Costs
TOTAL AMOUNT              1,500,000           1,300,000
B.    Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
2.     The Closing Date is October 31, 2014.
-13-


﻿ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
MODIFICATIONS TO NATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING (NCB) PROCEDURES
The procurement procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be the
tendering with unlimited participation procurement method set forth in the Law of the
Kyrgyz Republic on Public Procurement No. 69 of May 24, 2004 (as amended by the
following laws of the Kyrgyz Republic: (i) Law No. 172 dated July 28, 2008; (ii) Law
No. 236 dated July 20, 2009; and (iii) Law No. 88 dated July 8, 2011) (the "PPL");
provided, however, that such procedure shall be subject to the provisions of Section I and
Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the "Guidelines for Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-
Consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" (January 2011) (the "Procurement Guidelines") and the following additional
provisions:
1. Eligibility: Eligibility of bidders to participate in a procurement process and to
be awarded an Association-financed contract shall be as defined under Section I
of the Procurement Guidelines; accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall
be declared ineligible for contracts financed by the Bank or Association for
reasons other than those provided in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
2. Domestic Preference: No domestic preference may be applied in bid evaluation
on the basis of bidder nationality, the origin of goods, services or labor, and/or
preferential programs.
3. Registration and Licensing: Registration shall not be used to assess bidders'
qualifications. A foreign bidder shall not be required to register or obtain a
license as a condition for submitting its bid, and a foreign bidder recommended
for contract award shall be given a reasonable opportunity to register or obtain a
license, with the reasonable cooperation of the Borrower, prior to contract
signing.
4. Bidding Documents: Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard
bidding documents acceptable to the Association, which documents shall be
prepared so as to ensure economy, economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad
consistency with the provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines.
5. Bid Validity: The bid validity period required by the bidding documents shall be
sufficient to account for any period that may be required for the approval and
registration of the contract as contemplated in the PPL. An extension of bid
validity, if justified by exceptional circumstances, may be requested in writing
from all bidders before the original bid validity expiration date, provided that
such extension shall cover only the minimum period required to complete the
evaluation, award a contract, and/or complete the contract registration process.
-14-


﻿No further extensions shall be requested without the prior written concurrence of
the Association.
6. Qualification: Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. All criteria so specified, and only such specified criteria, shall be
used to determine whether a bidder is qualified. Qualification shall be assessed
on a "pass or fail" basis, and merit points shall not be used. Such assessment
shall be based entirely upon the bidder's or prospective bidder's capability and
resources to effectively perform the contract, taking into account objective and
measurable factors, including: (a) relevant general and specific experience, and
satisfactory past performance and successful completion of similar contracts over
a given period; (b) financial position; and where relevant (c) capability of
construction and/or manufacturing facilities.
Prequalification procedures and documents acceptable to the Association shall be
used for large, complex and/or specialized works contracts. Verification of the
information upon which a bidder was prequalified, including current
commitments and the bidder's capability with respect to personnel and
equipment, shall be carried out at the time of contract award.
In the procurement of goods and works where prequalification is not used, the
qualification of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be
assessed by post-qualification, applying the qualification criteria stated in the
bidding documents.
7. Cost Estimates and State Unit Costs: Cost estimates shall be confidential and
shall not be disclosed to prospective bidders. No bids shall be rejected on the
basis of comparison with the cost estimates and/or budget ceiling without the
Association's prior written concurrence. State unit costs shall not be used for
contract budgeting and/or for evaluation for civil works contracts.
8. Bid Submission and Bid Opening: Prospective bidders shall be given at least
thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the invitation to bid or the date of
availability of the bidding documents, whichever is later, to prepare and submit
bids. Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline for their
submission. No bids shall be rejected at bid opening. A copy of the bid opening
minutes shall be promptly provided to all bidders who submitted bids, and to the
Association with respect to contracts subject to the Association's prior review.
9. Rejection of Bids and Re-bidding: No bids shall be rejected solely because they
exceed the estimated cost. All bids (or the sole bid if only one bid is received)
shall not be rejected, the procurement process shall not be cancelled, and new
bids shall not be solicited without the Association's prior written concurrence.
-15-


﻿10. Bid Evaluation: Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding
documents. Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the evaluation
criteria specified in the bidding documents. All bid evaluation criteria other than
price shall be quantifiable in monetary terms. Merit points shall not be used, and
no minimum point or percentage value shall be assigned to the significance of
price, in bid evaluation. Bidders shall not be eliminated on the basis of minor,
nonmaterial deviations.
Contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder whose bid has been
determined: (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (ii)
to offer the lowest-evaluated cost. No negotiations shall be permitted in
connection with the bid evaluation or the contract registration process.
11. Guarantees: Guarantees shall be in the format specified in the bidding
documents. The bid guarantee shall be valid for twenty-eight days (28) beyond
the original validity period of the bid, or beyond any period of extension if
requested.
12. Contract Modifications: With respect to contracts subject to the Association's
prior review, the Borrower shall obtain the Association's no objection before
agreeing to: (i) a material extension of the stipulated time for performance of a
contract; (ii) any substantial modification of the contract scope of services or
other significant changes to the terms and conditions of the contract; (iii) any
variation order or amendment (except in cases of extreme urgency) which, singly
or combined with all variation orders or amendments previously issued, increases
the original contract amount by more than 15 percent; or (iv) the proposed
termination of the contract. A copy of all contract amendments shall be provided
to the Association.
13. Fraud and Corruption: The bidding documents and contract as deemed acceptable
by the Association shall include provisions stating the Association's policy to
sanction firms or individuals, found to have engaged in fraud and corruption as
defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
14. Inspection and Audit Rights: In accordance with the Procurement Guidelines,
each bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the
Financing shall provide that bidders, suppliers and contractors, and their
subcontractors, agents, personnel, consultants, service providers, or suppliers,
shall permit the Association to inspect all accounts, records, and other documents
relating to the submission of bids and contract performance, and to have them
audited by auditors appointed by the Association. Acts intended to materially
impede the exercise of the Association's inspection and audit rights provided for
in the Procurement Guidelines constitute an obstructive practice as defined in the
Procurement Guidelines.
-16-


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due                Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August 15:
commencing on February 15, 2023 to and including 1%
August 15, 2032
commencing on February 15, 2033 to and including 2%
August 15, 2052
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
-17-


﻿APPENDIX
Definitions
1.    "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
2.     "Beneficiary Community" means an eligible community which is a recipient or
proposed to be a recipient of a Community Grant of the Project for the
implementation of a Community Investment Plan.
3.     "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
4.     "Community-Grant" means a grant provided or proposed to be provided to an
eligible community from the proceeds of the Financing to finance expenditures in
respect of goods, works and consultants' services necessary for the
implementation of a Community Investment Plan under the Project.
5.     "Community Grant Agreement" means an agreement among a respective local
investment union executive committee, a respective village council and the
Project Implementing Entity for the provision of a Community Grant to a
Beneficiary Community.
6.     "Community Investment Plan" means an investment plan prepared by an eligible
community in accordance with the principles and procedures and eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and financed or proposed to be
financed by a Community Grant.
7.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
8.     "Environmental Management Plan" or "EMP" means the plan, satisfactory to the
Association, dated September 24, 2009, adopted by the Recipient and included in
the Operational Manual, describing the environmental mitigations, monitoring
and institutional measures for the Project, including the guidelines for
environmental screening and assessment of Micro-projects.
9.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010.
-18-


﻿10.    "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating expenditures
incurred by the Project Implementing Entity on account of the Project
implementation, management, monitoring and evaluation, including salaries of
contractual staff, Social Charges and expenditures for office rent, office
maintenance and office repairs, as well as expenditures for materials and
supplies, communication costs, support for information systems, translation
costs, bank charges and travel and per diem costs of the Project Implementing
Entity's staff and other reasonable expenditures directly associated with
implementation of the Project activities, all based on an annual budget acceptable
to the Association, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil
service and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the Association.
11.    "Land Acquisition Plan" means a site-specific land acquisition plan prepared in
accordance with the parameters laid down in the Land Acquisition Policy
Framework, acceptable to the Association, to be developed by the Project
Implementing Entity for each Micro-project which involves land acquisition
and/or resettlement.
12.    "Land Acquisition Policy Framework" means the land acquisition policy
framework, satisfactory to the Association, dated September 24, 2009, adopted
by the Recipient and setting forth: (i) the description of the Project and activities
for which land acquisition and/or resettlement may be required; (ii) the principles
and objectives governing resettlement preparation and implementation; (iii) a
description of the process for preparing and approving Land Acquisition Plans;
(iv) estimated population displacement and likely categories of displaced or
affected persons; (v) eligibility criteria for defining various categories of
displaced and affected persons; (vi) a legal framework reviewing the fit between
Recipient's laws and regulations and the Association's policy requirements and
measures proposed to bridge any gaps between them; (vii) methods of valuing
affected assets; (viii) a description of the grievance mechanisms; (ix) a
description of compensation mechanisms; and (x) monitoring arrangements by
the Project Implementing Entity and, if required, by independent monitors.
13.    "Micro-project" means a micro-project included or proposed to be included in a
Community Investment Plan under Part II of the Project and to be financed from
proceeds of a Community Grant.
14.    "Operational Manual" means the operational manual satisfactory to the
Association, dated September 24, 2009, adopted by the Project Implementing
Entity and setting forth, inter alia: (a) the procedures for the implementation and
monitoring of the Project; (b) the eligibility criteria, the Beneficiary contribution
requirements  and  the   preparation,  evaluation,  selection,  financing,
implementation and supervision of procedures for Micro-projects and
Community Grants; and (c) EMP.
-19-


﻿15.    "Original Financing Agreement" means the Financing Agreement for the Second
Village Investment Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated
October 3, 2006 (Grant No. H250 KG).
16.    "Original Project" means the Project described in the Original Financing
Agreement.
17.    "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
18.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 8, 2012 and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
19.    "Project Implementing Entity" means the Recipient's Community Development
and Investment Agency of the Kyrgyz Republic, or any successor thereto.
20.    "Project Implementing Entity's Legislation" means the Edict of the President of
the Kyrgyz Republic No. 330, dated October 15, 2003, including any
amendments thereto or any succeeding legislation, establishing the Project
Implementing Entity.
21.    "Social Charges" means any payment, premiums, or contributions for health
benefits, unemployment benefits, disability insurance, workers' compensation
benefits, retirement (pension or social security) benefits, and life insurance,
which constitute payment for the drawdown of future benefits to the staff
concerned.
22.    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement between the Recipient and the
Project Implementing Entity pursuant to Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement.
-20-


