Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
La/l 3023?XKoL
Report No. 7531-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 15, 1989
Industry and Eneray Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclos;ed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November J0, 1988)
US$1.0            = P21.4
Pl.O0             - US$ 0.0467
Pi million        - US$ 4',729
P1 billion        = US$ 46.7 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            - Asian Development Bank
AJDF           -  ASEAN Japan Development Fund
BETP           -  Bureau of Export Trade Promotion (TTG/DTI)
BOC            -  Bureau of Customs
BOI            -  Board of Investments
BSMBD          -  Bureau of Small and Medium Business Development (RDC/DTI)
CB             -  Central Bank of the Philippines
CITEM          -  Center for International Trade Expositions and Missions
DBP            -  Development Bank of the Philippines
DLC            -  Department of Loans and Credit (CB)
DTI            -  Department of Trade and Industry
GFSME          -  Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium Industries
GTEB           -  Garments and Textiles Export Board
ITDI           -  Industrial Technology and Development Institute
ITG            -  International Trade Group (DTI)
IGLF           -  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
JGF            -  Japan Grant Facility
MEP            -  Market Encounter Program
NACIDA         -  National Cottage Industries Development Authority
NBFI           -  Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
NEDA           -  National Economic and Development Authority
NIST           -  National Institute of Science and Technology
PCR            -  Project Completion Report
PDB            -  Private Development Banks
PDDCP          -  Product Development and Design Center of the Philippines
(ITG/DTI)
PFI            -  Participating Financial Institution
PSP            -  Product Specialist Program
PTTC           -  Philippines Trade Training Center
PVO            -  Private Voluntary Organization
RDG            -  Regional Development Group (DTI,
SMI            -  Small and Medium Industry
UiPISSI        -  University of the Philippines Institute for Small-Scale
Industries
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
IGLF:        January 1 to December 31



NS OFFCAL WI ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiaries:      Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) and accredited
financial institutions.
Amount:             US$60.0 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest.
Relen ing Terms:   The Government of the Philippines would relend the proceeds
of the loan to the IGLF on terms similar to the Bank loan.
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. IGLF
would relend the proceeds to accredited participating
financial institutions (PFIs) in domestic currency at rates
based on the prevailing interest rate of time deposits in
the Philippines. PFIs would be given a choice of five-year
fixed rates or variable rates, adjusted according to market
interest rate movements with a cap of 1? per semester.
Maturities would conform to the maturity of subloans which
would vary up to a maximum of 12 years depending on the
purpose of the subloan. PFIs would on-lend the proceeds to
their subborrowers at prevailing market interest rates.
Cofinanciers:       Asian Development Bank, Japan Grant Facility, ASEAN Japan
Development Fund.
Project
Description:        The Project's objectives are to help to ensure that:  (a)
long-term resources continue to be available for long-term
financing needs of the SMI Aector; (b) the access of SMI
firms to finance is improved b: strengthening the IGLF
guarantee; (c) short-term pre-shipment export finance,
along with a strong pre-shipment export finance guarantee,
becomes more widely available to direct and indirect SMI
exporters; (d) SMI exporters have improved access to
inputs at world prices through streamlined and simplified
duty drawback and exemption systems; (e) key technical
assistance programs to SMI firms are continued and user
cost-sharing is introduced; and (f) institutional and
policy reforms related to SMI exporters are identified and
appropriate measures designed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bark authorization.



- ii -
The Project would have the following components: (a) a
line of credit (comprising 992 of the total project cost)
to IGLF to support SHI long-term investment and short-term
export financing needs during 1989-1991; (b) an Export
Component, which would provide equipment and related
services, training and administrative costs, and
consultancy assistance to improve the access of SHI
exporters to duty drawback/exemption, export
finance/guarantee and marketing assistance and trade
information services; and (c) a DTI Support Component,
which would provide training and equipment to strengthen
DTI's regional offices and technical assistance for policy
formulation and program design in the area of exporL and
industry development.
There are no unusual project ri-ks. Like any credit
project, demand will be subject to the overall performance
of the economy. However, the demand projections are
reasonably conservative and well within the historical
performance of the IGLF. The introduction of market-based
interest rates will also help to ensure that credit demand
is not subject to wide swings due to distortions in
administered rates, as occurred in the past.



- iii -
Estimated Costtal                             Local      Foreign   Total
------ (USS million)   -
Credit Component                    195.0       160.0    355.0
Export Component                      1.1         1.6      2.7
DTI Support Component                 0.3         0.4      0.7
Total Baseline Cost          196.4       162.0    356.4
Price contingencies                   0.2         0.1      0.3
Total Project Cost           196.6        162.1    358.7
Financing Plan:
Subloan beneficiaries                80.0         -       80.0
T.A. beneficiaries                    0.1         -        0.1
Participating Financial
Institutions                      28.0        -        28.0
IGLF                                 47.0         -       47.0
ADB                                   -         100.0    100.0
ASEAN Japan Development Fund         40.0         -       40.0
Japan Grant Facility                  1.5         2.1      3.6
IBRD                                  -         60.0      60.0
Total                    196.6       162.1    358.7
Estimated
Disbursements           IBRD FY                   90       91        92       93
-------   (USS million) ------
Annual                        12.3      19.0      23.3     5.4
Cumulative                    12.3      31.3      54.6    60.0
Rate of Return:   N.A.
a/ Project costs includes a negligitle amount of taxes and duties



- iv -
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paso No.
Loan and Project Summary ...............................,.........    i
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND..                                                                1
A. The Industsial Sector.                                                     1
B.  Thre Small and Medium (SMI) Industries Sector.                            2
SMI Definition.                                                      2
SMI Role in Manufactu-ing Sector.                                    2
Overall Incentive Framework for SI.                                  3
SMI Financing.                                                       4
SMI as Exporters ...............,.  5
Technical Assistance for SI.                                         6
C. Bank Objectives and Role in the Sector.                                    7
II. THE PROJECT.                                                                      9
A.  Project Objectives .................................. .....    9
B.  Project Description .......................................   10
C.  Credit Component (IGLF) ...................................   10
The IGLF Program ......................................   10
Operating Policies and Procedures .....................   11
Eligibility for IGLF Loans ............................   12
Past Performance of IGLF ..............................   13
Interest Rates ........................................   13
Preferential Rate for Selected Regions ................   15
Demand for IGLF Funds .................................   16
PFI Share of Term Loans ...............................   16
IGLF Guarantee ........................................   16
Export Pre-Shipment Facility ..........................   17
IGLF Organization and Staff ...........................   18
IGLF Project Supervision ..............................   18
IGLF Financial Position and Performance ...............   18
D.  Export Component ..........................................   19
Pre-shipment Export Guarantee .........................   19
Access to Inputs ......................................   20
Trade Information Services ............................   22
Marketing Development .................................   23
This report was prepared by Mr. K. Young and Ms. M. Hanson (AS2IE), and
Messrs. B. Nichols, E. Park, and M. Moran (consultants) following a field
appraisal of the project in October/November 1988.



v 
Page No.
E.  DTI Support Component .....................................   24
Support   for  Regional  Operations   ......................                                            24
Policy/Program Design Assistance ......................   25
Implementation ........................................   25
F.  Overall Project Cost. and Financing .......................   25
III.      THE  PROPOSED  BANK  LOAN ..................                                  ......................                    29
A.  Features of the Loan ......................................   29
Lending Arrangements ..................................   29
Procurement ...........................................   30
Disbursement ..........................................   30
Free Limit and Subproject Review ......................   31
Reporting and Audit Requirements ......................   31
B.  Benefits and Risks ........................................   32
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .................................   32
A.  Agreements and Understandings .............................   32
B.  Condition of Effectiveness ................................   34
C.  Recommendation ............................................   34



- vi -
ANNEXES
1. SHI Activity by Industry
2. Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Table I    IGLF Accredited Financial Institutiors as of 12/31/87
Table 2    IGLF Outstanding Loan Portfolio (including
Sponsorship Scheme) as of 12/31/87
Table 3    TGLF Loans Compared to Other Categories of Credit In
the Philippines, 1982-86
Table 4    Number of Branches of IGLF - Accredited Financial
Institutions by Region
Table 5    IGLF Summary of Operations, 1982-87
Table 6    Characteristics of STD Approvals by Size, Purpose and
Maturity, 1982-87
Table 7    Regional Distribution of IGLF Loans Approved, 1982-87
Table 8    Sectoral Distribution of IGLF Loans Approved, 1982-87
Table 9    Analysis of Arrears of IGLF Portfolio as of 12/31/87
Table 10   Analysis of Arrears Between End-Users and PFIs UJnder
the Accreditation Scheme as of 12/31/87
Table 11   Analysis of Arrears Between End-Users and PFIs as of
12/31/87
Table 12   Loan Collection Ratios of PFIs from End-Users,
1983-87
Table 13   Outstanding IGLF Loans With and Without Guarantees as
of 12/31/87
Table 14   Summarized IGLF Balance Sheets, 1982-87
Table 15   Summcrized IGLF Income Statements, 1982-87
Chart 1    IGLF Otganization Chart
3. Detailed Cost Estimates for the Project
4. Disbursement Schedule
5. Project File Data and Documents



PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Industrial Sector
1.1      The development of industry during the 1970s occurred within a policy
environment that provided high and variable levels of trade protection, a
distorted exchange rate, handsome incentives for new investment, and cheap and
readily available long-term finance from public financial institutions. In
addition, the Government itself became a large direct investor in major
industrial projects. Although industrial growth was rapid, it was costly.
Capital and intermediate good inputs grew faster than output, and total factor
productivity declined systematically. The benefits of growth were also
unevenly distributed. The share of employment in manufacturing remained low
(at only 112) and actually declined somewhat during the 1970s, as sizeable
growth in medium and large firms was offset by an employment contraction in
small-scale industry. Real wages in industry also declined, while the
protection afforded the manufacturing sector caused an appreciation of the
real exchange rate and a downward bias against rural incomes.
1.2      The structure of the industrial base that was created in the 1970s
was brittle and largely uncompetitive. Non-traditional manufacturing export
growth was narrowly concentrated in prcduct mix (semi-conductors and garments)
and destination (the USA). The remainder of industry, where the bulk of value
added was created, was highly susceptible to domestic demand. This was,
however, artificially inflated by protection, by heavy foreign borrowing and
by infusions of credit and transfers from the government. The momentum given
to industrial growth by these measures began to taper off in the late 1970s,
when the scope for further expansion of import substitution under heavy
protection was exhausted, and technological weaknesses and other
inefficiencies fostered by the lack of competition began to take their toll.
In addition, the financing requirements of high domestic demand could not be
indefinitely sustained. Rapid changes in the international environment since
1980, high interest rates and a foreign exchange crisis led to forced
austerity measures which further propelled industry along its downward trend.
Industrial output declined by 25Z during 1982 through 1986. tlany firms ceased
operation and declared bankruptcy. Even firms in operation limped along at
50-60% capacity utilization. Since 1987, however. there has been a
significant recovery in industry which grew at 8% in 1987 and is estimated to
grow at 102 in 1988. This has largely resulted from the excellent performance
of manufacturing.
1.3      The lessons of the past have not gone unheeded.  Since 1980,
Government has undertaken a process of gradually removing the major sources of
distortions within the system. Although the reform process has been far from



2
smooth, or as yet complete, much has been accomplished as a result of
cumulative actions over the past seven years. Paradoxically, the economic arid
financial crisis which derailed the trade reforms during 1983-85, provided the
momentw  for drastically reducing some of the more intractable government
interventions in the industLial sector.  Following the change in government in
February 1986, the pace of reiorm has quickened and, with the resumption of
import liberalization in 1986, significant progress has now been achieved in
all of the key areas of needed reform including tariff refom, incentives,
financial policy, foreign exchange and exchange rate management and
privatization of public industrial asse* s. Although policy-induced
distortions still remain, the degree of transformation is striking and
represents a major achievement of the policy reform process.
B. The Small and Medium Indt'eries (SMI) Sector
1.4       SMI Definition.  The SMI sector in the Philippines includes cottage,
small-scale and medium-scale industries which m&y be defined either in terms
of asset size or number of employees. The asset based definition is used by
the banking sector in determining eligibility for finance; the Census of
Manufacturers, however, categorizes industries based on number of employees.
Thus, cottage industries may have total assets before financing ranging
between P50,000-499,999 (about US$2,300-23,000), or less than 10 employees;
small industries may have total assets ranging between P500,000-4,999,999
(about US$23,000-240,000), or 10-99 employees; and medium industries have
total assets ranging between P5-20 million (about US$240,000-930,000), or
100-199 employees. Based on fixed asset data provided is the Census of
Manufacturers, there appears to be strong correlation between the asset- and
employment-based SMI definitions; average fixed assets of the various SMI
subsectors, defined in terms of omployment, fall well within the total asset
cut-off points for SMI.
1.5       SMI Role in Manufacturing Sector.  The latest data available from the
1983 Census of Manufacturing Establishments show that there were over 55,000
firms in the SMI sector, equivalent to over 98X of the total number of
manufacturing establishments. While SMI account for 432 of the employment
generated by the manufacturing sector, they hold only 23? of the fixed assets
of manuft.cturing establishments, indicating their relative labor-intensity,
and contribute 21Z of the total value-added of the mar.ufacturing sector (see
Table 1.1 below). Of particular significance in interpreting this data is the
highly dualistic structure of firm size. There are a very large number of
cottage industries (less than. 10 employees) which constitute 90Z of the number
firms in manufacturing and 21? of employment and yet contribute only 22 of
value added in the sector. At the other extreme are a dominant group of large
firms which constitute only 1Z of firms yet account for 57Z of employment and
almost 80Z of value added. In the middle is a relatively small gro"'-  (abo: t
5,000) of small and medium firrns which contributp about 22Z of mar.-Lacturing
employment and 192 of value-added. It is this group of small and medium firms
that is the focus of this Project.



3
Table 1.lt INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE, 1983
Share of        Share of
Firm size                            Number of firms    employees    value added
SMI                                      55,330              43.3          21.1
Cottage (<10 employees)                   50,313             21.0            2.4
Small (10-99 employees)                   4,512              14.4          10.4
Medium (100-199 employees)                   505              7.9            8.2
Large (200+ employees)                       717             56.7           78.9
Total                                     56,047            100.0         100.0
Source: NCSO, Census of Establishments, 1983.
1.6      SMI firms are important in a wide range of manufacturing subsectorL
contributing ever 302 of value added in food processing, apparel, leather
products, footwear, wood and furniture, printing, chemicals, rubber, plastics
fabricated metals and machin.ery. The most prominent SMI subsector is food
processing which accounts for over one quarter of all SMI value added (see
Annex 1).
1.7      Overall Incentive Framework for SMI.  The overall incentive framework
has been biased against SMI firms. During the sixties and seventies,
restrictive trade policies, noted above, worked against small firms by
providing incentives for capital-intensive sectors where SKI are at a
disadvantage, by discriminating against domestic suppliers of intermediate
inputs for export products, and bv generally permitting inefficient
production, irr2spective of firm size.  The Go-ernment has recognized the
costs of the highly protectionist trade policy, not only to SMI but to all
industry, and since 1980 has been implementing far reaching trade reforms.
1.8      Fiscal incentives also have discriminated against SMI by favoring
capital-intensive firms.  Onercas registration procedures have also restricted
SMI firms' access to sucnl incentives. In addition, misguided incentives to
cottage industries, initiated in the 1970s through the National Cottage
Industries Development Authority (NACIDA), made such industries dependent on
subsidies, and had the effect of inhibiting the growth of potentially
efficient firms and preventing the natural phasing out of non-productive
firms. Government has also taken steps to try to reduce these biases.
Cottage incentives have been abolished. Board of Investments (BOI) incentives
have been revised with a view to making them more neutral among different
types and sizes of industry. Rather than create new incentives and
administrative systems for SMI firms, the emphasis has been on improving SMI
access to incentives already available for industrial promotion. The
Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) has been recently reorganized and has
placed increased importance on effective delivery of its services, including
BOI incentives to the regions. Simplified BOI registration procedures,
administered through regional offices by staff capab.e of advising SMI firms
of their eligi',;ility for incentives, are being pursued under the reorganized



4
DTI. A further simplication arises from the introduction, under the Omnibus
Investment Code, of a restricted validation period (3 days) and assessment
time (17 days) for application. Registration is deemed to have been granted
by default uviless formally granted within that time period. While it is too
early yet to assess the effectiveness of these measures, DTI has hired
consultants to undertake a study to evaluate the impact on SM; registration.
This study is scheduled for completion until 1989 and will be submitted to the
Batik .
1.9      SMI Financing.  SMI access to financing, especially term financing
through conventional banking channels, nias been restricted. This has resulted
because of the lack of interest by the banks in lending to SMIs with weak
collateral and the higher cost and efforts of credit appraisal of small firms.
In an effort to offset these biases, the Government established a number of
credit programs for SKI firms. Two of the major institutional sources of
long-term finance for the SMI sector have been the Industrial Guarsntee and
Loan Fund (IGLF) and the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP). DBP
programs were discontinued between 1985 and 1987 due to a lack of counterpart
funds and overall institutional weaknesbes (but under a rehabilitation program
agreed by the Bank, DBP has now been restructured and is operational again).
1.10     IGLF is a rediscount and guaran.ee mechanism operated by the Central
Bank (CB) under which accredited financial institutions (commercial banks,
rural and thrift banks, private development banks and nonbank financial
institutions) are reimbursed for term loans (fixed asset and permanent working
capital) and, recently, short-term pre-shipment export credit to SMI, IGLF
also offers guarantees to cover credit and collateral short risks taken by the
participating financial institutions (PFIs) on IGLF rediscounted loans. IGLF
has in the past sourced its funds primarily from funds transferred from the
Government budget and from World Bank borrowings.
1.11     Overall, IGLF has become an important source of term finance for SMI
firms. by the end of 1986, IGLF loans represented 5X of all loans outstanding
to manufacturing firms in the Philippines. Moreover, it accour.ted for over
10? of all loans outstanding with maturities over 3 years. While this is
still significantly less than the SMI share (21Z) of value edded in
ifacturing, it is nonetheless substantial and clearly is the major source
of term funds for SMI. Furthermore, repayment perforn.ance has been good with
arrears from end-users to PFIs amounting to only 4Z of loans outstanding
during 1982-86. In the context of the overall turmoil in financial markets in
the Philippines in the mid-1980s, this is a very credible performance.
1.12     Nonetheless, there are a number of drawbacks and deficiencies in the
IGLF program that need to be remedied in order to provide SMI better access to
term finance. First, the interest rate arrangements under the IGLF program
have lagged behind changes in the overall interest rate regime in the
Philippines, which is largely market determined. The IGLF program as
currently priced fails to cover adequately the Government's interest, credit
and foreign exchange risks. Second, there is little evidence that significant
domestic resources are being mobilized to complement IGLF term lending to SMI
firms. Third, SMI access to credit is restricted by an ineffective guarantee
program. These problems need to be remedied not only to preserve the gains



5
that have already been made by the IGLF orogram but to expand its scope and
establish it as a continuous and increasingly self-reliant source of term
finance for SMI. These issues are being addressed under the proposed Project
(paras. 2.15 - 2.21, 2.24 and 2.25 - 2.27)
1.13     In addition, there are two other issues that have surfaced.  First.
the program has not been effective in covering cottage or micro enterprises.
Only 12 of the value of loans outstanding are to cottage firms. The design of
the program, which uses existing financial institutions, appears inappropriate
to address the needs of this group. Experience elsewhere suggests that a spe-
cialized and nontraditional form of financial intervention would be required
to reach this group effectively. While IGLF has started an innovative program
through private voluntary organizations, its usage has been small. In this
context, the Bank is proposing to review alternative approaches, outside of
the IGLF framework, for cottage firms and to support them with a possible
project focussed on their unique needs.
1.14     Second, Government is concerned that not enough IGLF funds are going
outside of Metro Manila. In 1987, only 27Z of IGLF loans went to the regions;
this figure compared with the 42Z of SMI industrial value added which
originated in the regions. IGLF loans made outside the three most active
regions (in 9 out of a total of 12 regions) amounted to only 72 of the total
program. While part of this relative shortfall in the regions may be due to
political turmoil, higher intermediation costs may also be a factor.
Accordingly, the Government proposes that IGLF offer schemes to stimulate
investment in the depressed areas of the country. While improving the
guarantee mechanism will be the primary long term change to achieve this end,
shorter term solutions include offering PFIs IGLF loans at a discount for
specified depressed areas.  The Government has explicitly ruled out ot'-sr
approaches, such as minimum credit targets for PFIs or fixing below market
rates for sub-borrowers in the regions, realizing that such approaches are
often counterproductive.
1.15     SMI as Exporters.  Nontraditional exports accounted for about 642 of
Philippine exports in 1987 and are expected to be a continued source of
economic growth for the country. Eight groups of manufactured goods
contributed nearly 802 of nontraditional exports: garments, electronic goods,
chemicals, food products, handicrafts, furniture, footwear and wood products.
With the exception of electronic goods, SMI are important manufacturers in
each of these subsectors and may be assumed to be important direct or indirect
exporters. While the specific export contribution of SMI manufacturers cannot
be quantified, as data are not currently collected on this type of SMI
performance, the importance of SMI production in the above nontraditional
export groups, together with the fact that in 1984 nearly 65Z of the 4,409
exporting firms had shipments valued at US$100,000 or less, would indicate
that SMI are active direct exporters. SMI are also known to be important
subcontractors to direct exporters in the garments and handicraft industries.
Since trading companies in the Philippines accounted for less than 42 cf total
exports, SMI export contributions have generally been in the form of direct
e::ports or as subcontracting for larger direct exporters.



6
1.16     The fact that so many small and medium direct exporters have been
exporting without much help from trading companies and that the substantial
potential for backward linkages from the major manufactured export products
have not been exploited yet, clearly suggests that small and medium producers
could make an important contribution to the acceleration of nontraditional
exports. In this regard, the World Bank's recent Industrial Sector Report on
the Philippines (No. 6706-PH, 7/30/87) stressed the importance of improving
the access of small and indirect exporters to duty free imports and to working
capital finance. While administrative arrangements exist in the Philippines
to provide exporters with duty free access, there are many gaps, restrictions
and inefficiencies in the existing systems that prevent small and indirect
exporters from adequate coverage. This issue is addressed in the proposed
Project (para. 2.42 - 2.48)
1.17     A second important constraint on SMI exporters is the lack of
adequate access to pre-shipment export finance so that even confirmed orders
cannot be fulfilled. Existing schemes have in practice covered only a very
limited number of exporters and a limited export value. Moreover, most of the
exporters excluded from access are small or indirect exporters. To try to
remedy this situation, Government recently established a new window in IGLF to
finance the pre-shipment needs of SMI exporters. lowever, usage to-date of
this facility has been limited. This may be partly due to the banks'
unfamiliarity with the scheme.   However, the major constraint appears to be
the lack of an effective pre-shipment export guarantee facility. The existing
guarantee offered by Philguarantee is extremely limited in its coverage and as
such is not an effective instrument to expand export finance. Proposals are
included under the Project to establish an effective guarantee facility
through selective institutional and operation changes in Philguarantee (para.
2.40).
1.18     Technical Assistance for SMI.  Support for the SMI sector in the
Philippines is offered through a wide range of programs addressing financial,
technical, business advisory, training and marketing issues. These programs
are delivered through government and private financial institutions,
Government departments and their associated agencies and by state-owned
corporations. The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) itself has played
the major role in designing and delivering technical assistance to the SMI
sector. DTI's Bureau of Small and Medium Industry (BSMI), which has a strong
regional representation, has historically providpd firm-level technical
assistance (most often assisting SMI in preparing financing proposals) and
industry-wide clinics through which private sector specialists help address
specific design or production problems of St1I producers. DTI's Center for
International Trade Exhibitions and Missions (CITEM) has achieved notable
success in exposing SMI products to export markets and, together ;.ith the
Design Center of the Philippines (PDDCP), has worked with SMI in various
subsectors to upgrade the quality and design of their products to
international standards. In addition, the Department's Bureau of Foreign
Trade is responsible for helping industries of all sizes to overcome market
information imperfections by providing up-to-date market data and information
relating to new trading opportunities. However, effective dissemination of
the data collected has been a problem. Important among existing programs for
SMI are two firm-level assistance programs, the Product Specialist (PSP) and



7
Market Encounter Programs (MEP), which have proven track records of
effectively helping SHIs in product design and marketing.
1.19     Successive Product Specialist Programs (PSP) have resulted in a
strong design awareness in firms and a small professional design industry in
the Philippines. The increased level of design awareness has led to a growth
in the level of employment of in-house designers, who continue to benefit from
their contact with the product specialists and with international buyers at
the Market Weeks. The Market Encounter Program (MEP), through its
organization of regional fairs, has served to introduce national and
international buyers to regional producers of crafted goods.  The program has
promoted improved product design and sales by SMI manufacturers through a
program of product adaptation and market promotion in the regions, with
follow-up consultdncy and advisory services to participants.
1.20     Over the long term, the establishment of a specialized trade
promotion organization, providing an integrated range of services tc exporters
and foreign buyers and funded without recourse to budgetary allocations from
the government would appear warranted. Such an organization could be based on
models existing in some of the world's most successful exporting nations,
including Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and South Korea. These provide an
integrated set of relevant services to exporters and foreign buyers, enjoy the
confidence of government and exporters, are represented in the principal
export markets, employ qualified and competent staff, and are securely and
adequatel- financed. Such a major overhaul of the export support system is,
however, not achievable overnight, and intermediate steps will be taken under
this Project to improve the responsiveness and relevance of existing programs
and institutions.
1.21     With the exception of CITEM's trade fairs and some of the training
courses ?rovided by DTI and funded in part by the Bank, the extension services
offered by DTI are generally provided free of charge to SMI. As a result, it
is difficult to judge the appropriateness as well as the value accorded DTI's
services. In addition, DTI has been criticized as being too promotional, and
overly concerned about increasing the absolute number of SMI. For future
technical assistance programs, particularly those for which Bank financinig
will be provided, the focus will be on improving the efficient growth and
profitability of SMI, and on sharing cost_. with participating SMI (paras. 2.52
and 2.53 - 2.54)
C. Bank Objectives and Role in the Sector
1.22     The Bank remains committed to assisting the Philippines to regain a
reasonable rate of growth in the industrial sector which is sustainable for
the medium to long term. Substantial industrial sector work has been
undertaken in the recently completed Country Economic Memorandum and
Industrial Sector Report. This work identifies a number of areas where
further improvements are necessary if industrial sector growth is to be
attained. These include: maintenance of a competitive exchange rate;
continued policy and regulatory reforms to encourage greater competition and
more efficient production; financial and physical restrLcturing of many large
firms in the face of a changing policy environment which better recognizes the



8
Philippines' comparative advantage in labor; expanded availability of long-
term finance; and measures to increase exports, particularly from the SMI
sector. In supporting the industrial sector, therefore, Bank assistance would
take the form of policy advice (related both to the industrial and financial
sectors), institutional support, and the transfer of term resources. Discus-
sion with the Government on broad policy issues will continue in the context
of economic and sector work, and implementation of reform measures under the
Economic Recovery Loan (Loan 2788 of 3/30/87). Proposed industrial projects
would also address continuing export policy and administration issues as well
as constraints on the development of micro-enterprises.
1.23     The proposed SMI IV Project is a follow-up to three previous projects
(Loans 1120-PH, 1727-PH and 2169-PH) designed to promote the development of
the SMI sector. All these loans have been fully disbursed, Project Completion
Reports (dated June 17, 1981 and October 6, 1988, respectively), have been
prepared for the first two loans and a Projeit Performance Audit Report for
the first loan (PPARI 3696 dated June 16, 1982). Under these projects, the
Bank approved US$187 million 1/ for assistance to the sector. All three loans
concentrated on providing finance to SMI through IGLF and DBP, and also
contained technical assistance components. Due to inherent institution-wide
weaknesses and poor financial performance in the Development Bank of the
Philippines, most of the US$48 million allocated to DBP under the SMI III
project was cancelled. In addition, US$6.7 million of the funds allocated to
IGLF from the Third SMI loan was cancelled due to rtduced demand for IGLF
funds. This lower than expected demand was brought about by a combination of
reduced borrowing by end-users due to political uncertainties and higher than
market interest rates charged by IGLF to the PFIs (during the mid-1980s the
average cost of deposits in the PFIs was lower than the cost of IGLF money).
Apart from the reduced demand for IGLF funds in 1986 and 1987, the :redit
components of the SMI projects have generally performed well and achieved
their objectives in terms of channeling substantial credit to SMIs, increasing
the number of financial institutions participating in the program and
operating with low arrears and high collection ratios from both the PFI's and
end-users. However the sub-loan pricing mechanism adopted under these
projects has not been fully satisfactory. Under these projects, PFIs were
charged fixed interest rates which were based on the cost of funds from the
Bank and 3 predetermined spread. However with the liberalization of interest
rates in the past few years, IGLF's interest rates quickly become out-of-line
with market conditions, causing distortions which could not easily or quickly
be alleviated. The proposed Project incorporates changes in interest rate
policy to remedy past problems. The quantitative impact of the Bank's lending
to the SMI sector is given in Table 1.2 below:
1/This amount is prior to cancellations and does not iiicluie an
additional $56.9 million which was made available to DBP for SMI lending under
Loans 1190-PH and 1572-PH.



9
Table 1.2: IMPACT OF SANK SMI LENDING
Loan     Numr of   Total sub-   Incremntal Cost per
aount    eubprojecte project cost  employmnt    job
Loan                (USS million) financed   (USS million)  geerated   (US1)
SMI I (Loan 1120-PH)   80.0        t01        60.1        17,968     8,850
SM! II (Loon 1727-PH)  26.0        264         56.0       10,497     5,886
SMI III (Loan 2169-PH)/a 152.0    2100        273.0           -          -
a/ The  numbers shown here for SMI III are from the Staff Appraisal
Report. Of the original loan amount, US$64.6 million was canceled.
1.24     The technical assistance components of the first two SKI projects
were relatively small and restricted to helping defray some of the operating
and capital costs of DTI's developing extension program for SHI. Under the
SMI III project, the technical assistance component was substantially expanded
both in scope and cost, and included training of DTI staff SMI industry group,
provision of required vehicles, equipment, and reference libraries, pilot
projects for common facilities and new technologies and SMI subsector-related
studies.
2 .25    IFC has supported the SMI sector by financing four projects:  a
leasing company aimed at assisting SMI; a venture capital fund which invests
largely in light manufacturing firms, including SMI; a debt-equity swap fund
which invests in Philippine businesses, including SMI; and an agricultural
development bank subsidiary of a commercial bank which invests in agribusinese
opportunities.
II.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives
2.1      The basic objective of the proposed Project is to provide employment
opportunities, improve income distribution and regional development, and
provide a catalyst for promoting general economic growth and exports. The
proposed Project specificall" would help to ensure that: (a) long-term
resources continue to be available for long-term financing needs of the SMI
sector; (b) the access of SMI firms to finance is improved by strengthening
the IGLF guarantee; (c) short-term pre-shipment export finance, along with a
strong pre-shipment export finance guarantee, becomes more widely available to
direct and indirect SMI exporters; (d) SMI exporters have improved access to
inputs at world prices chrough streamlined and simplified duty drawback and
exemption systems and he;:er access to common bonded warehouses; (e) the
effectiveness of technical assistance delivered by DTI is improved by better
focusing it on the needs of growth and export-oriented firms; and (f)
institutional and policy reforms related to SMI exporters are identified and
designed.



10
B.  Project Description
2.2      The proposed Project would have the following components:   (a) a line
of credit (comprising 99Z of total project cost) to IGLF to support SMI long-
term investment and short-term export financing needs during 1989-1991; (b) an
Export Component, which would provide equipment and related services, training
and administrative costs, credit and consultancy assistance to improve the
access of SMI exporters to duty drawback/exemption, export finance/guarantee
and marketing assistance and trade information sezvices; and (c) a DTI Support
Component, which would provide training and equipment to strengthen DTI's
regional offices and technical assistance for policy formulation and program
design in export and industrial development.
C. Credit Component
The IGLF Program
2.3      The IGLF Program, established in 1952, is owned by the National
Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and administered by the Department of
Loans and Credit (DLC) of the Central Bank of the Philippines (CB). IGLF
operates as an apex unit with the basic objective of providing resources to
financial institutions for on-lending to SMI. This rediscount mechanism
enables the IGLF program to have a wide geographical reach, since many of the
institutions have an extensive regional branch network. Decisions on policy
issues affecting IGLF's operations are made by a ministerial and deputy
ministerial interagency Review Committee (RC), which is chaired by NEDA and
includes representatives from CB, DTI, Department of Finat.ce and UP-ISSI.
2.4      Under the IGLF accreditation scheme, IGLF approves participation in
the program of specific financial institutions and then delegates all subloan
appraisal and supervision responsibilities to those accredited financial
institutions. Before granting accreditation status, IGLF undertakes a
thorough review of the institution to determine its overall financial
viability and the adequacy of its staff to implement an SMI lending program.
The performance of each accredited institution is reviewed annually by IGLF
and the Bank is informed of the findings of these reviews. At year end 1987,
the IGLF program included 31 accredited financial institutions, of which 14
were commercial banks, 3 were savings/mortgage banks and 14 wl?re private
development banks (PDBs), nonbank financial intermediaries (NEFI), or
specialized government banks. The accredited institutions operate a total of
1,074 branches throughout every region of the Philippines. Of the 31
accredited institutions, 10 were particularly active and accounted for 72Z (by
amount) of IGLF loans outstanding as of December 31, 1987. Commercial banks
accounted for 32Z of IGLF's total 1987 loan approvals, while nonbank financial
intermediaries accounted for 23Z. private development banks for 42Z, and other
financial institutions--such as savings and mortgage banks--for 3Z of
approvals (Annex 2).
2.5    Because IGLF's emphasis is on accrediting and monitoring financial
institutions, rather than approving individual subloans, it has well-defined
approaches for both accreditation and supervision of PFIs. Both processes



start with Central Bank review information, which then is supplemented with
extensive additional information on PFI organization, staff, financial
strength, collection ratios and SMI lending experience. IGLF offers a course
and detailed guidebook for examiners conducting both pre-accreditation
appraisals and annual performance reviews of the participating financial
institutions. rhe guidebook, together with a representative performance
review report, is included in the Project File, I-C). The examinations
themselves focus on the institutions': (a) overall performance and financial
position; (b) managerial and organizational structure; and (c) operational
polices and procedures.   The guidebook, together with a representative
performance review report is included in the Project File, I-C. If the
examiner recommends that accreditation be suspended or if, apart from the
annual supervision, it becomes apparent that the PFI has an unacceptable
arrears position with IGLF, IGLF rescinds the accreditation and stops re-
discounting loans to the institution. In the event of unacceptable arrears,
after giving notice to the PFI, IGLF moves directly to obtain payment on its
loans by debiting the PFI's deposits with the Central Bank.
2.6       IGLF also has a small sponsorship program for rural banks, under
which it becomes more actively involved in the credit evaluation of the end-
user. While the PFIs under the sponsorship scheme still take the credit risk,
their inadequate analytical capabilities necessitate a detailed review of the
subloans by IGLF staff prior to rediscounting. Since the rural banks would
not otherwise qualify for the IGLF program, the sponsorship scheme enables
IGLF to promote industrial growth outside Metro-Manila and to contribute to
development in rural areas. The sponsorship scheme, which acccunted for only
1Z of the total IGLF portfolio in 1987, is not financed under the proposed
Project.
2.7      The parJicipating financial institutions (PFIs) are free to select
their own projects for financing, with IGLF financing assured if the project
meets broad eligibility criteria (appropriate asset size, acceptable financial
position and credit-rating, etc). Full repayment rests with the PFI unless
the loan also carries an IGLF guarantee. Accordingly, the risk to IGLF is
limited to insolvency or inability to repay of the PFI; it does not include
default by the end-user, which would mean a loss to the PFI but not to IGLF.
Operating Policies and Procedures
2.8        IGLF's basic policies concerning its operations and relationship
with accredited institutions. as well as the administrative details on its
lending policies, are incorporated into a Policy Manual, which is approved by
the Review Committee and periodically up-dated to reflect policy change.
Policy alterations to be incorporated under this loan are outlined below
(pazagraphs 2.9 to 2.30), and will be published in a revised Policy Manual as
a condition of loan effectiveness. Kev policy covenants, discussed below,
include arrangements regarding maximum size of firms eligible for IGLF funding
and maximum subloan amount (para. 2.9); compliance with environmental laws and
regulations (para. 2.12); interest rates from IGLF to the participating
financial institutions (paras. 2.16, 2.19 and 2.22); interest rates to be
charged to end-users (para. 2.20); foreign exchange reserve account (para.
2.21); credit risk assumed by the PFIs (para. 2.20); operating policies



12
relating to the IGLF export pre-shipment window (para. 2.29 and 2.30); and
financial analysis of subloans (para. 3.11).
Eligibility for IGLF Loans
2.9      Cottage, small and medium scale industries in manufacturing and
related service sectors are eligible for IGLF loans. Companies with total
assets (before financing) of between 950,000 and P20 million may qualify for
the loans, so long as they are manufacturing concerns or service industries
supportive of manufacturing actizities (such as warehousing, machine shops,
and mining enterprises), and are financially viable institutions with
debt/equity ratios not exceeding 80/20. (The list of eligible industries is
included in the Project File, I-M.) Maximum loans under the accreditation
scheme are 90.4 million for cottage industry (with assets of 950,000 to
P500,000), 94.0 million for small industry (with assets of P500,000 to P5.0
million), and P20.0 million for medium industry (with assets of P5.0 to P20.0
million). Loans are made for fixed assets (for a maximum of 12 years
inclusive of 3 years grace), permanent working capital (for a maximum of 7
years inclusive of 2 years grace), and export packing credit (for a maximum of
180 days).
Past Performance of IGLF
2.10     Lending through IGLF accredited in-titutions has been relatively
successful in terms of the level of disbursements and repayments achieved.
IGLF loan approvals increased steadily from 929 million in 1976 to 9188
million in 1982 to an estimated P1500 million in 1988, for an annual average
growth of 162 (in real terms) over the 1976 to 1988 period. Arrears between
sub-borrowers and PFIs under the accreditation scheme averaged 4.2Z from
1982-86. Loans affected by arrears were 23Z by number and 16Z by amount.
Although in 1987 the arrearage rate jumped substantially to 9.4Z, the increase
can be almost entirely explained by the large decrease in IGLF's outstanding
portfolio resulting from high levels of prepayments and reduced amounts of new
loans in 1986 and 1987 caused by higher-than-market IGLF interest rates. Of
the arrears at year end 1988, 372 were less than one year past due, while 562
were over two years past due. With regard to payments by the PFIS to IGLF, as
of December 31, 1987 arrears amounted to 6.5Z of loans outstanding (Annex 2).
As a result of the subsequent expansion of the pcnrtfoio, arrears fell to less
than 2% by year end 1988.
2.11     IGLF lending in 1987 was largely (about 762) to .uedium-sized
industries; cottage industries accounted for less than 1Z of approvals and
small-scale industries for 232. This distribution. while not in keeping with
the size structure of the SMI sector (para. 1.5). indicates that the PFIs are
directing their efforts to the larger end of the SMI spectrum: those
businesses that generally have a track record, some collateral and the ability
to present a business plan to the banks. Given that cottage and smaller SMI
would very often require greater information gathering and supervision efforts
on the part of the PFI, generally lack collateral, management abilities and
financial statements, and historically have suffered generally higher rates
of default, PFIs are less eager to lend to these borrowers.



13
2.12      IGLF-furded projects have tended to be in labor-intensive
manufacturing industries, although some construction, tourism and service
industries have also been financed. In 1987, the manufacturing sector
accounted for 98t of approvals, with the more important subsectors being
apparel/ footwear/ garments, food and food products and metal products
(Annex 2).  In light of potential environmental effects by some of the
industries funded by IGLF loans,  IGLF will specify  that sub-borrowcers shall
comply with all laws and regulations of the Philippines related to
environmental protection, and specifically that they shall comply with P.D.
1067 Water Code 1976, and P.D. 1152 Environmental Code 1977.
2.13     Whereas before 1984, IGLF loans were largely for financing fixed
assets, more recently the" have been focused on permanent working capital. In
1983, 75Z of the loans were for fixed assets and 25Z for permanent working
capita;, while in 1987 the numbers changed to 372 for fixed assets and 63Z for
permanent working capital.  The mix changed when high interest rates and
political turmoil discouraged businesses from assuming long-term
obligations for new capital investment. Prepayments in 1986 and 1987
encouraged the trend, since the businesses were able to re-finance working
capital loans but not fixed asset loans (IGLF prohibits re-financing and can
monitor this most effectively when specific long-term assets are designated
for financing).
2.14      In terms of regional distribution, IGLF has funded loans in all
regions of the Philippines. It is represented throughout the provinces by
its PFIs, which collectively have at least 15 branches in each region of the
country. Fifty-onte percent of the PFI branches are located outside Metro-
Manila. In 1987, IGLF loans were extended in every region except Cagayan
Valley and Western Mindanao, with the greatest number and amount of loans
going to Metro-Manila, Central Luzon, Northern Mindanao, Central Visayas and
Southern Tagalog. Total amounts of IGLF lending in the regions remain limited
however, inspite of the PFI distribution system. As noted below (para. 2.22),
loans outside the three most industrial regions totalled only 7Z of the IGLF
portfolio in 1987.
Interest Rates
2.15     Under the SMI III loan, interest rates charged by IGLF to the PFIs
were set at lZ for cottage and small industry and 16? for medium industry
loans. Pre-determined spreads of 7Z and 5? for small and medium industry
loans, respectively, brought the final end-user rates to 18Z and 21?.
Although it was agreed under the Bank loan that the rates and spreads would be
reviewed by the Government periodically to ensure that they reflected market
conditions, in practice the rates were adjusted too slowly.  When the average
interest rate for all loans made by commercial banks was 21Z in early 1985,
the 18Z IGLF loans were understandably popular.  However, with market rates
falling to 142 in late 1986 and early 1987, IGLF funds were over-priced and
unused. No' only did IGLF releases fall by 642 in 1986, but extensive pre-
payments of outstanding loans reduced the overall portfolio by 28Z (from
P1,462 million to P1,057 million). Although releases increased in the second
half of 1987, continuing prepayments in the first six months were enough to
reduce the outstanding portfolio by another 272 (to P770.9 million).



14
2.16     It was agreed in March 1987 that IGLF interest rates should be more
market-determined. PFI lending rates were deregulated, with the PFIs being
allowed to set their own interest charges to subborrowers. The IGLF interest
rate to the PFIs wes reduced to 10.2Z, E.ccording to a newly-adopted formula
that set the price of funds as the higher of (a) the weighted average cost of
all deposits in the Philippine banking system or (b) IGLF's total costs,
including its administrative costs and its total cost of money (sourced from
the Bank and from interest free budgetary transfers from the Government),
with a 3-7Z p.a. foreign exchange premium added on funds borrowed from the
Bank. In practice, there has been considerable ambiguity over exactly how to
measure IGLF costs of funds and a wide range of estimates have been prepared.
Interest rates on IGLF funds to the PFIs are determined by the IGLF Review
Committee on a semi-annual basis.
2.17     Under the proposed Project, the price of IGLF loans to the PFIs will
be pegged to prevailing domestic interest rates and not at IGLF's cost of
funds. Since SMI loans ate in domestic currency (reflecting the typical
financing requirements of the SMI sector) and interest rates in the
Philippines are not regulated (since 1980, when they were deregulated, they
have been positive except for a few short periods of high inflation in late
1984 and early 1985), linking the on-lending rates to local market conditions
is appropriate. Tying tle IGLF interest rate to prevailing domestic interest
rates will reduce fluctuations in demand stemming from misalignment of IGLF
and other domestic market rates. .t will also ensure that IGLF money does not
substitute for domestic resource mobilization by the PFIs. Such a formulation
would further provide reasonable protection to IGLF for foreign exchange risk
since domestic interest rates in the Philippines, being market determined,
incorporate much of the exchange risk emanating from differential
international and domesti. inflation.
2.18     In the past, the IGLF interest rate to both PFIs and end-users has
been a fixed rate throughout the period of the loan.  For the proposed loan,
IGLF will provide an option to PFI's and end-users between an interest rate
fixed for five years and a floating interest rate to be adjusted every six
months according to market movements.  Limiting the term for which the rate is
fixed and introducing a variable rate alternative would eliminate the
distortions and volatility that can occur under a long-term fixed rate system-
-prepayments when fixed rates are higher than current marke~t rates and
subsidies when fixed rates are lower. It would also provide IGLFIGovernment
with much greater protection from the foreign exchange and interest rate risks
which are assumed under World Bank, Asian Development Bank (ADB), and ASEAN
Japan Development Fund (AJDF) loans. Since the PFIs indicate that SMI
borrowers might be reluctant to borrow pure floating rate loans, an interest
rate cap would also be introduced to limit the extent to which the interest
rates float. IGLF portfolio managers in the PFIs indicate that a I% per
semester cap on interest rate movements would make a floating rate more
acceptable to end-users, and that such limited interest rate movements cou1
be budgeted and planned for by SMI borrowers.   Under the floating rate
scheme, new loans would be initiated at the rates effective at loan signing
and then could be adjusted upwards by no more than 1% per semester. If
interest rates increase dramatically or become highly volatile during the
project period, the appropriateness of the cap would be reJieded.



15
2.19     Under either the fixed rate or variable rate options, the rates of
the IGLF loans would approx4.mate the cost to the YFI's of borrowing funds of a
similar maturity in the market.   Under the fixed rate option, the rate to the
PFI's would be set equal to the weighted average interest rate on all time
deposits of over two year maturities. The rate would be fixed for five years
after which the borrower could renew at fixed or variable rates for the
remainder of the loan. Under the variable rate option, the rate would be set
at the weighted average interest rate of all time deposits with maturities of
six months or less. It would be adjusted every six months subject to a cap of
12 per adjustment. The initial rate offered under both approaches would be
determined each six months according to rates prevailing during the previous
semester.   Applying these formulas for the second half of 1988 would have
generated a five year fixed rate for that period of 13.0%, and an initial
variable rate of 10.7Z.
2.20     Under the Proiect the policy of allowing the PFTs to set their own
lending rates and hence their spreads will be conti,LLled. This approach
ensures that IGLF lending is market oriented, and also is in keeping with the
current policy for the Agricultural Loan Fund, which specifies that final
lending rates to subborrowers and, hence, spreads to the PFIb, would be
determined by the PFI rather than established by the Review Committee. This
encourages the PFIs to lend more actively to cottage, small scale and regional
SMI by allowing them to charge rates reflective of the higher processing costs
and higher perceived risk of lending to thic SMI segment. As is currently the
situation, the PFIs will continue to take the credit risk on their IGLF-funded
loans to end users.
2.21     Although the foreigr exchange risk on the World Bank, ADB, and AJDF
loans would be borne by the Government (or IGLF), the interest rate at which
IGLF would relend to the PFIs would compensate for this foreign exchange risk
to a significant extent, given the Philippines' liberalized interest rate
policy and relatively open capital market. Over the long run, much of the
gain and loss related to foreigxL exchange risk should balance out. To reflect
the foreign exchange risk incurred, it was agreed during negotiations that
IGLF will establish an equity reserve account in which the differential
between IGLF lending and borrowing rates for foreign currency financed
subloans, less proportionate administrative fees, will be accumulated.
2.22     Preferential Rate for Selected Regions.  Demand for IGLF funds
outside of Metro-Manila, Central Luzon and Central Visayas has been limited
due to general economic conditions in the regions. Total IGLF lending outside
the three major provinces in 1987 amounted to only 7% of total IGLF loan
releases, as compared with a 22% average over the preceding five-year period.
While political turmoil in the regions seems to be an important reason for the
decline in IGLF lending, higher processing costs of regional financial
intermediaries also make lending to those areas less attractive. Accordingly,
the Government proposed that for loans made outside of Regions III, IV and VII
(excluding a few specific depressed provinces within those regions), a rate
reduction of up to 22 on average or up to 3Z for specific regions may be
offered. This rate reduction is intended to remain in effect only until a
more effective IGLF credit guarantee mechanism is establishedi ro encourage
greater regional lending through risk sharing.   The preferentLal rate will be



16
limited to the designated regions and amounts. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the scheme will be reviewed by IGLF after one year (not later than
June 30, 1990) and a plan will be adopted to phase out the subsidy once
proposals to strengthen the guarantee are implemented (but not later than June
30, 1991).
2.23     Demand for IGLF Funds.  Demand for IGLF loans declined significantly
in 1986 and early 1987, reflecting the political instability of that period
and above-market IGLF interest rates. However, during 1987 there was a nmajor
recovery with releases climbing from an average of P7 million per month dtvring
the first half of the year to P100 million in December. Releases were
sustained at this level during 1988 and are estimated to have reached P1500
million for the year as a whole. Based on this performance and on bankers'
expectations of continued strong demand for business loans, IGLF releases are
forecast to remain at about this level through 1989 and to increase in nominal
terms by 13Z (4Z real) per year from 1989 through 1992. This projected 42
real growth is conservative in comparison with the past growth of IGLF which
averaged 6.5% since 1980.
2.24     PFI Share of Term Loans.  Under the first three SMI projects, the
IGLF program provided 10OZ rediscount to PFIs, as a means of demonstrating to
the PFIs that the risks associated with SMI lending were manageable and that
SMI lend.4ig was financially viable. Now that the IGLF program is widely
accepted by the  banking sector, and in view of the proposed streng  2ning of
the IGLF guarantee, it is apnropriate to reduce the level of rediscount.
Under the proposed Project, the PFIs will be required to finance at least 102
of each subloan with their own resources; IGLF's rediscounting of term
loans will therefore be limited to 902. Representatives of the PFIs have
indicated that this level of internal funding should be feasible and would not
detract from their use of the IGLF facility. The requirement should stimulate
PFIs to generate term resources and increase term transformation.
2.25     IGLF Guarantee.  In addition to providing funding to accredited
institutions through its rediscount of SMI loans, IGLF also offers guarantees
for loans implemented under the program. It provides two types of loan
guarantees: the collateral short guarant?e, which is available for cottage
and small industry loans and covers the actual collateral deficiency up to 25Z
of the loan amount; and the credit risk guarantee, which is available for
cottage, small and medium industry loans and covers a fixed percentage of the
loan amount outstanding but cannot exceed 80% for cottage and small industry
loans or 50Z for medium industry loans. A 2Z p.a. guarantee fee is charged
for the guarantees. IGLF sets aside as annual provisions an amount equivalent
to the guarantee fees collected during the year and projected losses for the
coming year based on an account-by-account analysis of IGLF's portfolio in
arrears.
2.26     While the credit-risk guarantee was at first mandatory for all IGLF
sebloans, it became optional under the SMI II project and since then has been
used very infrequently. At present less than 1OZ of loans have guarantee
coverage. Discussions with the PFIs reveal concerns with: 1) the level of
coverage, 2) provisicns for guarantee cancellations, over which the PFIs may
have little control, and 3) disputes as to adequate  performance by the PFI in



17
compliance with guarantee requirements. But the critical deterrent to usage
is the clsim procedure. This provides that before IGLF will process a clAim
for payment, the bank must exhaust all means and actions to recover the loss,
including foreclosure and liquidation of collateral. Legal foreclosure on
real assets can take 2-4 years, and only upon completion of this phase does
IGLF forego further interest charges on its loan to the PFI. Liquidation of
resulting assets can run another 2-3 years, only at which time can the actual
amount of loss be determined and the claim paid by IGLF. A period of 5 years
or more for claim settlement renders the guarantee uneconomic and ineffective.
2.27     Given the inherent riskiness of lending to SMIs, their lack of
collateral, and the administrative costs of credit evaluation, there appears
to be good justification to strengthen the IGLF guarantee. In this regard,
significant changes will thave to be made in order to generate acceptance in
the banking community. These include: (a) revising the grounds for guarantee
cancellation, making them explicit as to fault of the bank; and (b) amending
the claim procedure to provide timely payments of designated losses.
A detailed technical report on these issues was discussed with Government
during appraisal and is available in the Project File (I-I). During
negc iations it was agreed that measures necessary to make tne guarantee
effective and an implementation schedule will be prepared and submitted to the
Bank by June 30, 1990.
2.28     Export Pre-Shipment Facility.  In addition to its term lending, IGLF
provides short-term pre-shipment financing for exports, a facility which it
initiated in late 1987. The facility is not yet well utilized. Through the
first quarter of 1988, the pre-shipment facility accounted for only about 5S
of all IGLF releases.
2.29     Since the IGLF rediscount window for working capital to export-
oriented firms is only one of two windows operated by the Central Bank for
this purpose. it is proposed that IGLF's window be priced separately from the
rest of IGLF. Specifically, under the Project it was agreed that IGLF export
loans would genetally bear the same interest rate as the pre-shipment facility
under the Central bank's general rediscount window. Otherwise, there could be
destabilizing shifts from one window o the other to exploit interest rate
differentials.  More generally, it is recommended tnat the CB consider
consolidating the two export windows and operate it outside of the
restrictions of monetary control for overall banking liquidity (this issue is
addressed in the recently completed Financial Sector Report and will be
followed up in a proposed export loan).
2.30     In addition to aligning the rates of the two windows, IGLF will fix
the interest rate for the life of each pre-shipment loan. Since the loans are
very short term, interest rate changes would be relatively minor anyway and
are burdensome to banks and borrowers. Under the Project it was also agreed
that IGLF would continue to rediscount 1002 of pre-shipment loans under this
facility.
2.31     IC-LF Organization and Staff.  IGLF's organization has four operat4ng
divisions, the major responsibilities of which are: (a) institutional
appraisal of accredited institutions; (b) desk processing of loan applications



18
and the servicing of guarantees; (c) servicing of all loan accounts; and (d)
undertaking studies related to the IGLF program. The organization structure
showing staff allocation is given in Annex 2.
2.32      IGLF staff are currently trained in project evaluation aiid follow-up.
Staff responsible for monitoring the institutional capabilities of the
participating institutions are given special institutional evaluation
training. IGLF's management, in conjunction with the CB's training institute
and other outside training agencies, have developed suitable courses. In
addition to the training needs of IGLF's own staff, the training requirements
of the accredited inatitutions' staff have also been taken into account. IGLF
sponsored a UP-ISSI course on SMI lending .-or the staff of participating
'nstitutions in June 1988 and will be sponsoring further courses in 1989.
ADB, which is cofinancing the Credit Component of the Project, will also
provide funds for the continued training and upgrading of IGLF staff.
2.33      In the context of the reforms of the financial sector currently being
contemplated by the Government, it has been recommended that the Central Bank
phase out all the various long-term credit programs operated by it. In this
regard, it is proposed that IGLF be transferred from the Central Bank to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), which is intended to become a
largely wholesale institution administering a variety of apex funds and
eventually mobilizing domestic long term resources. It is estimated that the
transfer would take place during the implementation period of the loan.
During regotiations an understanding was reached that a detailed plan for the
transfer -will be worked out and agreed between the Bank and the Government
before the transfer occurs.
2.34     IGLF Project Supervision.  While the accredited institutions are
primarily responsible for project 3upervision, IGLF staff have routinely
conducted end-use project verifications to guard against diversion of funds.
In addition, when IGLF conducts its annual review of accredited institutions,
it visits 232 of the subprojects financed to ensure that funds have been
properly utilized. Every year a performance review is carried out for each
active PFI. Wnile these examinations make use, where possible, of Central
Bank supervision data, the reviews go further to analyze the IGLF portfolio
and look specifically at the collection ratios of the PFIs, as well as to
assess staff qualifications and overall bank lending procedures. IGLF has 16
examiners for this purpose and for end-use verification. In addition, IGLF
requires that all sccredited institutions have independent auditors review
annually their IGLF portfolio aid report their findings to IGLF.
2.35     IGLF Financial Position and Performance.  IGLF's total assets
increased at an average of 31Z per year between 1982 and 1987. This asset
growth was almost entirely financed by drawdowns on previous Bank loans (Loans
1120-PH, 1727-PH and 2169-PH) and Government counterpart funds. Although
IGLF's net income increased at an average of 232 p.a. over the past five years
and stood at P48 million in 1987, it; net income to average total assets ratio
declined from 3.3Z in 1982 to 2.3Z in 1987. This was caused largply by the
increase in interest expenses resulting from a higher interest rate on the
World Bank SMI III loan (11.62 compared with interest rates of 8.5% and 7.9Z
for SMI I and II). The increased interest rate caused IGLF's financial



19
expenses as a percentage of average total assets to rise from 4.82 to 6.42
over the five year period (Annex 2). IGLF's sources of income are interest
income on loans, interest income on temporary it;vestments and guarantee fees.
Although interest on IGLF's loans was the largest contribution to gross income
for the 1982-86 period, reduced demand for IGLF funds, as well as substantial
end-user prepayments, caused income from short-term investments to exceed
interest income in 1987. The short-term funds are expected to decline
significantly in 1988 as they are used for term financing. IGLF's
administrative costs as a percent of average total costs declined from 0.82 to
0.42 in 1987. IGLF will continue to be financially strong through the project
period, with net income (before provisions for foreign exchange losses) as a
percentage of average total assets remaining at about 22 through 1992.
D. Export Component
2.36    The Export Component would support programs and address deficiencies
in the export framework that are particularly important for SMI exporters.
Specifically, the component would provide equipment, technical assistance,
loan financing, training, and administrative expenses to: (a) improve SMI
access to export financing by expanding and strengthening the pre-shipment
guarantee facility; (bI improve SMI exporters' access to inputs on a duty free
basis by standardizing and computerizing the duty drawback/exemption scheme;
and (c) strengthening export marketing by continuing priority programs of
marketing assistance to SMK firms and by improving the trade information
services of DTI.
Pre-shipment Export Guarantee
2.37     As noted above (para 1.17), small and new exporters experience
considerable difficulty in obtaining pre-shipment export loans. This largely
reflects the banks' practice of relating loan amounts to the value of
physical collateral (usually real estate mortgages) or giving credit lines
only to exporters with well-established track records, even if they otherwise
have L/Cs or purchase orders. The unwillingness or inability of banks to
assess properly or to bear risk profiles of small or new exporters, and the
lack of risk sharing mechanisms indicate the need for an effective export
finance guarantee scheme.
2.38     The Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation
(Philguarantee) has legal authority to conduct such business.   However, its
financial difficulties resulting from its overseas operations in the early
1980s have severely restricted Philguarantee's present scope of operations.
Only a very few (about 20) exporters are presently covered with pre-shipment
credit guarantees.
2.39     An effective and expanded guarantee coverage is essential to expand
the access of SMI exporters to needed finance. Philguarantee appears from an
institutional viewpoint to be in the best position on which to build an
effective guarantee facility. Not only is Philguarantee already in
the business (in a small way) but it also has the staff and legal authority to
undertake this function.



20
2.40     To expand rapidly the pre-shipment guarantee cover without taking
large and undue risks, Philguarantee  should establish two new policies:   (a)
a whole turnover policy for accredited banks and (b) a line of credit policy
for approved exporters. These would be in addition to the current ad hoc
export order policy. The specifics of these new policy approaches are
outlined in the Project File (I-I). These additional policy options would
provide a guarantee for all or a designated share of the pre-shipment loans of
accredited banks or accredited exporters. As such they would not be subject
to "adverse selection" which is typical of the current case-by-case approach.
Accordingly, Philguarantee would manage a risk portfolio on which it would
assume a certain percentage of defaults and charge fees accordingly. The
approach of pre-approving limits for exporters would also enable Philguarantee
to become a more active participar in assisting SMI firms obtain finance.
Through this program Philguarantee would develop a useful data base on the
export community, which could be shared with the benks as well as assist in
designating risk-reduction measures for SMI exporte-s. Under the proposed
Project, the technical assistance (15 staff months), computer hardware and
software, and training needed to implement this approach will be provided.
The cost is estimated at US$0.4 million. Terms of reference were reviewed and
agreed at negotiations.
2.41     If these new approaches prove effective as a way of increasing the
coverage of SMI exporters, Philguarantee would need to be recapitalized and
reorganized in order to achieve a reasonable level of exporter -overage over
the medium term. In this regard, Philguarantee's approval of this approach
was confirmed during negotiations and an understanding reached that one year
after implementing these new initiatives, Philguarantees' Board would review
the need and options for recapitalizing and restructuring Philguarantee as a
basis for positioning Philguarantee as an important supporting player in
export finance in the Philippines.
Access to Inputs
2.42     Assuring free access to intermediate inputs at world market prices is
one of the most important components of export promotion which all successful
exporting countries, both developed and developing, adopt. The Philippines
has been operating several schemes to provide duty free imports of inputs:
these include export processing zones, a bonded manuf..cturing warehouse
scheme, a duty exemption scheme, and individual and fixed-rate duty drawback
schemes. Despite their existence and continued improvement, however, these
schemes still contain important deficiencies that need to be remedied if the
Philippines' export potential is to be realized. It has been estimated that
about 20% of exporters and 45% of export value are covered by some form of
duty exemption/drawback scheme. If traditional exports are excluded, the
coverage rises to about 55-60Z. We can infer from these statistics that most
of the big exporters/producers may be covered in some form, and that many SHI
exporters and most indirect exporters are not covered, and therefore their
export growth is inhibited. In addition to deficiencies in coverage,
bureaucratic complexities and delays impose significant costs on exporters
that are covered.



21
2.44     In this regard, a program of measures is needed to expand the
coverage and improve the operational efficiency of the drawback/exemption
system.  Briefly this would include measures to: (a) modify the design of duty
drawback schemes (DDS) to improve the coverage in line with the needs of all
expurters.  Special attention should be paid  to SMI and indirect exporters
who are not well covered under the existing system; (b) simplify DDS
operational procedures and adopt a technically efficient control mechanism;
(c) improve technical efficiency of the DDS operation by adopting standardized
formulas of manufacture; and, (d) establish a Duty Drawback and Exemption
Coordinating Committee to oversee the implementation of the reform program.
2.45     The details of these proposals are set forth in the Project File (II-
B, "Philippines Reform of Duty Drawback/Exemption System"). The Government is
aware of the deficiencies of the current system and during project preparation
*        established the needed Coordinating Committee, recommended above, to oversee
*        design and implementation of an improved DDS.  Further, a detailed consultant
report has been prepared on the standardization and computerization of the
duty drawback exemption program (the details are in the Project File (I-K," A
Detailed Plan for the Computerization of DDS," October 17, 1988). During
appraisal, agreement was reached with the DTI and the Interagency Coordinating
Committee to implement this plan. During negotiations an understanding was
reached that there is full interagency agreement to implement this plan.
2.46     In addition, DTI is considering further reforms to simDlify the
overall design and increase coverage of the system, which could be
incorporated in proposed omnibus export legislation.   During appraisal it was
agreed with DTI to include in the proposed Project the necessary technical
assistance to design such reforms. The terms of reference for this study were
reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
2.47     To support such measures, the Project would provide financial
support for:
(a)  the hardware and software needs to standa:dize the formula of
manufacture and to computerize the operation of duty drawback/
exemption. This would involve ITDI, BOC, GTEB and BOI. The cost is
estimated at US$0.3 million; and
(b)  the training and technical assistance requirements to BOC, ITDI, BETP
and other agencies to implement an improved duty drawback/exemption
and BMW operation.  This would include design of   overall reform
measures, supervision of implementation, standardization of the
formula of manufacture, setting of fixed rate DDS, and
reconciliation (liquidation) of imported inputs and export products.
This would require about 27 months of tecbnical consultants with
expertise in drawback schemes, formula setting and computer systems
analysis. In addition, this subcomponent would als include field
trips for key personnel to countries that have demonstrated success
in this field, training in software usage and encoding services for
data entry. The overall cost estimate is US$0.4 million. (Details
are available in Project File, I-H);



22
2.48     Each line agency (BOC, BOI, ITDI and BETP) will implement the portion
of this sub-component under their respective functional iesponsibility.
However, the Duty Drawback Coordinating Committee, chaired by DTI, will
coordinate overall implementation of this subcomponent.
Trade Information Services
2.49     Trade information is currently available to Philippine exporters from
the library services of BETP and from the Trade and Investment Information
Center (TIIC), operated by the Office of the Secretary for Trade and Industry.
In the past, both have aimed to service the same clientele, as far as trade
information is concerned. TIIC, which has been separate from the other
services provided by DTI to exporters and, as such, not well placed to respond
sensitively to the needs of exporters, has indicated a willingness to transfer
all marketing and related information to an expanded BETP library. Although
CETP is closer to both the exporting community and the overseas markets, its
library is severely under-resourced, to the extent of relying on gifts from
embassies and international agencies for its requirements.
2.50     The needs of exporters are for accurate, selective, up-to-the-minute
information on market structures, trends, price and competition parameters and
technical requirements. An effective marketing information service will
contain up-to-date statistical intelligence, legal requirements and analytical
information; it will maintain subscriptions to the key journals relevant to
the product/market cambinations served by its clients; it will also offer
access, through directories and on-line services, to key commercial
information concerning latest research findings, potential customers,
competitors and collaborators. To accomplish this, the proposed Project would
support a substantial upgrade of BETP's market information capability in order
to meet the core needs of its clients. Under the proposed Project US$0.2
million will be included for the acquisition of library materials appropriate
to the needs of Philippine exporters. DTI is preparing a detailed costed list
of pLoposed cquisitions for the BETP library and a description of the product
market and design information needed for individual regional offices of
RDG/DTI. As an understanding was reached during negotiations that this will
be discussed with the Bank before procurement is initiated. In addition,
assistance will be provided under the Project to improve BETP's overseas
information capability through the supply of computer equipment to overseas
offices. Under the terms of a cooperation agreement with Australia, technical
assistance is being provided to develop the management and systems needs in a
selection of overseas offices. In order to assist the transfer of the new
systems to priority overseas offices, the project includes US$0.04 million to
finance personal computers and printers and modems for 10 overseas FTSC
offices.
Marketing Development
2.51     In order to compete at both the domestic and international levels,
SMI producers require more sophisticated skills of product design, production
technology, and marketing. The Marketing Development subcomponent focuses on
key deficiencies in the existing framework and proposes support for effective
ongoing programs. Specifically, the proposed Project will support the Product



23
Specialist and Domestic Trade Fairs Programs which address existing marketing
deficiencies, including passive relationship with buyers, little awareness of
market size, structure or prices and scant knowledge of the competition.
2.52     Product Specialist Program (PSP).  The increase in the level of
design awareness that has occurred in the Philippines' manufacturing community
is widely associated with the impact of this program; it is seen as a critical
vehicle for the development and maintenance of international design knowledge
and skills. The program was judged by a recent Harvard Consultant Study to be
cost effective, estimating that the net cost of the exhibitions amounted to
less than lZ of written orders received. The program is centered around a
market launch program and accordingly has a commercial orientation. The PSP
comprises a well-established sequence of activities, including the identifi-
cation of international product specialists; assessment of abilities and
market trends; the selection of program participants; evaluation of
competencies and needs; development of product designs and prototypes; and
market testing of products and subsequent market development. Each program
is focused on selected priority export subsectors and involves a careful
selection of individual participants. The program would prcvide 60 months of
short-term consultancy services plus local costs for counterpart training
workshops and exhibits. The program would assist priority subsectors over a
three year period, at an estimated cost of US$0.9 million. The Product
Development and Design Center of the Philippines (PDDCP) will have overall
responsibility for program implementation. In order to ensure that the
program is responsive to the needs of the firms, an understanding has been
reached that PSP will introduce a cost sharing formula whereby the firms will
be charged user-fees according to a specified schedule. This understanding
was confirmed during negotiations.
2.53     Domestic Fairs Program.   This program focuses on targeted
subsectors within the regions and works at the firm level to promote improved
product design and sales by regionally based manufacturers through a program
of product adaptation, market promotion, and follow-up consultancy and
advisory services. The program is organized around regional fairs at which
products are displayed for domestic and international buyers. Under the
proposed Project, the principal domestic fair showcase for regional products
with export potential will be a series of 6 Island Fairs (2 per year) which
will be supplemented by 9 regional fairs (3 per year).
2.54     The estimated cost of the program is US$0.4 million and includes fees
for short term consultants (mainly designers) as well as administrative costs.
As for the PSP program discussed above (para 2.52), an understanding on the
cost-sharing schedule under which participating firms will contribute program
revenues was confirmed at negotiations. The Bureau of Domestic Trade
Promotion (BDTP) will be responsible for implementing the program.
Overall Implementation and Coordination
2.55     As noted above (paras. 2.37 - 2.54), the various parts of the Export
Component will be implemented by the line agencies with existing functional
responsibility for each area. The Bureau of Small and Medium Busines'
Development (BSMBD) in DTI will provide overall coordination and monitoring of



24
this component, and for the subcomponents under DTI, BSMBD will also ensure
adequate and timely budgetary allocations are made and supervise procurement
and disbursement procedures.
E. DTI Support Component
2.56     This component would support DTI regional operations focused on SMI
firms as well as provide su 'nort far the design of policy measures and
programs for priority areas in the industrial sector.
Support for Regional Operations
2.57      The Regional Development Group (RDG) is one of five functional units
in the Department of Trade and Industry. Its principal focus is on small-
scale industry for which it is responsible for implementing all DTI policies,
programs and regulations throughout the country. It operates through a
network of regional and provincial offices as well as through regional
industry associations, and is supported by four specialized bureaus, including
BSMBD and BDTP. Specifically, the regional offices offer 'one-stop-shop"
service; develop sector-level r.epresentative organizations; identify training
needs and resources, and organize cost-sharing training events; channel
marketing information for firms; and develop regional marketing data and
linkages.
2.58     Against the background of the recent expansion in the regional role
of DTI, encompassing all DTI functions, the proposed Project would strengthen
the regional offices of DTI through staff training and the provision of
essential equipment and materials to support regional operations. In
particular, this component will support DTI's operations related to field
level implementation of the marketing development and trade information
services funded under the Project.
2.59     With the development proposed in Trade Information Systems (para.
2.50), training of regional office staff in the expanded library and
computerized trade information systems will be needed. At the same time, the
developing services of BETP, PTTC, PDDCP and CITEH will need to be presented
to staff in regional and provincial offices. In addition, regional industry
staff specialists will receive training in assessing the needs of businesses
to help them identify firms' needs for specialist assistance and to direct the
companies to appropriate sources. The total cost for training of regional
staff under the proposed Project will be US$0.3 million.
2.60     Equipment supporting the regional offices and their communications
links with RDG also needs to be upgraded, and is included under the Project.
Personal computers, printers, facsimile machines, and passenger vans are
included for a total cost of US$0.08 million.
Policy/Program Design Assistance
2.61     The Government is currently considering reforming export-related
policy through omnibus legislation. The proposed Project would provide an
analytical basis for drafting appropriate legislation. The work would include



25
a reassessment of the role of export processing zones estates in the
Philippines, new measures to extend the system of export finance, and the
institutional framework of direct support for exporters. The consultant
assistance to undertake these tasks is included in the Project (US$0.3
million). Terms of reference for the EPZ/Estate Study are under discussion
with Government regarding the overall scope of work to be covered. Terms of
reference for the other two studies were confirmed at negotiations.
Implementation
2.62     The Regional Operations subcomponent would be implemented by the
Bureau of Small and Medium Business Development (BSMBD). The Policy/Program
Design subcomponent would be implemented by the BETP. However, as for the
Export Component, BSMBD will provide overall coordination and monitoring,
ensure aoequate and timely budgetary allocations are made, and supervise
procurement and disbursement procedures.
F. Overall Project Costs and Financing
2.63     Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$358.7
million, of which the foreign exchange component would be US$162.1 million or
452 of the total. A summary of project costs is given in Table 2.1.
2.64     The total cost of the IGLF Credit Component of tne proposed Project
would be US$355 million and is derived from detailed operational projections
provided by IGLF for the period 1989 through 1991.21 The baseline costs of
the Export and the DTI Support Components are estimated at US$2.7 and US$0.7
million, respectively, as shown in Table 2.1 below. Cost estimates for these
components were confirmed during appraisal on the basis of feasibility and
preparation studies. The cost estimates for advisors/ experts are based on
the Bank's experience in similar projects. In total, the Project includes 103
staff-months of expatriate assistance and 22 staff-months of local assistance.
In addition to consultant costs, these components include computer hardware
and software and related costs, library materials, data encoding services,
local training costs, telecommunications equipment, vehicles, administrative
expenses relating to the trade fairs, product development prototype costs,
travel and subsistence. The IGLF credit line does not include any
contingency. Price contingencies for equipment and selected service items
have been included on the basis of an estimated increase in foreign prices of
5.3z in 1989 and 1990 and 4.12 thereafter and in local prices of 9Z in 1989
and 1990 and 8Z thereafter. Physical contingencies for these items were
negligible.
2/ These detailed projections and estimates are available in the Project
File, I-A.



26
Tablo 2.1  TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Foroign
exchange
Iill1ion               USJ MilIlon    as X of
Local  Foroign Total   Local Foreign Total  total
IQLF Credit Component       4,173.0 a,424.0 7,697.0 196.0  160.0  866.0   45.1
Export C-owpont               28.6   84.2   57.0   1.1   1.6    2.7   69.0
luty Dr*Iback (DOS)           I1 "1 171                     7    6 1    5o.n
Trade Informtion              -      4.8    4.3    -      0.2    0.2   10 .0
Export Guarantee              -      3.6    s.6    -      0.4    0.4   100.0
Product Specialist Progrom   6.4   12.6   19.2   0.8    0.6    0.9   66.7
Ooeetic Trade Fairs          s.e      -      8.6   0.4     -     0.4    0.0
OTI Su ort Co onent             6.4    3.6    15.0   0.a   0.4    0.7    67.1
Rog Wns1 ufficos Support     -El    373                                 9"W5E WT  T  U
Policy Support                2.1    4.3    e.4   0.1    0.2    0.8   60.7
Total Baseline Coste         4 203 0 3 466e.  7 6es9   196.4  162.0  535.4   46.2
Frico Continencios         4.1  354 ....L.."11                  --5"1    TI7
Total Pro]oct Coats          4,207.3 3,468.9 7,676.2 196.6  162.1  868.7   46.2
- nil
2.65     The financing plan for each component and the overall project is as
follows:
(a)  For the IGLF Credit Component, subproject sponsors would contribute
US$80 million of their own funds to assure a minimum equity level of
20Z of subproject costs. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) would
contribute US$100 million and the ASEAN Japan Development Fund
(AJDF) 3/ US$40 million to be cofinanced on a parallel basis.  The
PFIs would contribute US$28 million to assure a minimum contribution
of lOZ of subloan amount. IGLF would contribute US$47 million from
its own funds. The Bank would contribute US$60 million.
31 The ASEAN Japan Development Fund is a Japan Government initiative,
originally announced at the 1987 ASEAN Summit. It intends to make
approximately $2 billion equivalent available from OECF and the Exim Bank of
Japan for private sector use in ASEAN countriec over a 3-5 year period.
Agreements are negotiated bilaterally between the Government of Japan and the
ASEAN country governments in response to specific proposals presented by
individual ASEAN countries. The standard OECF and Exim Bank terms apply with
the mix of OECF and Exim bank money varying according to the income level of
the borrowing country. At the time of this writing, negotiations between the
Government of Japan and the Government of the Philippines for the AJDF money
are in progress.



27
(b) The Export Component, would be financed by US$ 2.9 million from the
Japan Grant Facility (JGF)4/ and US$ 0.1 from the firm beneficiaries.
(c) The DTI Support Component, would be financed by US$0.7 million from
the Japan Grant Facility (JGF).
Overall, the Bank loan of US$60 million would finance 17Z of project costs and
37Z of the estimated foreign exchange requirements. The JGF would provide
US$3.6 million on a joint financing basis; ADB and AJDF fund would provide
US$100 million and US$40 million, respectively. The participating banks would
contribute US$28 million, the pruject sponsors US$80 million, the IGLF, US$47
million, and the firm beneficiaries of technical ass3stance, US$O.1 million.
The financing arrangements for this project is shown are Table 2.2.
4/ The Japan Grant Facility (JGF) was established June 3, 1987 under an
agreement between the Government of Japan and the World Bank whereby the
Government of Japan agreed to make available grant funds on untied basis for
the purpose of (a) co-financing IBRD-supported projects and programrs, and (b)
financing technical assistance in respect of the formulation and
implementation of IBRD-supported projects and programs.   For this proposed
Project, an amount of Yen 470 million has been allocated.



28
Table 2.2: FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total          2 of Total
Credit Component                    195.0    160.0    355.0              99.4
Subloan beneficiaries              80.0       -       80.0             22.3
Participating Financial Inst.    28.0         -       28.0              7.8
IGLF                               47.0       -       47.0             13.1
ADB                                 -       100.0    100.0             27.9
ASEAN-Japan Development Fund       40.0       -        40.0            11.2
IBRD                                -        60.0     60.0             16.7
Export Component                      1.3       1.7       3.0             1.8
Japan Grant Facility                1.2       1.7       2.9             0.8
T.A. beneficiaries                  0.1       -         0.1
DTI Support Component                 0.3       0.4       0.7             0.2
Japan Grant Facility                0.3       0.4      0.7              0.2
Total                               196.6    162.1    358.7             100.0
Subloan beneficiaries              80.0       -       8n.0            22.3
T.A. beneficiaries                  0.1       -        0.1
Participating Financial Inst.    28.0         -       28.0              7.8
IGLF                               47.0       -       47.0            13.1
ADB                                 -       100.0    100.0             27.9
ASEAN-Japan Development Fund       40.0       -        40.0            11.2
Japan Grant FAcility                1.5       2.1       3.6             1.0
IBRD                                -        60.0     60.0            16.7
..negligible
- nil
2.66     Retroactive financing of up to US$6 million from the proposed Bank
loan is proposed for the Credit Component to fund IGLF loans made after
December 1, 1988. Subloans financed under retroactive financing would be
according to the terms and standards of the SMI III project.



29
III. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. Features of the Loan
Lending Arrangements
3.1      Loan Allocation.  The proposed loan of US$60.0 million equivalent
would be made to the Government of the Philippines at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and funds would be
made available to IGLF under terms and conditions similar to the Bank loan.
IGLF would bear both interest charges and commitment fees for its portion of
the loan.
3.2      Grant funds of US$3.6 million made available under the Japan Grant
Facility (JGF) would be allocated for the Export Component (US$2.9 million)
and the DTI Support Component (US$0.7 million). The Japan Grant funds would
be passed on as grants to the recipient agencies.
3.3      Loan Amortization.  Since the number of subloans expected to be
financed under tle IGLF Credit Component is quite large (para. 3.14), as in
the case of previous loans, for the sake of administrative convenience, a
fixed amortization schedule that would have the same repayment schedule as the
Bank loan is recommended for repayment to the Government by IGLF. As the
maturities of subloans to be financed will be considerably less than the 20
years allowed for repayment to the Government, IGLF will receive an excess of
repayments from borrowers over repayments to the Government. It was agreed at
negotiations that these surplus funds will remain with IGLF to be utilized for
further lending to subprojects eligible to receive Bank financing according to
the criteria established for the Project.
3.4      Interest Rate.  IGLF would on-lend the funds to accredited PFIs on
either a fixed or a variable rate basis, at the option of the borrower. Under
the fixed rate option, the rate to the PFIs would be set equal to the weighted
average interest rate during the previous six months otiL all time deposits over
two years in maturity. The rate would be fixed for five years after which the
borrower could renew at fixed or variable rates for the remainder of the loan.
Under the variable rate option, Lhe interest rate would be set semi-annually,
equivalent to the weighted average interest rate during the previous six
months on all time deposits with maturities of six months or less. The
variability of the interest rate will be limited by a cap such that the
maximum increase within a six month period would be 1Z.   The continued
appropriateness of the pricing formulas will be reviewed by Government and the
Bank throughout the commitment period. If operating experience and/or major
changes in market rates suggest that a change is prudent, the interest rates
would be revised with agreement of Government and the Bank.
3.5      on-lending Terms.  The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent by PFIs
to end-users at freely determined market rates (para. 2.20). To ensure a wide
distribution of the Project's funds, the maximum subloan size will be
P20 million (about US$935,000). For all term subloans made using Bank funds,
a minimum participation of 102 of the total :.oan amouat must be made by the



30
participating fitiancial institutioz., and a minimum equity contribution of 202
of the total project cost will be required from the entrepreneur. For working
capital loans, the maximum maturity allowed will be seven years, including a
two-year grace period. For fixed asset subloans, the maximum maturity allowed
will be 12 years, including a three-year grace period.
Procurement
3.6      As items proctired by SMI subborrowers are too low in value to justify
international compttitive bidding, IGLF will permit the continuation of
existing procurement practices by which subborrowers choose suppliers based on
the suitability of eq,lipment, local availability of spare parts/service,
efficiency and reliab4.lity, compatibility with existing equipment and price.
Under the Export and DTI Support Components, most packages are small enough
to qualify for shopping and may be procured using each subborrower's own
procedures. The Duty Drawback System hardware,software and related services
will be procured as a package using limited international bidding.
Procurement of consultants will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the use of consultants.
Disbursement
3.7      The Bank loan will finance 1002 of each IGLF subloan amount assigned
for Bank financing (expected to be about 242 of subloans financed during the
three year period). In order to ensure balanced disbursements from the loan
account of ADB, the ASEAN-Japan Development Fund, and the proposed Bank loan,
di.sbursements from the respective loan accounts shall be made in batches of
subloans with IGLF's having responsibility for ensuring that over time, the
withdr-.wals from the respective loan accounts are in conformity to the
proportionate shares of those loans which have become effective.
3.8      With regard to funds available under the Japan Grant Facility, for
equipment and materials, the Bank will disburse 1002 of foreign expenditures
for imported items, 100? of local ex-factory cost, and 800 of local
expenditures for other equipment and supplies procured locally. For servic s
under the Philguarantee and Duty Drawback subcomponents and under the DTI
component, the Bank will disburse 1002 of expenditures. For the services
under PSP and Trade Fairs subcomponents, the Bank will disburse 95? and 90% of
expenditures respectively.
3.9      Disbursements will be made against statement of expenditure for all
subloans, training and for all contracts (including consultants, technical
services, administrative and other expenses, training, equipment, and
materials) below US$100,000. A Special Account of US$ 4 million will be
established for the IGLF Credit Component. The other two components (Export
and DTI Support) will utilize our normal disbursement procedures. Withdrawal
applications for the IBRD loan and the Japan Grant Facility submitted for
these components will not be less than US$ 20,000 equivalent, irrespective of
the procedures used or currency involved.   For all subcomponents using a
statement of expendituro, adequate records of documentation will be maintained
and will be available to the Bank upon request. The loan is expected to be



31
committed and disbursed in about 4 years (Annex 4). This is somewhat faster
than the standard disbursement profile for Industrial Finance projects because
the experience under previous SMI loans indicates a minimal lag between sub-
loan commitment and disbursement and because the technical assistance elements
of the project, which are often slow disbursing, will be financed under the
Japan Grant Facility. The closing date of the loan would be December 31,
1994.
Free Limit and Subproject Review
3.10     In view of the healthy past performance of the IGLF and the very
large number of small subloans, it is proposed that there be no prior review
of subloans by the World Bank for this loan. This is a change from the SKI
III loan, which had a free limit of 94 million. During the implementation
period of SKI III (1983-86), only 7 sublosns were submitted for prior Bank
review out of a total of over 1,000 subloans approved by IGLF. Further,
IGLF's extensive attention to the appraisal capabilities of the PFIs helps
ensure adequate appraisal of subprojects. In addition, during annual PFI
reviews, IGLF does a cursory review of each subproject, looking to see that
the PFI has properly analyzed the company and its finances, the relevant
technical, market and financial aspects of the project itself. In addition
IGLF offers training programs to upgrade the skills of PFI staff. In this
context, it is felt that establisaiing prior review for a tiny fraction of
atypical (i.e., very large) subpLojects would not be the best way to continue
to upgrade the PFI appraisal capabilities. Instead, an understanding was
reached during negotiations that IGLF will set aside a random sample of 5Z of
all subloan appraisals for World Bank review during supervision missions.
3.11     The size of subloans for which FRR calculations are required would be
R5 million (about US$240,000) or more. The mandatory ERR calculation would be
dropped from this Project in view of the cost and complexity of applying
shadow prices to relatively small loans. Past IGLF experience with a mandatory
ERR does not indicate its application resulted in an improved allocation of
resources under this program.
Reporting and Audit Requirements
3.12     IGLF will submit semi-annual reports on theiL operations/activities
to the Bank on the basis of agreed formats. DTI will submit semi-annual
reports on the implementation status of the Export and DTI-Support Components.
IGLF will continue to be audited yearly by the Commission on Audit (COA),
according to the Bank's long-form audit procedures. IGLF will also require
that its accredited institutions have their IGLF portfolios audited on an
annual basis by auditors acceptable to IGLF and the findings of the audit
conveyed to IGLF within six months of each year end. DTI will maintain
separate accounts for each subcomponent which would be audited annually by the
Commission on Audit (COA). Philguarantee will be audited yearly by COA. The
audits of IGLF and DTI would include audits of the Special Account and
disbursements made under Statements of Expenditure. The audits of IGLF,
Philguarantee and DTI would be submitted to the Bank with any comments or
findings of the auditor within six months of each year end. During
negotiations agree.nent was reached on these reporting and audit arrangements.



32
B. Benefits and Risks
3.13     Benefits.  The proposed Project will facilitate the continuation of
term financing for the SMI sector as well as support increased pre-shipment
lending to SMI exporters. In addition to providing needed financial
assistance, the Project will foster technical, administrative and policy
measures to help offset the constraints on SMI firms, especially exporters,
and facilitate their potential contribution to the Philippines' objective of
increasing non-traditional exports.
3.14     The Bank loan would increase the long-term resources available for
SMI lending. It is expected that about 3,000 investment subprojects will be
financed, with subproject costs, including sponsors' equity, of about P7.6
billion (about US$355 million) and an average subloan size of about P2.5
million (about US$120,000). These subloans are expected to generate
incremental direct employment of about 60.000, with an incremental cost-per-
job of about US$6,400. Since individual subprojects to be financed under the
loan are not yet identified, quantification of their economic impact is not
possible. However, under the Bank's past SMI financing the ex ante financial
rates of return have been robust.  Further, under the second SMI loan (1727-
PH) an ex post analysis of a sample of firms indicated that, after full
implementation, 90? of the firms were profitable earning an average 17? return
on equity.
3.15     Risks.  There are no unusual project risks.  With respect to the
Credit Component, demand will be subject to the overall performance of the
economy. The demand for IGLF funds during the project period is projected
conservatively and is well within the historical growth performance of IGLF.
The introduction of market-based interest rates will also help to ensure that
credit demand is not subject to wide swings due to distortions in administered
interest rates, as occurred in the past.
IV.   AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDING AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements and Understandings
3.16     During negotiations the following agreements and or understandings
were confirmed:
(a) with IGLF:
(1) an updated Policy Manual will be issued which will incorporate
agreements with the Bank as noted below. During the Project,
further  changes in the Policy Manual would need to be agreed
with t%e Bank:
(i)   firm eligibility criteria and maximum subloan size
(para. 2.9).
(ii)   conformance with environmental laws (para. 2.12).



33
(iii)   interest rates to be charged to the PFIs (paras. 2.16 -
2.19)
(iv)   interest rates to be charged to end-users and credit
risk (para. 2.20)
(v)   establishment of an equity reserve account for foreign
exchange risk (para. 2.21).
(vi)   preferential interest rate arrangements on subloans to
companies located outside designated regions (para
2.22).
(vii)   minimum  participation by PFIs and  minimum equity
contribution by entrepreneurs (para. 2.24).
(viii)  lending terms for the export pre-shipment window
(paras. 2.29 and 2.30).
(ix)  computation of financial rates of return on subloans
(para. 3.11).
(2)  review and phase out of regional interest rate preference (para
2.22).
(3j  measures to improve the IGLF guarantee and an implementation
schedule to be prepared and submitted to the Bank for review by
June 30, 1990 (para. 2.26 - 2.27).
(4)  plans for the proposed transfer of IGLF to DBP (para. 2.33).
(5)  use of surplus funds accruing to IGLF because subloans from IGLF
will be repaid on shorter amortization schedules than IGLF
repayment to the Government (para 3.3)
(6)  set aside of a random sample of 5% of all subloan
appraisals for review by the World Bank (para. 3.10).
(7)  reporting and auditing requirements (para. 3.12).
(b) with the Department of Finance and Philguarantee:
(1)  measures to expand the coverage of the pre-shipment export
guarantee and that these are adopted by Philguarantee's Board and
incorporated in Philguarantee's Policy Manual (para. 2.40).
(2)  terms of reference for assistance to implement these measures
(para 2.40);
(3)  review of these new initiati-es after one year and need for
recapitalizing and restructuiing Philguarantee (para. 2.41).



34
(4) an annual audit of operations (para 3.12)
(c) with the Department of Trade and Industry:
(1) all relevant agencies represented have approved the
computerization plan (para. 2.45);
(2) terms of reference for the consultant assistance for the DDS
subcomponent (para 2.46);
(3) for the Trade Information subcomponent, submission to the Bank
of detailed cost estimates and needs analysis (para. 2.50).
(4) user fees for the PSP and Domestic Fairs Program (paras. 2.52 -
2.54);
(5) for the Policy/Program Design subcomponent, agreement on the
terms of reference (para. 2.61);
(6) reporting and audit requirements (para 3.12).
B. Condition of Effectiveness
3.17     Issuance of the revised IGLF Policy Manual will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 2.8).
C. Recommendation
3.18      With the above agreements and understandings, Bank loan of US$60.0
million equivalent for a term of 20 years including five years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate, is recommended to be made to the Government
of the Philippines to finance the IGLF program. In addition, a JGF grant of
Yen 470 million will be extended through the Bank for the other components of
the Project.



35
ANNEX 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMI Overview -- Value Added by Sector
CSMI as a 2
Subsector as a    of total            CSMI subsector
2 of a total       manufacturing      as a 2 of
manufacturing      by subsector        CSMI total
Food                           0.19               0.30               0.27
Textile                        0.06               0.14               0.04
Apparel                        0.03               0.32               0.05
Leather                        0.00               0.43               0.00
Footwear                       0.01               0.34               0.01
Wood & cork                    0.04               0.27               0.05
Wood furniture                 0.01               0.63               0.03
Paper                          0.02               0.22               0.03
Printing                       0.01               0.60               0.04
Chemicals                      0.11               0.50               0.26
Ruibber                        0.02               0.19               0.02
Plastics                       0.02               0.42               0.03
Other non metallic
mineral products              0.01               0.63               0.03
Nonferous metals
basic industries              0.01               0.29               0.01
Fabricated
metals                        0.02               0.63               0.06
Machinery                      0,01               0.68               0.03
Transport equipment            0.03               0.24               0.03
Other                          0.41               0.01               0.03
Total                          1.00               0.21               1.00
Source: 1983 Philippines Census of Manufacturing



36
ANNEX  2
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Accredited financial Institutions
(as of December 31, 1987)
Date
accredited
Commercial Banks
Allied Banking Corporation                                               09/09/77
Bank of the Philippine Islands                                           02/17/77
China Banking Corporation /a                                             03/18/80
CityTrust Bankin3 Corporatton                                            12/02/87
The Consolidated Bank and Trust Co.                                      03/09/77
Far East Bank & Trust Co.                                                12/14/76
International Corporate Bank                                             04/19/85
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co.                                            09/27/82
Philippine Bank of Communications                                        09/17/76
Philippine Commercial International Bank                                 02/11/83
Prudential Bank /a                                                       11/02/79
Uizal Commercial Banking Corporation                                     09/27/76
Security Bank                                                            09/27/85
Union Bank of the Philippines /a                                         0;/22/E0
Subtotal
Savin&s and Mortgage Banks
Asian Savings Bank                                                       10/22/83
Banco de Oro                                                             07/07/82
Hermosa Savings and Loan                                                 06/08/87
Subtotal
Private Development Banks
Agribusiness Development Bank (formerly Second
Pampanga Development Bank)                                            08/15/85
Asiatrust Development bank                                               09/22/84
BPI Agricultural Development Bank                                       09/22/84
Dimaguete City Development Bank                                          01/24/87
Luzon Developmnnt Bank (formerly Peoples Develop-
ment lank)                                                             11/06/85
Northern Mindanao Development Bank                                       01/02/85
Planters Development Bank                                                04/15/85
Premiere Development Bank                                               01/08/85
Queen City Development Bank                                              01/11/86
Southern Negros Development Bank /a                                      10/18/84
Urban Development Bank                                                   10/15/84
Subtotal
Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
ABA Development Corporation                                              02/18/80
Private Development Curporation of the Philippines                       09/17/76
Subtotal
Specialized Government Uank
Land Bank of the Philippines                                             06/30/81
/a Temporarily disqualified from availing of the tGLF Program due to overall
high past due ratio/low collection ratio.



37
ANNEX 2
Table 2
pt4lLIPP9f9S
FOIItTN SKALL ADD 'gIotY4 IND2STRIES DIitvIuPOET  PSOJCCT
inatrttaL Gsar,_nh, and Lo.n ttId
IC.LF '..^S.Laidtn. Lien Poesfitoll (lt bidli Sein*tr.htil SoF.e"
WO~~~~~~~~ rU...            t3V 1I
tatt a? pent?  It,  ilt'
-~~~~~~~~~7 -
Allied  taitti   Corpirat on                                           9          F',l,\
int nt  eflCa Ihlpr                                                                     illds!]   
Chin tint ing Corportion   a                                           I.           a,L'1
.ntern.tLtnei Lurp.rate  tiont                                                      1 ,SI
Menu r   enpot   It r                                                                  I'       o  -                       
Phippn   tt S  'I C.i n,; OI o.   ct ion.0Ci
PhiLirpin,, Co_ta C^ ntern tinrdL  tat.                                U           .Q,nln
Phti Liptn. Veterans ta.  b                                             I               '
Pr',dotrq lank   d                                                                    ''
inpotLLt  PLIntlet.  ten.  p                                            i tj
SL*4i  .itId        S berntit   .roratIo'l
'iir: Li S n.'
Sen  it tn fhi  ip.Lrna
.It Vnbn         et    , pn                                                         ,.
nrr.  d   r
POl .4tt 3t    LOtte,'timnr  lab e                                                 V
\.,tttter  ML ndne   Onutr ^  I. fettn
, tr teve.,prent Sen.a                                                               I  
| ~~~~~~~~~~~P 1 enrtr o    . rX5 fp_r nt 
P rerser. let.. p.ltr  iett                                                         i. 
-.r- D wr,  .t         e '-   a
r;tc 2. ti   .t'                                                     _         __,
teflt  b  a..Lttt.L
OVA  Ieot.tpnnt   ..ponattt
.nrtL  I tai Irv-- Vt 5 rr '-" 'c r  
P r:at I L^  e V,. . i'ie2tt. r ptat;  i  !.' i t      ' *.:2j,. .     .             ,   
beit  I-vteAt hoSen  'rtto............t.  I..   r      '                       * . .
'rA-  A 'Lted   ,ton_rtin   tlent
Ivd  ARCe                 rcn               
..atLnWiit  [t3otal SmovIg.   ,                                                         '1
P.er  (ran
POet.   A                                                             .
nSOFt l       l.-
L.ebe ntoan   tti 
'abt F
;taenkeanI
Marl Lao
'tunrtiLupa  b Ff
Suesa ii iI'te
Pt e~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
Ptnaranda   b                                                           -               .
VagFnanon                                                                              S-
*Iltnt.la   F                                                           -.             9.
S,Ftola                                                             .5
'i~AL                                                          *             ' ,9.
* Pro Lert  Li alo  f manneed  itt  then han.
'a  t.orarui(  ditqueiif led inn, tOil Lnt 'it th   ti.! Pr nt  dot  ., v'ranLl
nigh past due ratio  LOt :1.1I ccton  rat:
b  Wnder LIquidation.
.ndeer taetiventhip.
a   ndan   untrlr..trahLp.



3S
ANNEX 2
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IGLF Loans as a Percent of Credit in the Philippines. 1982-86
(P million)
Private sec-
tor busi-
Total loans      nesses (ex-
outstanding        cluding
in the        loans to indi-    Loans to        Inter-
Philippine       viduals and         manu-       mediate      Long-
End-         IGLF         banking        public sec-       facturing      term        term
year      portfolio       system        tor entities)    industries    loans          loans
1982          522.7       98,239.6        72,468.2          29,958.3   17,778.3    12,675.5
1983         651.5       111,387.7        82,177.2          35,409.9   16,858.2    17,303.6
1984       1,037.2       116,382.2        80,397.8         32,136.0   28,226.5    17,181.9
1985       1,462.2        87,573.3        58,606.6         21,856.6   14,667.9    14,806.5
1986       1,056.6       83,087.4         58,298.5         21,762.2   15,042.1    10,646.7
Source: Central Bank.



39
ANNEX 2
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Number of Branches of ICLF-Accredited Financial Institutions by Region
(as of December 31, 1987)
Raegions
I  II  CAR/a  III  NCR/a  IV/a   V  VI  VII  VIII  IX   X  XI  XII  Total
Commercial Banks
A1llid Banking Corporation               6   4    4      8      41     8    3   9   9        3    5   7   6   4       117
RRnk of the Philippine Islands          4   -    2    10       62      6    3   7   4       2    1   6   5   1        113
China Banking Corporation                I   -    -      2      13     -    1   1   1       -    1   1   1   -         22
The Consolidated Bank & Trust Co.    2   -    1          2      23     3    3   2   6        1    1   3   3   1        51
Far East Bank & Trust Co.               4   1    1       6      51     6    3   4   5       -    I   1   3   1         87
International Corporate Bank            1   -    -       7      16     -    1   1   3       -    -   I   1   -         31
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co.           4   6    1    10        55    14    4   6           3    6   5   5   2        128
Philippine Bank of Communications    I   -    -          -      16     -    -   I   I       -    -   I   I   -         21
Phil. Coim'l International Bank         7   1    2    10        70     5    3  13   9       4    4  10   9   7        154
Prudential Bank                         2   -    1       5      2.     3    1   2   3       1    1   1   1   -         46
Rizal Commercrial Banking Corp.         I   I    1       2      16     1    2   2   2       2    -   3   3   -         36
Security Bank & Trust Co.               2   2    1       2      39     6    -   4   3       -    I   1   2   1         64
Union Bank of the Philippines           -   -    -       I      11     -    1   2   3       1    1   1   2   -         23
Citytrust Banking Corporation           -   -    I       -      25     5    2   -   2       -    -   2   1   -         38
Subtotal                            35  15   15    65    463    57   27  54  58    17   22  43  43  17            931
Savings and Mortgage Banks
Asian Savings Bank                      -   -    -       -      10     -    -   -   I       -    -   -   -   -         11
Banco de Oro Savings Bank                    -    -      -     22      -    -   3   -       -    -   -   -   -         25
Hermosa Savings and Loan Bank           -   -    -       4       -     -    -   -   -       -    -   -   -   -          4
Subtotal                             -   -    -      4      32      -    -   3   1       -    -   -   -   -        40
Private Development Banks
Agribusiness Development Bank           -   -    -       I       -     -    -   -   -       -    -   -   -   -          1
Asiatrust Development Bank              I   -    -       -       5     1    -   -   -       -    -   -   -   -          7
BPI Agricultural Development Bank    -   -    -          -      -      2    -   -   -       -    -   ,   _   _          2
Luzon Development Bank                  -   -    -       I      -    11    -   -   -        -    -   -   -   -         12
Northern Mindanao Dev. Bank             -                -       -     -    -   -   -       -    -   1   -   -          I
Planters Development Bank               -   -    -    14        -      4    -   -   -       -    -   -   -   -         18
Premiere Development Bank               -   -    -       -      11     2    -   -   -       -    -   -   -   -         13
Southern Negros P velopment Bank        -   -    -       -      -      -    -   4   -       -    -   -   -   -          4
Urban Development Bank                  -   -    -       -      14     -    -   -   -       -    -   -   -   -         14
Subtotal                             1   -    -    16       30    20    -   4   -        -    -   I   -   -        72
Nonbank Financial Intermediaries
Private Development Bank of the
Philippines                           1   -    -       -      -      -    1   2   1       -    -   -   I   -          6
Specialized Government Bank
Land Bank of the Philippines             2   2    1      4       4     3    2   1   1        1    1   1   2   -         S
Subtotal                             3   2    1      4       4      3    3   3   2       1    1   1   3   -        31
GRAND TOTAL                         39  17   16    89    529    80   30  64  61    18   23  45  46  17   1.074
/a CAR - Cordillera Autonomous Region
NCR - National Capital Region
Region IV - Southern Tagalog Region



40                       ANNE  2
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Summary of Operations 1982-87
(_ million)
Releases                            Outstanding portfolio
Years   Cottage    Small    Medium   Total    Cottage    Small    Medium             Total
1982       0         42.0      145.2     187.3       0.6       183.5    338.7       522.7
1983       1.5      133.0       78.1    212.6        6.8       326.9    317.8       615.5
1984      0.1      238.2       230.8    469.2        5.5       518.6    513.1   1,037.2
1985      0.3       151.7      467.2    619.2        4.7       555.2    902.3   1,462.2
1986      0.5       103.1      119.1    222.7       20.9       702.3  3,333.4   1,056.6
1987       2.5       75.9      242.4    320.8       15.8       425.5    329.5       770.9



P4 Li.4 IPP I NPS
Fl I)RTU S(MAl AN44 M11l4l4M INDUIISTR FS  lFMvFL.IPMFE8T PRI4  ECI
Industrial l.iA ant e  _:. !.#an hind
Ch.raaterlqtht_   nf STI Approval-        y Sire  Puip. a_dPld rltl.    9192-R7
C:Y82                             C:YR1     _                       Y84                           f Y8S                             CYRO,                              CYR81
No.                                                                          2     AnII.tt                                              .       2       at .       t    No.                Ant. .       4
.1e ol Loan (PI
5((44    .ad     o                  -       - --                    -               -        -       -       -                            -      -        -        -       1      0.5       4          -       I       0.6      0.1
n,0(4 I -    20000 ,O               16     9.9        2.4      1.1    IR    10.)       1.44     1.4      9     1.1      I.        .i   14       4.2      2.2    ').4    is        6.0        2.5      7.2    It        7.0      1.7      0.4
2mo,o4w  -    S484lIt,fl(            18    23.4       i 5.4     8.2    14    20.1    11.3        6.1    11    12.1    II.4        2.8    S9    14.8    24.5        4.n    19      20.9       16.2      7.2    26       Ih.S      9.7      1.0
Sf44,000 -    8440,440o              1n    IR.       22.7    12.4    23       1).6    16.2      7.R    17      9.9    IR.9       1.9    41    11).3    29.1       4.7      n      Ih(.0     20.8      9.1    Ih        0. I(    11.2     1.5
R4M.001 - 2, S4X.","4                77    47.h      144.9    7h.9    RS    20.1   142.6    68.R   117    SI).2   211.9    44.1   216    54.411 118.R    Sl.8    8                45.5    126.2    26.6    66          4I.R   104.6    32.4
2 , 0Sl)0 I - *,44004,444               I     (I.h        S.(4     2.4      8     4.7    2R.2    11.1    hh    24.1  '22.0    47.9    hS   I4,.   211.9    17.6    IJ                 9.1      S8.4    26.0    19         12.0    60.7    18.8
I,e-  4,440(-,000                           -         -             -       I     0.6      s.n      2.4      1    1).4      2.       I."      2     0.S      9.4      I.2      -        -         -        -     19       12.n  I1.7   46.9
T. al                             If62   100.0      18RA.4  I448.0  Ih9   1(17.11  211 .t.  14444.0  271  I4144.0  484.7   10414.    440   44114.4   615.9   40n.0   487    100.0    221.9   100.0   128             100.0   122.7   100.0
A-,4t Size (4)
Mlrrol ndtialtrylmbnns/-                 -      -           -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -        -         -        -       -         -        -       '
C t 4afe Indstr.y loan.  /b             -       -          _        -       2     1.2      1.4 1     4.6     1      .4      1        (1 1I.112    2  44.2    0.2      0.1      -        -         .S       -      9        S.7      2.2      0.8          4i
S.-It  industry . loan- h              84    24.9        44.S    21.4   129    76.1   112.4    h4.44   171    62.h   ?47.1    24.02  466    441.44   12.2    24.2              1       1.6    I10.1    44.7    64         *0.5    72.1    21.1            F-
'd l. Indttry  Ioans /d                IX    48.1       147.9    7R.6    1R    27.2    74.9    12.4   1441   17.04  217.1    48.96  214    28.S  464.2    72.4   10S                 Sl6.1    123       55.1   flS        51.8   246.9   75.9
Total                             162   44444w44    IRR.4   4444.0n  169   440.44  214 4.h   40.41  274 1 (0. O  484.7  1 00. 4)  4n(4   11).1)  b642.9   100.0   487    400.0    223.9   100.0   158                100.0   322.?   100.0
-uryos-  of Iloan
Flned *r. -t.                         149    71.n       Ih46.4    8R.1  1144    27.R   427.7    74.2    7'   2 1           84.R4    17.4    91)   24. 1   hIi.- I     7.9    S8      26.0      46.1   244.6    62         11.3   120.9   ]1.5
Working fapI1tal                       64    29.f4       22.4   144.7   92    42.2    Sl.9    2S.S  .41    77.'   4414j.4    8I.6   1S4    79.1   244.8    82.1   462                74.0    177.8    79.4   116          68.7   201.e    62.2
Total                             240   100.41    IR8.4   4 14.0  222   14444.4  _244.6  _L4.1  _11    44444.44   84.7   I0n.0n  444  141).1  642.9   4X                 00.0 221/. 400.0    221.9    1011.0  196./  400.0   122.?  100.0
lat-irIty Loan,
0 -   1 V--                            144     8.6        9.1      4.9      S     2.9      1.4       .6      6     2 .2     2 2      44.4   112    78.44  476.4    77.1    IR          9.6      244.1     9 n    24       12.1    14.7       4.2
1     2 5 year                         21    41.44       21.9    11.6    48    :R.4    12.5    42.4  4I1    26.44   217f.h    48.8    16            9.0    42.6       6.9    98      22.4    Ill.7   49.9    10            2.3      6.ll     2.1
* -   7 year.                          14    21.41       18R.     24.4    21    11.4    71.h    14.8    92    14.8   2244.8    42.6    11           8.2    644.4      9.8    S9      l1.6      73.0    32.6   141         73.2   243.9   7J.6
7 - 10 y-ar.                           210   12.1       I44.1      9.7    6l    17.1   402.1    48.2    19         7.14   22.4       2.2    14      1.2    26.1       4.3      7      1.7      10.9      4.9   I4          9.1    45.7    14.2
ln-.r 10  .ean.                        71    4S.4       14484.6    21.4     -      -        -        -       -      -        -        -       2     1.1    444.2      1.       2       2.7       8.44     1.6      5        2.S    11.       1.'
Tntal                             462  1440.0       188.4   100.11   469   4(40.0   211.6   40n.0   271   440.0  481. 7  400.4   400   4444.44  642.Y  I40.0   187    100.0    223.9   40n.0   19J                   100.0   122.7   100.0
41 '43-no Ind.atry - Project.  4Ith  ltal assets of P sn,4404 and hems. (Iro..  498).
/h  Conttage  Industry - Proje-tf   tIth total assets of tl) In CYR2  P 204,0444   or  We4.w; (2) I-  (CY14-82,  b-:,                     P 2%0.(0 Of; (1) frot CYgh * 2n.001 - P 20(4,000.
S-1al Indu.try - Pru-lets   iltb toltl --sets of (1) In CY182. 0r P *O.')  044: (2) Iro  CY81-8R     V 220.(44004  - f 2.2 aill-n; (I) fr.o CYRa,  P S00,004  - P 2.0 .nIlilon.
Td  Medi.m  Ind-strvy -Proj.ct. .th total as..t. vi  44) In CIA,                        P 80AM.no;  (2) tron rYRY-8, P 7.S                      -IIIon   nd P 444.0 nlIllon; (3) frct CY86. P 20       . f * fllon  - P 21.n
.  Indinldhal  n,-bers do nolt  dd up to total because ol  tstltl4ocp ..s- Ian...



PIIILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND ItEDIUII IIDUSITRIES DEVELOnEElit PROJECT
Industril Guarantee and LoaD Fund
Regional Dlstrlbutton of ICLF Loans Appro.*d. 1982-87
(P  t I Ion)
CY82                         CYII                         CY84.                      CY85                           CY"                           CY87
NO.    I      Aml.    t     W T.-       -                 llo. *      hat. I         No.  tlo. t   Amt.      *     us.     I   At                no.   tI        a.t. 
I  -  lIoco.                       3    1.9    1.3    0.7    7    4.1    4.5    2.1         7    2.6    S.8    1.2    7    1.8    8.1    1.3          2    i.l    1.3    0.6         4    2.5      3.0    0.9
11  -  Ceg4yan Valley               1    0.6    0.1       -     6    3.6    0.9    0.4    3    1.1    8.01    1.7   IS    3.8   27.7    4.5            6    1.2    6..    2.9         -              -       -
III  -  Central Luson               10    6.2    9.2    4.9    5    3.0    3.3    3.6 t1  11.1   57.9   11.9  107   26.8  167.8   27.2    18   20.3   41.9   19.6                     24   15.2    39.2   12.1
IV  -  Metro PentIa                79  46.8  113.7   60.4  106   42.7  141.6   bb.9  144   52.7  279.5   57.7  179  64.8  I15.0   S1.1    94   50.3  12).1   5S.0                   94   59.5   234.3   12.6
IV-A  -  Soultern Tagalog             8    4.9   13.4    7.1    9    5.3   11.7    S.S   11    4.0   23.0    4.7   14    3.5   19.5    3.2    n7    9.1   21.1    9.4                   8    S.l      8.1    2.5
V  -  Rlcol                        X    1.2    (.8    0.4    1    0.6    1.5    0.7    4    1.S    4.1    0.11           5    1.2    3.0    0.5       -      -      -       -        4    2.5      6.1    2.0
VI  -  Western Vlayas              26   16.1   21.1   11.2   It    6.5    8.9    *.2   24    8.5   22.0    4.5   28    7.0   21.8    1.3    16    8.6   13.3    1.9                   2    1.3      1.6    0.6
VII  -  Central Vlsay's             18   11.1   73.4    7.7   14    8.2   16.5    7.8   39   14.1   67.5   11.9   20    3.0   24.3    3.9               5    2.6    5.8    2.6         I    5.7    19.3    5.0
Vill  -  E.stern Vlsae                                     I-             0.6    1.0    2.4    -      -      -       -      5    1.2    6.6    1.1       2    1.1    1.9    0.5         I    0.6      2.0    0.8
IX  -  Wstern Mlinanao              -     -       -       -     I    O.6    3.5    1.7    -        -       -       -     -      -      -       -       -     -       -       -       -      -        -       _
I  -  Nortbern linind o            5    3.1    5.7    3.0    4    2.4    6.8    3.2    8    2.9   15.7    3.2   14    3.5   16.6    2.7               5    2.6    6.2    2.8         9    5.7      6.9    1.5
XI  -  Southern lindaao             a    4.9    7.1    3.8    3    1.8    6.7    3.2    1    ",.4    ".2    0.1    5    1.2    5.3    0.9              2    1.1    0.9    0.4         2    1.3      2.8    0.9
III  -  Central  ilndanao            2    1.2    k.6    0.8    1    0.6    0.7    0.3    1    U.4    1.0    0.,    1    0.2    0.2    0.1               -      -  -           -        I    0.6      1.0    0.1
Total                           162  100.0  188.4  100.0  169  100.0  211.6  1300.0  273  100.0  484.7  100.0  400  100.0  61b.0  300.0   18Z  300.0  223.9  10u.0    ISO  300.0   122.7  100.0
_                                            . _ __~~~~~H



PHILIPPINES
FO0RITH SHALL -AND 1NDIt INDUSTRIES DEVELOPINT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Sectoral Dlstrlbt6.on ot ICLF Loans Appro.ed. 1982-67
(P million)
Cr52                         CT8]                          CY84                        Cr8s                           CrT"                           cn71
no.  t       At.  t         l0.    2       Amt.    2    No.    2         Aml.    2    llu.       2      Aw.    2   lb.    2         At.       2      11.    2 At*              2
.lontctori!A
Po.d and Icod prudu t%              28   11.1   29.0   1S,4   IS           9   19.2    9.1   el   29.1  140.2   28.9  I5S   39.5  !22.1   16.S   Sl   21.1   59.9   lb.)                   27    11.1       56.2   17.4
Tobdc .- o                           -      -       -        -     -      -       -       -      -      -       -       -      -     -       -       -      -      -       -       -        -       -         -       -
TeaZI3ea                             A    2.5    4.6    2.4    9    5.3   12.3    S.d   12    4.4   22.1              4.h    P    2.0   0U.b    1.4    a                                    3..    *2.5  3.1   1  1.9  25.0    7.1
AppareI/luo.~torr/sa;ruel,t.         6    5.6   16.4    8.7   25   14.7   28.3   13.4   12   *1.7   43.3    b.9   37    9.2   45.11                 1.9   26   11.9   34.4   33.6          29     18.1      Sb.8   17.6
Wood Fnd c.rh prod"cts              19   11.7   26.4   14.0        7    4.1      7.1    3.b   22    8.1   38.1         7.9   11    4.2   36..,    5.9       1    1.6    *.3    3.9         I1      1.0      12.7    3.9
Furnltore and hlat..rr              10    6.2    9.1    4.8   12    7.1   14.5    b.9            9    3.1   15.6       3.2   29    1.2   34.5    *.6   13    1.10   14.1          6.3       9      5.1      11.3    *.1
Paper and papeu pr-d-cl.              3    1.9    3.8    3.1    8    4.7   33.4    7.1           9    1.3   21.S      4.4      9    2.J   15.2    2.5    4    2.1         *.4     2.0       7      4.4       17.3    S.4     .
Printing. pub,l hinS 4               12    7.4   11.9    6.3   10    5.9    9.1          4.3     1    2.6    b.O       1.2   12    1.0   11.4    3.0   I1    3.1          7.5     3.64      9      5.       25.2    8.1      I
allIed Indostry
Leather and leather pruduct           I    0.6    2.u    1.1       )    1.    2.6       1.2     3    1.1    6.1       1.4    2    0.5    S.0    U.8        I    0.S    U.3       0.3       -       -         -       -
Rubber products                      S    3.1    6.S       1.3    S    2.9    9.4    4.5    6    2.2   13.6    2.5             1    0.5     9.4     I.S    2    1.1    2.4        1.1       2      1.3      10.6    3.3
Cheocalcs                             6    2.3     7.10    3.7     6    3.6      7.4     1.3     I    6.0   29.b    6.1   11    1.0   21.7    1.3   It    3.9   11.9    5.1                 3      1.9       t.0    2.5
Ametallilc  mineral product.         7    4.3    4.4    2.3   IS    8.9   *S.5           1.S   12    4.4   20.4    4.2   16    4.0   18.6    1.0   It    3.9    8.2               1.1       6      1.8       S.S    I.d
lasic  Ita1  Indastries             12    7.4   12.5 8      6                                    2    od      4.3      1.     6    1.0 I..8    1.9    -            -       - -  2                   -         -       -
Iktal products                       5    3.1     5.       4.7   3b    9.5   22.1   I0.S   28   10.2   45.8   10.1   IS    5.8   51.7    8.4   17    9.1   25.8   1I.3                    16      10.1      4-.9   14.2
El3ctrtll _ecbla-iappillawas          7    4.1     1.5    4.2    4    2.4    6.4         3.0    5    1.8    8.7        1.8    7    1.8   12.2    2.0        6    2.1    6.4       2.9       2      1.1       I.S    0.5
Noeelectrfi  marblte/appllance       9    3.S    6.4       3.4    9    S3.       6.1     2.9     a    0.4      1.0    0.2     3    0.8    6.1       1.0     i    1.6    1.8    0.5          6      1.8       6.0     1.9
Trnmport "e.1psnt                    4    2.3    6.5    3.6    3    1.5    2.1    1.1    *    I."    8.7               1.5    S    1.2    S.6    0.9    -          -       -       -        -       -         -       -
NIscelleneoua meufactures           17   10.3   21.9   11.6   18   10.7   24.4   36.S   :1             1.'   .1.2     8.5   Is    9.5   69.5   11.3   20   IO.1   21.6   12.1              201    12.6      217.6     .6
Total   nulact.urlns            316   99.4  181.6   99.b  163   91.6  201.4   9b.1  2.6   97.   410.0   97.0  395   95.8  610.3    n.3   164   98.4  221.8   99.3    1SU                      94.9      114.8   91.6
Constructlos,                                  -           -         I    0.6      1.2     1.S     -      -               -      a    0.2     1.2    0.2          -      -           -        -        -            -
Tourlam                                 -      -       -       -     -      -       -       -             -       -       -      -     -       -       -      -      -       -            -       -             -       -
Otlhr services                          I    0.6    0.6    0.4       3    3.5    3.0    2.4        7    2.6   14.7    3.0    6    1.0    4.6    0.7           3    1.6    2.1    0.9          8      5.1       7.9    2.4
Total                           162  100.0  1811.4  100.0  *69  300.0  211.6  100.0  273  3Uu.0  4l4.1 IU00.0   00  100.0  616.3  *00.0  187  *00.0  723.9  I*O.U3    358   IU0.U    122.1    0.n1                       o



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SHALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Analysis of Arrears of IGLF Portfolio as of DecemtFr 31, 1987
(P'OOO)
Loan affectf
Total loans        Loans affected                 Arrears                Total       as 2 of loans
outstanding           by arrears                   Interest           arrears as    outstaading
No. of               No. of                          & other            X of loans       my       By
projects   Amount   projects   Amount  Principal  charges    Total  outstanding  nu ber  amount
Commercial baniks                     240    267,203         55    51,070    8,743        3,930   12,673        4.7        22.9    19.1
Gonbank financial institutions        259    206,351        100    6!,414   11,740        7,676   19,416        9.4        38.6    31.7
rivate develolment banks             202    237,943         48    32,068    8,776        3,869   12,644        5.3        23.8    13.5
Rural banks                            39       2,350        24      1,341    1,139          184    1,323      56.3        61.5    57.1
ither institutions                     65     57,044        Is      4,5:1    3,496          921    4,417        7.7        23.1     8.0
Total                            805    770,891       242   154,444   33,893        16,580   50.473        6.5        30.1    20.0
Interest and
Principal       other charges          Total
Aging of arrears               Amount    2        Amount      2     Amount      2
Up to 45 days                 4,267   12.6       2,129    12.9    6,396    12.7
46 -  3 months             2,618    7.7      1.050      6.3    3,668       7.2                         .4
3 -  6 months             3,930   11.6      1,810    10.9    5,740    11.4
6 - 12 months             6,514   19.2      3,516    21.2   10,030    19.9                            * 
i2 - 24 months             8,546   25.2      4,621    27.9   13,167    26.1
Over 24 montihs                 8,018   23.7       3,454    20.8   11,472    22.7
lTt.Il                    11,893  100.0    Ib,580   100.0   SU,473   100.0



45                                   ANNEX 2
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
ro     SMALL AND MEDIUM IND(STRIES DEVILOPHEWT PROJgCT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Analysis of Arrears Betweeon End-Uters and PFIe Under The Accreditatiton Scheom  as of December 31. 1987
Loans affected
Total loans        Loans affected                  Arrears                 Total      as S of loans
outstandLnL ty arrears                              Interest            arrears as    outstanding
No.of                 No. of                          & other             2 of loans      By       By
proJecte   Amount   projects   Amount  Principal  charges    Total  outstendtin   number  asount
Comercial banks                       182    171,881         26    26.413    9.117         5,692   14.869        8.7          14.3    15.4
Nonbcnk financLal institutione/b    137        60,548         39     8,918    4,356        1,433    5,789        9.6          28.5    14.7
Private develop.snt banks             129    152,888          32    22,034    3.,95        4,748    8,643        5.7          24.8    14.4
Rural banks                             -            -        -           -        -            -         -       -             -
Other institutions                     47      54,892          5     5,67A    4,520        7,349   11,869       21.6          10.6    10.3
Total                            495    440,209        102    63,043   21,948        19.222   41.170        9.4         20.6    14.3
Inte"est and
Principal       cth::thargse           Total
Aging of arrears                Amount    I       Amount       X
Up to -  3 months              3,451   15.7      2,155    11.2    5,606    13.6
Over  3 -  6 months              3,491   16.0       2,840    14.8    6,331    15.4
Over  6 - 12 month               1,628    7.4       1,758      9.1    3,386      b.2
Over 12 - 24 months              1,366    6.2       1,369    7'       2,735      6.7
Over 24 months                  12,012   54.7    11,100    57.-   23,112    56.1
Total                     21,948  100.0    19,222   100.    41,170   100.0
Arrears ratios of
financial institutions
Loans affected
as 2 of loan
outstandine
Total arrears as 2        BE        By
of loans outstanding   number   amount
Arreare Position
December 31, 1982                      4.9              27.7      24.7
December 31, 1983                      4.9              29.0      22.6
December 31. 1984                      3.5              21.5      11.7
December 31, 1985                      2.7              18.5       9.5
December 31. 1986                      5.2              20.3      .2.6
December 31, 1987                      9.4              20.6      14.3
/a  These data are basod on reports submitted to ICLF by financial institutions on the statue of their loan portfolio on a
quarterly basLs. Hwever, not all financial institutions report to IGL? as required, thus these data do not cover all
loans that are in arrears between end-users of ILl and participating institutions.
/b  Including Savings  & Loan Aasociations & Nortgage Banks.



ANNEX 2
46                                   Tble 11
'PILIPPIfES
FOURTH SMALL AND .'IDtLM  tNDUSSIIC3 DtVILoP5NT PROJECT
tndustrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Analusto of Arrears Between 'nd-Uttr  and Ppse /a as of Decembor 31. 1987
Loons affected
Total loans          Loans affected                  Arr S                     Total      as   of Loans
outstanding            bvarrears                      in,ertt              arrars, as    outstandins
No. or                 .0o  orI        -                   othor             2 of loans        Sy       ey
Drojects   Amount   orolects   Amount  PrLncipal  chartes              Total  outstanding  number  amount
Comnrcial banks                         183      172 360         27    26,892      9,656        6.228    15,884        9.2          14.8     15.6
No-nbenk financial institutions          137      60.548         39      8,918     4,356        1.433      5,789       9.6          28.5      14.7
Private development banks               136      153,720         39    22,866    4.628          5.563    10.191        6.6          28.7    14.9
Rural banks                              31       I1,81          26      1,511     1,324          892      2,216     117.8          83.9    80.3
Other inotttutions /b                    48       546920          5      5,678    4,520         7,349    11,869       21.6          10.4    10.J
Totol                              535    443,429         136    65 865   24 484         21 465   451949         10.4         25.4      14.9
Interest and
Prtncipal        other chre              Total
Ainit of arrorars                    ut    xnt                    x      Amount       X
Up r. -  3 months               3,478    14.2       2,187      10.2    5,665      12.4
Over  3 -  6  onths                3,501    14.3      2,850      13.3    6,351       13.8
Over  6 - 12 months                1,666    6.8        1,784      8.3    3,450        7.5
Over 12 - 24 months                1.541     6.        1,454      6.8    2,995        6.5
Over 24 months                    14,298   58.4      13,190    61,4   27,488         59.8
Total                       24.484  100.0    21.465    100.0   45.949   100.C
Arrears ratios of                   Arr- s ratIos of reporting financial
financial institutions                ins,::Utions (excluding arur:al Tbaks)
Loans dn rected                                oans sElected
as 2 of loan                                  as I of loan
oucscendi ne                                 outst&ndlna
lotal arrears as S         l:         By       Total arrears as           By        y
of loans outstandins   number   amount   of I-ans outstanding   number  amount
Arrears Position
-Dcember 31, IS82                         9.6              43. 2      27 .4               8.2             34.6    26.5
December 31, 1983                        8 0               38.2      24 1                 7 0            32 2    23 6
December 31, 1984                        4.5               28.8      12.4                 4.0            23.9      IZ2I
December 31, 1985                         3.3              23.5       9.9                 2.9            19.6       9.7
December 31, 1986                        5.9               23.3      12.9                 5.7            21.1      12.7
December 31. 1987                       10.4               25.4      14.9                 9.9            21.8      14.6
Semester                      Semester
Total no. of             sndinf 06-30-87               endtnc 12-31-87
partictpating          ThoWe that                    Thons  that
instttutions           reported                      reported
(as of 12-31-87)          to ICLF            S          to ICLF           S
Coe_ rcial baiks                                       19                   20            95 2            to           94. 7
Nonbank financial institutions                          4                    6            83.3             *          100.0
Private devolo_ost banks                               13                   14            93.3            11           84.6
Rural bank.                                            25                   17            63.0             17          68.0
Other instttutions                                      6                    3            50.0              4          66.7
Total                                             67                   60            80.0            54          80.6
/a  These data are based on reports submitted to ICLF by financial institutions on the status of their loan portfolto on a
quarterly basis. However, not all financial institutions report to ICLF as required, thus these data do not cover all
loans that are in arrears betveen end-users of ICLF and participating institutions.
Lb  Including Savings A Loan Associations & Mortgage Banks.



FOnITe SNILL MD1 112MIN1 ltS3RISt*S D6VELOFNUU  PSOJECT
lad.stri.1 Ci..aretee see Lee. Fuod
L_0 coll.ctles, Vot"e .9 WI. Io. Ilad-sear.. 1963-65
got     2z         ld      4th       lot      2e4       lt4      &t%      let       lad      1td      4th       let      2.d      3rd      4thb b    _  *_
quar-E t    ner qua  rter quater qea    rter  qua rter quatere  quarter  quarter   urtet   ear           ater qat    quarter  quarter  qurter  qeaer  _a_s   meter
le.. the *ctredolitattm Ihes
ICLF-Pluaaed L.aa _   e t  o
Prlrlspl                          *4.142   41.310   13.132   11.11A   14.193   16,311   11.501   18.101   22.514    23.154    21150   1*.129   32.2199   21.41    34.442   25.*31   31.32    S1.43
.t.a..t a_  "her  h.r -.           .    si      n    s  o.60   10.ol    10.402   l2EU    14.119   11.051   14.110   19.251   11.39   12324   1 1.401   18.461   22.f01   11.036   3S.236   42.411
ThIaI (A)                        23*19   24.6 U       .O I   23 *    1,014   26.79S    0,0931 - 31.0  8          }  4          )         1       49.3*4   43.314   i         4         92.46   91.315
_*t a1 ICLU-Ffaoed Luse
_s far the   rter/eatr
PrPlarpal                         *S.016   15.6.5  1*.340   15.,19   15.939   21.150  15.260   24,644   25.419   2.2:2  4*,144   10.214   51*442   499 4   83.26d   S3,S1    94,923s  32.9 1
lamereet ad ether chergee         19.9*1   13.214   21.330   21.515  23.P94   24*419   1S.122   10.93   460.411   45.141   S6.160   11.93   145            16.531   1,143   46.6S*   11.242   44.S34
T.Ca* (9)                        U!2I   14n    3Jj2j   35             41,11    44.249   3402   11115   44014   14,911 8924  1274210  119941 16   @}1 1*2,6 ____            __,_               12_4
T.t.1 btile
rP.tl-opa                         29.*40   11.003   JS.666   34.1*1   14.11    40.6*1   14,31   48.410   *O,I"   so.III 0 I5  64.914    3. 'A1   14.21  u91.112    16.443   50,34 o     11.11 a 114,-.1
lateeat &ad oethr caree           29.13   21.1S3   31.203   32.11*1 14.394   3,111   31,441   41.931  51.541    *.019   4.449   44.no0  51,410   13,31  151.941 * 4.4    10*049*  4.915
Tegal (C)                so.no 11    445*114   4.4 40   ".SU                    1212  4U.222   354131  104 SI5  119511  1 1U343                 IS0 1    10391  *44,90 9 94___   _    IS8____   2..2-.'-
Aw-ut Coale.ttd ao Peat Ie
Prlatpat                             93"    1.194    1.241    2. 14    1.121   2.292    1.%26    1.1          1 1.341    I*514    1.923    1. n3    2.411    8.59*    3.413    2.4*1       *4.2    4.114
letetIat Na  etheR Crhrgee         1.411    1.454    1.411    2.131       .U4    1.201    1.U60    1.66    3.044    2.502         .34 1.5,444    2.491    3.1         3431    1.42    3.14) 41221
Total               I.sl4    4.310    I  20    4_                        .A 11   306    35 2114   1 .11                   6                 M Is104 5           .111 *L   1      *1   100   .431    a 401
&- at CoIletted -  Ctrreat  _e
Prlslpal                        104l41   13 110  U1.050   13.914   11.2)3   13.131   11.695   30."1    21.149   21.0m    19.041   15.32*  4*,10     41241         U.SI6  44. 24   61.144   10U141
ltresa_t    ether chorges        1*.300  so.%[    19U214   17."I   30.SIS   21.491   *4.065   20,930   34.521   4S.519   11.002   49,111   11.9613 51.5m   1304 S1   42,39   U3.142   10.U43
T,t,l in)                        2?,.     30,305 321J023   13.000 33.314  1     39.1 9   26         - 6L  '  M.0%    ".Oo 9JU04   115.53  104.469  114.514  121.311    0.4$1  14m   1   10
T.tal Collectled,1
fiomClpel eU_                        1.U2    1                 5.15.94   *291   31,210   *4.1  20.4n   1*1.221   22,111s   22.134   22.912   42."l   4.10   S1.111    5.009   19.1"    " .9"2    90.10   54.,51
Istefet eam ather chreses         16.011   16.191   20.111   30.121   22.s l   22.09 1n 145   29,4*          M.11*   48.341   14.3004,  31.221   1.313   14.43l  14,342   4l.113   66.331   42.9*0
Tltel (F)                        29110,.3    35.115  3S    .    130 *1  1.1 10   43 ,12  *1                 4.110       2     0          1      *i0.1524  19.451  133.411   92.434   1%.9   1*1.*4S
Col lectiona late.
Far  _    &0  (D... 3 A)            *1.1      36.2      9..   , .1  .2.0  , 1.)             10.1      10.9      6.3     *0.2      11.1     10.1  , 2.1         9.9     10.3     10.0      11.1      9.0
Per  urset de  (a 9 5)               1.2     34.4      64.1     30.4     31.2      31.1     *1.      54.9      U.O0    *4.9      92.1      91.1     91.1    91.5       93.4     63.3       0.2 l2S.1
Totel (P * C)                      13.1     5-.1      12.3     53.4     54-.1    3S.       44.9     40.3    *4-.       SI.1      13.1        .*4    12.3    51.1     64.4      4.3        0.1      1-.          *
oNder the Retire    r r.earm                                                                                                                                                                                          -
lgatl billed (e)                    33.119   32.602   31.43*   3.31    31.323   91,091    3.232   %4,011  114,142  *10.)13  141.3   1*1.n 139         . 1021  110.1o0  201.121  110.211  249.3)1  14,310 
ZTega  cllaetes, (0)               3.914   34.241   36.134       .136    M.611   41.934   31l950   51.84642.21         11.44   63."3*  131.94  019.19o  N9.11-m   *33.54    92.3*1.    11.3   J06."9,
CellartIm fe*ll  ( * 6)               11.6      41.3    4*.1      41.4     44.9      44.1     44.9     14.0      14.3     11.0     *.5       12..     49.9      0.3     *5.1      41.1     1 .       3.2



48                      ~~~~ANNEX  2
Table 13
PHILI1PPI1NE S
FOURTHl SMALL AND 4EDIL'M INDUSTRIES DEVELOPkINT PROJECT
tndustrtaC  Guarantee and Loan Fund
Outstandint IGLF Loans With and Without Guarantees, as of Decem7ber 34. 198
Without             With
giarantee         guarintee            Total
No.    Am'ount   No0.    Amount   NO.         Amount
Commercial Banks
Cottage industry                  3       788.8     3    1,346.6    6         2,135.4
mall industry                  108   98,919.7   57   43,365.1  165    142,284.8
Medium industry                  34   85,792.3    10   12,452.2   44         98,244.5
Total                       145  L85,iO0.8   70   57,163.9  215    242,664.7
Land Bank
Cottage industry                  1       121.5    -           -      I         121.5
Small industry                   29   20,761.2    -            -    29       20,761.2
Medtum Industry                   4    3,655.6    -            -      4       3,655.6
Total                        34   24,538.3    -             _    34      24,538.3
Total Commercial Banks    179  210,039.1    70   57,163.9  249    267,203.0
Nonbank (NBFI)
Cottage industry                  -       (49.4)  17    3,;' 3.2   17         2,965.8
Small industry                   34   27,758.7  190  112,i03.8  224    140,362.5
Hedlum industry                  12   38,000.0    9   25,,.2.7   21          63,022.7
Total                        46   65,709.3  216  140,b41.7  262    206,351.0
Private Development Banks
Cottage industry                 10    1,666.9   20    3,529.4   30           5,196.3
Small industry                  58   38,927.8   eo   40,992.1   118          79,919.9
Medium industry                  46  128,049.3   13   24,777.1    59    152,826.4
Total                       114  168,644.0   93   69,298.6  207    237,942.6
Other Institutions
Coctage industry                  7    2,700.2   10    1,138.2   17           3,838.4
Small Industry                   40   41,172.3    2         279.2   42       41,451.5
Medium industry                   5   11,583.3      1       170.7    6       11,754.0
Total                        52   55,455.8   13    1,588.1   65          57,043.9
Rural Banks
Cottag  I'ndustry                 5       295.6   26    1,293.6   31          1,589.2
Small Industry                    1       122.7   16        638.9   17          761.6
Total                         6       418.3   42    1,932.5   48          2,350.3
GRAND TOTAL                 397  500,266.5  434  270,624.8  831/a  770.891.3
Percentage                         48                52               I00
/a The tnerease of 26 projects from the outstanding niumber of projects of 805
as tf December 31, 1987 is due to releasas of both guaranteed and nonguar-
sncted loans to only one borrower.



49
ANNEX 2
Table 14
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRICS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
Sum_arfzed Balance Sheets as of December 31. 1982-87 /a
(P000)
December 31.
1982     1983        1984        1985        1986         1987
Ass.~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t
Due from Central Bank                               11,964   17,769        5,737      79,304    183,338       123,342
Accouuts receivable from NEDA                          100       200         201            1          -             -
Temporary investments                               23,380   40,000       17,810      71.000    669,140   1,287,320
Special time deposits outstanding                 522,741  651,505  1,037,185  1,462,176  1,056,618           770,891
Advances to Ministry of Industry                         -         -           -           -           -             -
Advances to NIDA - promotional exp.                     35        35          35           -           -             -
Accrued interest receivables                        11,964   14,580       24,930      44,310      41,755       35,904
Accrued guarantee fee receivables                      743    1,054        2,054       5,382       6,233        7,678
Prepaid administrative exp.                            202        18          54          30          30            24
Prepaid taxes on unearned discount                       -         -           -           -       2,336        7,605
Total Assets                                   571,129  725,161  1,088,006  1,662,203  1,959,450   2.232,792
Liabilities and Networth
Accounts payable                                       117        29          60          94       1,590        4,987
Accounts payable - Nat*l Gov't                     90,000   90,000             -           -           -             -
Accounts payable to Treasurer                        3,200   44,913       16,859      19,684           -             -
of the Philippines
Reserve for deficiencies on                            132       132         132         132          132          132
EXIM loan amortization
Unearned discount on interest in                         -         -           -         699      11,681       38,041
government securities
Accrued interest payable                            23,940   16,428       44,999    106,160    210,304        333,265
Accrued commitment fees payable                          -    8,562       11,417      15,069      16,784       18,307
Subtotal                                       117,389  160,064       73,467    '41,838    240.4S1         394.732
Long-term loans due to EXIM banks                     17,762   16,865       15,928      14,950      13,930        12,495
Long-term loans due to IBID                          260,134  333,594    653,292  1,057,311  1,188,511   1,159,478
Subtotal                                       277,896  350,459    669,220  1,072,261  1,202,441   1.171,973
Provisions for possible losses                         3,805    7,921       11,567      12,189      14,257       15,702
Total Liabilities                              399,090  518,444    754.254  1.226,288  1.216.698   1,582.407
Accumulation from counterpart funds                  114,000  139,000    229,000    275,000    275,000          375,000
Earned surplus                                        58,039   67,717      104,752    160,915    227,261        275,385
Net incom                                                  -         -           -           -            -            -
Total Net Worth                                172,039  206,717    333,752    435.915    502,261           650,385
Total Liabilities and Net Worth                571,129  725,161  1,088,006  1,662,203  1,959,450   2,232.792
Total Equity Ratio                                 2.3       2.5          2.3         2.8         2.4



50ANE2
Table 15
?HtLIPPUJKS
FOURTR SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial G. rantee and Loan Fund
Suiawrized Income Stastaevts - 1982-87
-          ~~~(P''000)
1982    1983    1984      1985      1986        1987
Inco"
Interest ilcom on STD                 40,61L  53,691  78,027  162,031  184,008    91,632
Interest income/discount earned        2,205      877   6,935        586   34,557   130,194
on temporary investuents
Guarantee fees                          3,300   3,962   4,446    6,078    3,591        3,218
Miscellaneous income                        -       52     122       276      578        679
Tocal tncoe                        46,116  58,582  89,530  168,971  222,734   225,723
Expenses
Adniastrative expenses                  3,88&   4,648   5,442    6,307    5,324        8,315
Interest expenses on EXIM Bank            723     691   5,995        617      583        559
loans
Interest expenses and comitment    23,804  37,880  45,226   94,800  124,082   132,3 7
fee on IBRD loans
Tax expense on interest on                  -        -       -   10,359   17,220       8,1LS
1GLF loans
Tax expense on discount earned on           -        -       -       147    6,554    25,39i
investAent in govtrnenAt
securities
Total Expenses                     28,413   43,219  56,663  112,230  153,163   175,3 
Profit Before Provisions           17,703  1iJ363  32,867   56,741   68,971    49,J49
Provision for possible losses               789   4,886   4,695    2,749    2,732        1,755
NJc Profit (Loss)                  16,914  10.477  28,172   53,992   66,239    48,13S
Ratio as  of Averag Total Assets
Gross income                              9.1     9.0      9.9      12.3      12.3       1O.8
Financial expenses                        4.8     5.0      5.7       6.9      6.9        6.4
Gross  rgin                               4.3     3.0      4.2       5.4      5.4        4.;
Ad4instrativo expenses                   0.8     0.7      0.6       0.5      0.3        0.-.
Not income                                3.3      1.6     3.1       3.9      3.6        2.3



FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUI                                   tS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL GU-.                  _ .ND LOAN FUND
ORGANIZATION CHART
Director and       1
Chiet Executive Officer
Associate Ovaectrw
Aaasstant Director
Protect
Coordinatmg Aasastant                         CoordnatEa Assistant
Accountm. Securties            Techical and
ExammoUn                     t Division 2/            Control and              Special Studiss
Comection Diviaion 3/           Don 4/
16 Professionals           18 Professionals           n1 Prolessalonassn
2 Cerical                  1 Clrical                  4 Clerical
I/ Prmwarly responsile for evaluating potential
mnttutons for accreditation and institutional evabtions of accredited iantitutions.and
end-use vrifIcatbon perfong both aurvya of pros@cis
2/ Handes desk processig of appicatone under Ow accreditation ct_ermeappplicationa 
unde the apalsd    schem  SWd the sevg of guates.
3/ Handlea  e accounti  aeciturs control and colection finctions of ICF
4/ Henda resewch ad inbormation activitiesamid reporting
requiiets to tw  E.NEDA. CS and the Revw Committee.
EK'423657



FOURTH SMALL AN  IIED ItW INlISTRIES DEVELiPNT  PRECT
Dtoil led Cost Estimtes by Nature and Purp_o of Expenditure
seem Cost                    Price Conti_neci-s                     Total Project Cost
Foreign    Loc*l   Total          Foreign    Local   Total            Foreign    Locol       Totel
Credit Line (ICU1)                       t424.0  4173.0  7697.0                -        -        _              5424.0  4173.0      7697.0
Equipment**                                12.6      1.6    14.3               0.5      0.2      0.6              12.8      2.0        14.8
Tre sing                                     .09      8.2      9.1             0.4      0.6      1.2               6.3      4.0        10.8
Consultant 4 other Serviceseo              24.4    2S.0    49.4                1.4      3.3      4.7              26.8    28.3        64.1
Total Project Cost                       3406.8  4203.0  7689.8                2.1      4.3      8.4            3466.9  4207.3      7876.2
US S million equivalent                   162.0   196.4   369.4                0.1      0.2      0.3             162.1   198.6    636.7
*  Includes co.puter hsrdeasmreeftooro and initial r-t-upjmsintonsnce contract, computer supplieos, library materials, facxs;ile
machine, pasengor vans audio/visuml display equipment.
*- Includes consultant (1.A.) and coputer encoding services, travel and subsistence costs and adeinistrative expenoes.
ero    -
egligible



53
ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND HEDItUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
Cumulative
Disbursement
Cumulative                   Profile
Bank fiscal        Disbursements a/                Philippines SMI III
year/semester      USS Million        2                   2
FY90
First                  7.5          13                  0
Second                12.3         21                  15
FY91
First                 21.5          36                 29
[          ~~~Second              31.3          52                 47
FY92
First                 42.1          70                 67
Second                54.6         91                  90
FY93
First                 57.3         95                  95
Second               60.0         100                 100
*/    Estimated disbursements conform with the disbursement profile
for the Third SMI loan credit component (net of cancellations)
adjusted for $6 million of retroactive financing.



54
ANNEX 5
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project File and Documents
I.  Documents Directly Related to the Project
A.    IGLF Financial Projections, 1988-93 (September, 1988)
B.    IGLF Summary of Operations, 1982-87
C.    IGLF Institutional Appraisal Program Guidebook, July 25, 1983
D.    IGLF Resource Performance Review Report on Metropolitan Bank and
Trust Company, 1987
E.    IGLF Resource Position as of December 31, 1987
F.    IGLF Loan Approvals Classified by Guarantee Scheme, 1981-87, and
Detail for 1987
G.    IGLF Provision for guarantee for the Six Months Ending December
31, 1987
H.    Detailed Cost Estimates for Export Component and DTI Support
Component
I.    Report on Philippine Export Finance Structure, September 1988
J.    Draft IGLF Policy Manual (October, 1988) (rhis will be replaced
in the project file with the revised Policy Manual by the date
of effectiveness)
K.    A Detailed Plan for Computerization of the Duty Drawback/
Exemption Schemes DDS, NEC/UDERDFI, October 17, 1988
L.    List of Industries Eligible for IGLF Financing, 1988
II. Consultant and Bank Report Studies
A.    Report on the Technical Assistance Component (trade Development
Institute of Ireland, November 1988)
B.    "Philippines, reform of Duty Drawback/Exemption System",
December 1987



