Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 14055
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
MARCH 15, 1995
Country Operations I Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso P
US$1.00  -  P 21.3 (at Appraisal, November 1988
US$1.00  -  P 21.2 (Average 1988)
US$1.00  -  P 21.7 (Average 1989)
US$1.00  -  P 24.3 (Average 1990)
US$1.00  -  P 26.7 (Average 1991)
US$1.00  -  P 24.7 (Average September 1992)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB  -    Asian Development Bank
CBP  -    Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP  -    Development Bank of the Philippines
DTI  -    Department of Trade and Industry
GOP  -    Government of the Philippines
IGLF -    Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
PFI  -    Participating financial Institution
SMI  -    Small and Medium Industry
TTA  -    Training and Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
GOP  -    January 1 to December 31
DBP  -    January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 15, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Philippines - Fourth Small
and Medium Industry Project (Loan 3038-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Philippines - Fourth Small and
Medium Industry (SMI) Project (Loan 3038-PH), prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional
Office, with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
This US$60 million loan was approved in April 1989 and fully disbursed in October 1992.
It was part of a long series of Bank loans aimed at providing long-term industrial credit. This
particular project also aimed at facilitating the growth of SMI exports through institutional
improvements. The loan was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank (US$100 million) and
by Japanese Government technical assistance and training (TTA) grants in the amount of US$3
million.
The PCR indicates that the project achieved its main objective of providing investment
finance to SMIs. Bank and Borrower processed the project expeditiously, disbursements were made
rapidly, the subprojects financed seem to be successful and the repayment experience was good. But
the funds went to a small number of larger firms. Instead of the 3,000 subprojects planned, with
a total employment creation of 60,000, the operation only resulted in 406 subprojects and 12,359
new jobs. The investment cost per job created was US$28,700 rather than the US$6,400 planned.
Cottage entrepreneurs received less than 1 percent of the funds. This disappointing outcome,
similar to the experience of the Third SMI Project, was due in part to lack of targeting instruments
in the project design. Exports represented less than 8 percent of the industrial output generated
by the project. Progress in achieving planned institutional improvements was minimal, owing to
wavering government support and to lack of focus in the complex ITA arrangements.
Despite these serious weaknesses, the performances of the Bank and the Borrower were
competent, and the subprojects are said to be performing well. Therefore, although the project
failed to achieve some of its more relevant objectives, its outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory.
Its institutional development impact is rated as negligible. Sustainability of project benefits, which
consist mainly of the investments financed, is rated as likely.
The PCR offers a balanced assessment. The Borrower's contribution is particularly
thorough.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
Thnis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface       .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Evaluation Summary  ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .        iii
Part I: Project Reviews from Bank's Perspective
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Background  .1...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Organization and Design ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
Project Implementation  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  3
Project Results .......................... .                                       4
Project Sustainability  ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
Bank Performance  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Borrower Performance  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Project Documentation and Data  ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Main Lessons   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   8
Proiect II:  Prolect Reviews from Borrower's Perspective   . . . . . .  9
Part III: Statistical Information
Table 1   Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Table 2 Project Time Table .92
Table 3   Loan Disbursements  ............                        .....       ..   . 93
Table 4   Total Project Costs   ..........                      ....     ...    .   . 94
Table 5  Financing Plan .................                                         95
Table 6   Participating Financial Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Table 7   SMI IV TTA Component .................                                  97
Table 8A  DBP - Income Statements 1989 - 1993    . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Table 8B  DBP - Balance Sheets 1989 - 1993  . . . . . . . . . . . .  100
Table 9   Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  101
Table 10  Loan Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  102
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
The Fourth Small and Medium Industries Development Project (Loan
3038-PH), was approved by the Board on April 25, 1989. This US$60.0
Million Loan was a folow-up to the Third Small and Medium Industries
Development Project (Loan 2169-PH), thereby providing continued financial
support to these subsectors of industry. The proceeds of Loan 3038-PH
were channelled through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), for
relending to participating financial institutions. The Loan was closed on
October 22, 1992, more than two years before the stipulated closing date
of December 31, 1994, as the Loan was drawn down more rapidly than
anticipated. The Loan is guaranteed by the Government and repayments are
current in accordance with the amortization schedule. The last
disbursement was made on October 22,1992.
The training and technical assistance component of the Project was
financed through a grant of Yen 470 million (equivalent US$3.6 million)
from the Japan Grant Facility. It remains active, and has an undisbursed
balance of US$0.58 million equivalent as of April 14, 1994.
The Project Completion Report (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III) was prepared by the (then) Industry and Energy Operations
Division of Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office.
DBP, the borrower, provided Part II and data for Part III.
The PCR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan,
Guarantee, and Japanese Grant Agreements; supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and DBP, internal Bank memoranda and
economic/sector reports, supplemented by staff interviews; DBP's financial
and audit reports; and subproject data provided by DBP.






- iii -
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
1.        The objectives of the Fourth Small and Medium Industry (SMI)
Development Project were: (a) to ensure availability of long-term resources for
SMIs' long-term financing requirements; (b) to improve SMI access to finance by
strengthening IGLF loan guarantees; (c) to offer a wide array of pre-shipment
export finance and accompanying guarantee for direct and indirect SMI exporters;
(d) to assure a more efficient duty drawback and exemption systems and better
access to bonded warehouses; (e) to provide more effective technical assistance,
delivered by the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI); and (f) to identify and
design institutional and policy reforms applicable to SMI exporters (para 3.1)
2.        The Project had three components:  (a) a credit line to IGLF,
comprising 99% of total project cost, to support its long-term project finance
and short-term export finance for SMIs during 1989-91; (b) an export component,
providing equipment and services, training and administrative costs, credit and
consultancy assistance to improve access of SMI exporters to duty
drawback/exemption, export finance/guarantee and marketing assistance and trade
information services; and (c) a DTI support component, providing training and
equipment, to strengthen DTI's regional offices, and technical assistance for
policy formulation and program design in export and industrial development (para
4.1).
3.        Of the foreign currency allocation of the IGLF Credit Component, the
entire Bank Loan of $60 million and a further $100 million from ADB were used to
meet subprojects' foreign exchange requirements. Of the Export Component's total
estimated cost of $3.0 million, $2.9 million equivalent was financed by the Japan
Grant Facility. In the case of the DTI Support Component, the Japan Grant
Facility provided the entire amount of $0.7 million equivalent (para 4.4).
4.        Due to heavy demand for term SMI financing, the Project was fully
disbursed ahead of schedule and was closed on October 22, 1992, 28 months before
the expected closing date of December 31, 1994. The Project was designed in a
way that interest rates would be fully market-determined and it established a
formula that was fully market-based. As volatile interest rate conditions
prevailed in 1990-91 when the Project was prepared, the Loan provided that the
specific elements of the formula (especially the deposit rates on which the
formula was based) be frequently reviewed during the course of the Loan and
adjustments be made appropriately. Thus, the project design provided for both
initial market orientation and for fine-tuning the formula as market conditions
developed. The TTA components required constant and careful monitoring from Bank
headquarters and during supervision in the field (paras 5.1-5.5).



- iv -
5.        The Project achieved its main objective of providing project finance
to SMIs during the period. Total credit provided to the SMI amounted to P1.8
billion. IGLF has implemented the credit component well. However, of the 3,000
subprojects planned for the period, only 406 were realized, and total investment
fell below the targeted level of P7.7 billion to P2.7 billion. During project
appraisal, it was envisioned that a larger number of smaller projects would have
produced a larger investment amount. But the PFIs' selective approach showed
their clear preference for subprojects with adequate collateral and management
(paras 6.1-6.2).
6.        Although the guarantee schemes for SMI lending remained in place, with
the collateral short guarantee coverage being improved markedly, the claims
settlement procedures were not revised. DBP maintains that since approval of the
Magna Carta for SMIs was pending at that time, undertaking improvements in this
area would be useless, and has therefore left the scheme unchanged. When the
Magna Carta was enacted, it established a new institution that provided large-
scale guarantees for SMIs. As a result, PFI demand for the relatively
insignificant IGLF guarantees remained low, with only 3.8% of IGLF loan approvals
covered. The Pre-Shipment Export Finance facility was also virtually unused as
the guarantee support, provided by Philguarantee, remained generally unacceptable
to PFIs (para 6.4).
7.        The programs under the TTA components had mixed results: (a) the duty
drawback and duty exemption schemes did not consistently enjoy Government
support, hence SMI's access to these schemes was delayed; (b) utilization of the
pre-shipment export guarantee scheme, for accredited banks and exporters, put in
place by Philguarantee, has been insignificant, as Philguarantee lacked financial
credibility; (c) trade information services proceeded slowly as the Government
had difficulty locating sufficiently broad-based supplier of library materials;
(d) project specialist and trade fairs are proceeding successfully; and (e) the
DTI support component is just currently underway (paras 6.5-6.9).
8.        The financial performance of the 170 subprojects, on which preliminary
actual data are available, shows profits at a satisfactory 12% of assets and 23%
of equity. The PFIs, using funds under the Project, were able to offer long term
loans to SMIs and, in the process, earned an average interest rate spread of
4.89%. As IGLF discontinued discounting more than 90% of the funds provided
through the Project, the PFIs have effectively contributed about P163 million in
term loans to the 406 subprojects, consolidating the PFIs' linkage with them.
DBP has handled the line of credit competently contributing to its sustainabilty.
The accreditation procedures for PFIs are well established, and carried out
satisfactorily (para 7.1).
9.        The main lessons learned are:  (a) substantial discrepancies between
planned and actual subproject targets have shown that the ultimate credit
decision in operations involving an apex arrangement, is made by the PFIs on the
basis of their perception of risks and rewards; (b) a more effective approach in
the design of a TTA component should focus on key issues, rather than on a
multiplicity of TTA items; and (c) to ensure loan utilization, interest rates of
Bank loans should be competitive with prevailing market rates (paras 11.1-11.3).



PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Project Identity
Project Name:        Fourth Small and Medium Industries
Development Project (SMI IV)
Loan No:             3038-PH
RVP Unit:            East Asia and Pacific
Country:             Philippines
Sector:              Industry
Subsector:           Private Investment
2.        Proiect Background
2.1       As with many developing countries, industrial development
thrived under the then prevalent import substitution regime where, in
addition to high protective tariffs, foreign and domestic credits were
facilitated by the Government of the Philippines (GOP) to industry. This
led to an industrial structure that was fragile, frequently inefficient
and uncompetitive. The economic crises experienced by the Philippines in
the first half of the 1980s severely affected industry; output declined by
25%, and many firms went into bankruptcy. Although sector reforms had
started since 1980, the financial crises of 1983-85 brought these to a
halt. In 1987 as growth started to pick up with the change in government,
the pace of reforms accelerated.   As a result, tariffs and incentives
were rationalized, financial policy reforms were introduced, and foreign
exchange and exchange rate management were achieved.
2.2       Term financing for small and medium industries (SMI) has largely
been provided by the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the
Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF), a rediscount guarantee
mechanism originally implemented by the Central Bank of the Philippines
(CBP), and through which Bank loans were accordingly channeled. At the
time of loan appraisal, certain significant deficiencies were noted in the
operation of the IGLF particularly in its interest rates, which did not
follow the largely market determined rates, and in its guarantee scheme,
which proved to be ineffective, constraining further SMI's access to
credit. In addition, the GOP was concerned that insufficient funds were
being invested outside Metro Manila: of the 12 regions, only 7% of IGLF
loans went to the nine less active regions. An improved IGLF guarantee
scheme was therefore envisioned, focusing on dispersal of investments to
other areas, and providing additional loans at a discount, earmarked for
specified depressed areas, to compensate participating financial



institutions (PFIs) for their higher intermediation costs outside the
active regions. The actual lending rates to SMIs within the active region
remained unaffected.
3.   Project Obiectives and Description
3.1       The Fourth Small and Medium Industry Development Project (SMI
IV) was a follow-up to three earlier Bank projects (Part III). The basic
objectives of the Project, focusing on the development of SMIs, were:  (a)
to ensure availability of long-term resources for SMIs' long-term
financing requirements; (b) to improve SMI access to finance by
strengthening IGLF loan guarantees; (c) to offer a wide array of pre-
shipment export finance and accompanying guarantee for direct and indirect
SMI exporters; (d) to assure a more efficient duty drawback and exemption
systems and better access to bonded warehouses; (e) to provide more
effective technical assistance, delivered by the Department of Trade and
Industry (DTI), by focusing on SMI growth and export orientation; and (f)
to identify and design institutional and policy reforms applicable to SMI
exporters.
4.        Project Orqanization and Design
4.1       The Project was designed with three components:  (a) a credit
line to IGLF, comprising 99% of total project cost, to support its long-
term project finance and short-term export finance for SMIs during 1989-
91; (b) an export component, providing equipment and services, training
and administrative costs, credit and consultancy assistance to improve
access of SMI exporters to duty drawback/exemption, export
finance/guarantee and marketing assistance and trade information services;
and (c) a DTI support component, providing training and equipment, to
strengthen DTI's regional offices, and technical assistance for policy
formulation and program design in export and industrial development.
4.2       Credit Line   IGLF is an entity owned by the National Economic
Development Authority and administered originally by the CBP, and later
was transferred to DBP as envisioned under the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (FSAL, Loan 3049-PH). Under the FSAL, the CBP agreed to reduce
sharply, and ultimately eliminate completely, its direct involvement in
the management of government-sponsored credit allocation programs. The
administrative responsibility for industrial sector programs (IGLF and
Apex loans) was assigned to a rehabilitated DBP so that the lending terms
and conditions, including interest rates, would be uniformly applied
(except to account for the degree of risk), and that better coordination
and more effective monitoring of the credit programs would be achieved.
4.3       IGLF is operated as an apex unit, providing PFIs with resources
for onlending to SMIs. IGLF's function is to accredit and monitor PFIs
while accredited PFIs select their own subprojects and are provided with
IGLF financing if the eligibility criteria are met. PFIs include
accredited commercial banks, private development banks, non-bank
intermediaries and other financial institutions (Part III). Due to the



PFIs' extensive branch network, IGLF has a wide geographical reach. PFIs
are responsible to repay IGLF, while subborrowers are responsible to repay
the respective PFIs. IGLF's risk is thus contained to potential non-
repayment by PFIs.
4.4       Export and DTI Support Components   These technical assistance
and training (TTA) components were designed to strengthen the export
framework, particularly for SMI exporters, by providing equipment,
technical assistance, loan financing, training and administrative
expenses, to ensure: (a) ready access to a strengthened pre-shipment
guarantee facility; (b) enhanced usage of a strengthened duty
drawback/exemption scheme; and (c) improved export marketing by continuing
marketing assistance programs and improving DTI's trade information
services (Part III).
4.5       Of the foreign currency allocation of the IGLF Credit Component,
the entire Bank Loan of $60 million and a further $100 million from ADB
were used to meet subprojects' foreign exchange requirements. Of the
Export Component's total estimated cost of $3.0 million, $2.9 million
equivalent was financed by the Japan Grant Facility. In the case of the
DTI Support Component, the Japan Grant Facility provided the entire amount
of $0.7 million equivalent. The project costs and financing plan are set
out in Part III. -
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.1       Due to heavy demand for investment credit by the SMIs, the
Project was fully disbursed ahead of schedule and was closed on October
22, 1992, 28 months before the expected closing date of December 31, 1994.
Part III details the actual implementation performance as compared to
original plans for the Project.
5.2       The Project was designed in a way that interest rates would be
fully market-determined and it established a formula that was fully
market-based. As volatile interest rate conditions prevailed in 1990-91
when the Project was prepared, the Loan provided that the specific
elements of the formula (especially the deposit rates on which the formula
was based) be frequently reviewed during the course of the Loan and
adjustments be made appropriately.  Thus, the project design provided for
both initial market orientation and for fine-tuning the formula as market
conditions developed. A small adjustment in the formula was undertaken
midway through the Project in order to make it consistent with other
projects being developed at that time.  Under the Loan, GOP carries the
foreign exchange risk in exchange for a market-related fee payable by DBP.
Because of the rapid changes in interest rates, the fixed rate option for
283 subloans proved more popular than the variable rate for 123 subloans.
The subsidized interest rates for less active regions were phased out over
a two year period in mid-1991.
5.3       IGLF operated through four divisions, has a staff trained in
project evaluation and follow-up, and accreditation and monitoring of
PFIs.  Subproject supervision was substantially undertaken by the PFIs



- 4 -
with IGLF visiting 20% of the subprojects to verify proper utilization of
funds.
5.4       After transferring the implementing role of IGLF from CBP to
DBP, the supervision of IGLF was merged with the supervision of DBP. The
transfer was a condition of the FSAL, and was also discussed and approved
during appraisal of the Project.
5.5       The TTA components required constant and careful monitoring from
Bank headquarters and during supervision in the field.  Supervision, which
is still on-going as disbursements have not yet been completed, has been
staff-intensive and time consuming.
6.   Proiect Results
Credit Component
6.1       The Project achieved its main objective of providing project
finance to SMIs during the period.  Total credit provided to the SMI
amounted to P1.8 billion. IGLF has implemented the credit component well.
Comparative subproject data as planned at appraisal and actual results are
given below:
Comparative Subproject Data
Actual                Planned
Total no. of subprojects                 406                    3,000
Total Cost                          P 2.7 billion          P 7.7 billion
Average size                        P 6.7 million          P 2.5 million
Employment                              12,359                 60,000
Incremental cost per job             US$ 28,700              USS 6,400
Employment per project                    30                     20
Debt equity ratio                       34:66                   80:20
6.2       Of the 3,000 subprojects planned for the period, only 406 were
realized, and total investment fell below the targeted level of P7.7
billion to P2.7 billion. During project appraisal, it was envisioned that
a larger number of smaller projects would have produced a larger
investment amount. The PFIs' selective approach, however, showed their
clear preference for subprojects with adequate collateral and management.
With arrears over three months at a low 0.7% of net disbursements as of
December 31, 1992, the PFIs have demonstrated the soundness of their
subproject selection methodology.  Had a large number of small projects



- 5 -
been financed, it is likely that their management and balance sheet would
have been weaker and their arrears position higher. Return on assets and
equity, based on data available for 170 approved subprojects, although
somewhat lower than projected, are still satisfactory at 12% and 23%,
respectively. Economic rates of return calculations were not required
under the Project.
6.3       The interest rate incentive, provided at GOP's request, had no
ir;.nact on the geographical dispersion of loans; a mere 7.3% by number and
4.7% by project investment went to the nine industrially least active
areas. The outcome reaffirms the Bank's experience with other similar
loans, that without adequate industrial and social infrastructure, and
frequently, related markets, entrepreneurs will not locate in
underdeveloped regions. Of the total approved subprojects, over 90% of
the number and over 80% of investment financed expansion projects.
6.4        Although the guarantee schemes for SMI lending remained in
place, with the collateral short guarantee coverage being improved
markedly, the claims settlement procedures were not revised. DBP
maintains that since approval of the Magna Carta for SMIs was pending at
that time, undertaking improvements in this area would be useless, and has
therefore left the scheme unchanged. When the Magna Carta was enacted, it
established a new institution that provided large-scale guarantees for
SMIs. As a result, PFI demand for the relatively insignificant IGLF
guarantees remained low, with only 3.8% of IGLF loan approvals covered.
The Pre-Shipment Export Finance facility was also virtually unused as the
guarantee support, provided by Philguarantee, remained generally
unacceptable to PFIs (para 6.7).
TTA Components
6.5       The status and results of the various programs under the TTA are
described below:
6.6       Initially, the Duty Drawback and Duty Exemption Schemes enjoyed
firm GOP support, but later the latter scheme was withdrawn, on the
grounds that it was being misused while the GOP's interest in the former
lagged. It was only in 1994 that GOP's support and interest were revived.
The hardware and software, financed under the Project, are now in place,
and work on the main portion of this program is expected to commence
soon. The move by GOP represents an important breakthrough and should
greatly facilitate SMIs' access to these schemes.
6.7       Utilization of the Pre-Shipment Export Guarantee Scheme, for
accredited banks and exporters, put in place by Philguarantee, has been
insignificant, as Philguarantee lacked financial credibility. The Bank
needs to look at alternative schemes and discuss its findings with GOP.
The technical assistance goals for Philguarantee, however, were achieved
with hardware and software provided and staff trained by consultants.
6.8       Trade Information Services proceeded slowly as GOP had
difficulty locating a sufficiently broad-based supplier of library



- 6 -
materials. Currently the service is operational; information materials
are received and a computer equipment is used to prepare the library
catalogue. The two ongoing programs for market development (Proiect
Specialist and Trade Fairs) are proceedi.g successfully. Appointment of
additional consultants and further studies are yet to be undertaken.
6.9       The DTI Support component, consisting of assistance to regional
offices and preparation of studies in the context of the omnibus
legislation, is currently underway. Staff training for the regional
offices has now been completed while the supply of equipment still
continues. One-stop documentation centers are operating successfully and
have proved popular with SMIs. The report on GOP's export processing
zones pointed to deficiencies in the operation of these zones and
recommended their possible privatization. Effort is now being made to
improve operations of the zones, and GOP has reconsidered their
privatization. The study on new measures for export finance has led to
the establishment of a new public sector institution, tne Small Business
Guarantee and Finance Corporation, which became operational in September,
1992. This institution supplements GOP's existing Guarantee Fund for
Small and Medium Enterprises. Although one part of the omnibus
legislation concerning this institution has been enacted, the larger part
is still under consideration.
7.   Proiect Sustainability
7.1       The financial performance of the 170 subprojects, on which
preliminary actual data are available, shows profits at a satisfactory 12%
of assets and 23% of equity. Subproject assets grew from P3.1 billion
prior to project execution to P5.8 billion after project completion. The
PFIs, using funds under the Project, were able to offer long term loans to
SMIs and, in the process, earned an average interest rate spread of 4.89%.
As IGLF discontinued discounting more than 90% of the funds provided
through the Project, the PFIs have effectively contributed about P163
million in term loans to the 406 subprojects, consolidating the PFIs'
linkage with them. DBP has handled the line of credit competently
contributing to its sustainabilty. The accreditation procedures for PFIs
are well established, and carried out satisfactorily.
7.2       DBP's financial situation remains stable.  Between 1989 and 1993
asset growth has been exceptionally strong and has increased fivefold on
account of: (a) the inflow of multilateral and bilateral funds, which
accounted for the increase in DBP's long-term lending from P4.3 billion in
1989 to P28.1 billion in 1993; (b) the P12 billion GOP deposit invested by
DBP in Treasury bills; and (c) the $175 million successful Eurobond
floatation in 1993 of P4.7 billion. DBP's long-term debt equity ratio
stood at 2.88:1 at end 1993, well below the 5.00:1 ceiling fixed under the
Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3287-PH). On the strength of an
increased and healthy wholesale portfolio, DBP's overall financial
position is sound.
7.3       Although DBP's financial performance is satisfactory, its
profitability shows a declining trend. Return on average assets has



fallen steadily from 9.4% in 1989 to 2.4% in 1993. Return on average
equity also declined from the level of 18.8% in 1989, to about 16-17% in
1990-92, to 13.7% in 1993. To stem the tide, DBP has begun to focus on
merchant banking and other activities to improve profitability through
fee-based income. Due to rapid asset growth, DBP's administrative
expenses diminished from 5.4% to 2.2% of average total assets during 1989-
92. Total administrative expenses doubled although the operating ratio
dropped to 2.5% in 1993; this is still high considering that the larger
portion (54%) of DBP's portfolio is in low cost wholesale loans (Part
III).
7.4       As the disbursement of grant funds under the TTA components of
the Project is still on-going, it is too early at this stage to determine
whether the TTA components would have achieved their objectives.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       While the project design was sound, the subproject indicators,
particularly as it relates to subproject cost, average size, and
employment generation, were overly optimistic. However, these deviations
do not reflect poor project management performance as the Bank or DBP had
no control over subproject selection. As a wholesale institution, DBP's
role is to accredit the PFIs, who in turn will determine the subprojects.
The subprojects approved by the PFIs have so far performed satisfactorily.
8.2       Overall, the TTA component was a first step in improving export
administration, and was meant to be followed-up with an export development
project.  The TTA provided under the Project consisted of about 20
discreet programs relevant to the export sector. Each of these required
considerable amount of Bank staff time, supervision and broad-based
monitoring. In view of this complex TTA arrangements and the lack of
prioritizing, implementation has been diffused with each program receiving
the same qualitative attention and resources. The impact of the TTA would
have been far more meaningful had it been more focussed on key issues.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       Project execution by IGLF and DBP was undertaken with remarkable
efficiency. Subloans were processed on time and disbursements were made
rapidly. While all indications suggest that approved subprojects will be
successful, neither IGLF nor DBP had raised the issue of substantively
larger than defined size of subproject approvals.
9.2       DBP's future role and operations is a subject of ongoing
discussion with the Bank. The Bank, through its supervision of active
projects, will be actively involved in developing DBP's future business
plans. DBP sought and the Bank provided its input in the design of DBP's
revised institutional development plan, as provided in the Loan Agreement.
9.3       DBP and DTI's overall implementation of the TTA components,
although uneven in some aspects, has been satisfactory, considering the
magnitude and scope of the TTA. The system of one-stop documentation



- 8 -
centers, for example, is working successfully and proved to be popular
with SMIs while the duty drawback scheme, one of the more important part
of the TTA, has been delayed; only in early 1994 was some meaningful
impetus been given to it.
10. Proiect Documentation and Data
10.1      DBP has complied satisfactorily with the reporting requirements
under the Project, although submission of audit reports were slow. Audits
of the financial statements, statement of expenditures (SOE) and the
special account conducted by the Commission on Audit (COA) on IGLF and DBP
have been satisfactory and all the auditor's opinion were clean. However,
the 1991 audit of the SOE and the Special Account conducted by COA on
DTI's implementation of the TTA component were qualified audits. The
Bank-required reports were sufficient in terms of frequency and adequacy,
however, the format of the reports could have been improved, enabling
comparison of planned against actual subproject indicators. DBP's
contribution, in the preparation of Part II of the PCR, was useful and
timely.
10.2      The submission of the required audit reports for DTI's use of
the SOE and the special account was problematic. The 1991 audits were 14
months overdue and the i992 and 1993 audits were not received at all.
11. Main Lessons
11.1      The substantial discrepancies between planned and actual
subproject targets have shown that the ultimate credit decision in
operations involving an apex arrangement, is made by the PFIs on the basis
of their perception of risks and rewards. The PFIs' selective approach
and clear preference for collateralized loans, and borrowers with good
management, and track record, in the medium (as opposed to the small)
industry, have resulted in quick disbursement of the loan and satisfactory
subproject performance.
11.2      A more effective approach in the design of a TTA component
should focus on key issues, rather than on a multiplicity of TTA items.
The supervision and broad-based monitoring requirements of the complex TTA
arrangement under the Project have dispersed staff resources and
attention, and may have weakened the impact of the TTA.
11.3      To ensure loan utilization, interest rates of Bank loans should
be competitive with prevailing market rates. The Project's interest rate
approach, which was fully market-oriented and flexible, set a new standard
for establishing interest rates based on market conditions and has been
widely emulated in other Bank projects.



- 9 -
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



I



11
FOURT S~&L AD EDIT US TIES DEv ELOP~N PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 3038-PHI



I



13
PHIUPPINES
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE & LOAN FUND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Loan No. 3038-PHI
SUMMARY
A.    Loan Summary
1.    Loan Amnount               :      US $ 60 million
2.    Effectivity Date           :      May 31, 1989
3.    Estimated Closing Date     :      December 31, 1994
Actual Closing Date              October 22, 1992
4.    Approvals:
Total Loan Granted         :      1.81 billion
IGLF Portion              :      P1.58 billion
PFI Portion               :         .16 billion
5.    Disbursements              :      US $ 60.0 million equivalent to 121.58
billion in actual releases or peso
generation rate of P26.32 to US $1
6.    Repayment Schedule:
IGLF to WS                :      September 1, 1994 to March 1, 2009
PFI to IGLF               :      September 24, 1990 to July 8, 2003
IE to PFI                 :      September 24, 1990 to July 8, 2003
Term                       :     Average maturity of 5.86 years
inclusive of average grace period of
1.15 yrs.
7.    Interest Rates:
WB to IGLF                 :     1/2 of 1% over cost of qualified
borrowings
IGLF to PFI               :      16.02% ave.
PFI to IE                 :      21.11% ave.



14
PART II
B.     Project Summary
1.     Objectives:         i)      To continue the provision of long term
resources for long term financing needs of
the SMI sector.
ii)    To ensure that the access of SMI firms to
finance is improved by strengthening the
IGLF guarantee.
iii)    To finance short-term pre-shipment export.
2.     Credit Component    :       The total financing requirement of P12.81
billion was shared with the PFIs to distribute
the risk. Total PFI participation amounted to
R163 million or 9% of total loans instead of
10% due to 100% rediscounting of loans
pertaining to retroactive financing and export
credits.
Since Loan No. 3038-PHI is a follow-up of
three previous World Bank loans, utilizaton
was skewed in favor of expansion projects.
The bulk of the loan approvals representing
85% or equivalent to P12.537 billion for 370
projects were related to expansion of plant
capacities.
As to loan purposes, the ratio of fixed assets
acquisition to working capital stood at 1:2.15.
While loans extended under the export
packing/production  credits  to  exporters
accumulated to only P26.5 million for 6
projects. This is only about 1.5% of total
loans granted.
In terms of industry size, the market niche is
the medium size category with an availment
of 11.44 billion against total loans granted of
11.81 billion. In short, Loan No. 3038-PHI
provided funds that sustained the growth of
the medium-size enterprises.
3.     Guarantee Coverage  :       In addition to the credit facility, the guarantee
scheme available, covered loans with peso
value of R68.4 million representing 3.8% of
total approved loans. Guarantees extended
to 27 projects under the credit risk guarantee
is 3 times higher than collateral short which
was availed of only by 9 subloans.



15
PART 11
Measures adopted to strengthen the
guarantee mechanisms were the expansion
of guarantee coverage and the annual
provision of an amount equivalent to the
guarantee fees collected during the year plus
reserve for loan losses of P5 million a year.
4.    General Characteristics of Approvals:
a)    Preloan asset size - Average preloan
size of all lEs financed under the
loan was Q7.6 million.
b)    Loan size - Average loan size of
P4.5 million.
c)    Employment generated - Additional
12,359 workers.
d)    Regional dispersal - Volumewise,
63% of the projects financed are
located in NCR.   Valuewise, it
accounted 70 %.
Projects financed outside the
National Capital Region are thinly
scattered all over the countryside
except Regions VIII and XII.
e)    Industry sector - Top three availees
are: appareVfootwear subsector with
18%, chemical and chemical
products   with 13%  and metal
industry with 10%.
C.    Project Implementation
1.    Relending                  :     As of December 31, 1992, there
were 42 accredited PFIs as follows:
Commercial Banks                 17
Private Development Banks         7
Non-Bank Financial Inst.          9
Specialized Govemment Banks       2
Thrift/Rural Banks                7
42



16
PART II
2.    Onlending                   :     The commercial banks originated
50% of the number of subprojects
and 58% of the total loan granted.
Private development banks followed
with 24% of the number and 29% of
the total loan. Other banks ranked
third with 15% of the number and
14% of the amount.
Participation of rural banks is very
minimal at Q41 0 thousand under the
sponsorship  scheme.    The
sponsorship program is not funded
under the loan component of the
credit project.
3.    Project supervision               Under  the  IGLF  accrediation
scheme, DBP delegated all subloan
appraisal  and  supervision
responsibilities to the PFls. Since
the credit risk remained with PFIs,
they were free to select their own
projects for financing under the
eligibility criteria.
Processing time of DPP on approved
PFl's subloan application was 2 to 5
working days, while PFI releases to
IE averaged 6 to 7 working days.
End-use verifications were conducted
from representative sample equal to
20% of the projects to ensure proper
utilization of loan proceeds. Priority
in the conduct of project verification
was guided by PFI's arrears level
and  renewal  of  accreditation
statustannual reviews.
4.    Status of Accounts Financed Under Loan 3038 (As of 12-31-92):
PFI to DBP    -     Up-to-date inclusive of prepayments
IE to PFI    -      10%  fully paid primarily due to
pretermination
83% in current status
7% in arrears status



17
PART 11
5.     Organization/Management Structure:
The policy making authority rests on the
Review Committee composed of a
representative each from NEDA, DOF, UP-
ISSI, DTI, CBP and DBP.  The NEDA
representative acts as the Chairman while the
DBP representative who is the incumbent
head of FIG acts as the CEO for IGLF.
The two basic operational groupings are
marketing and support services within DEP.
Marketing includes general administration and
mobilization of the fund which are handled by
the  Financial Institutions Group.   The
activities includes the institutional appraisal of
accredited  financial  institutions  and
processing of loan applications.
Support services consisting of servicing
receivables from loan accounts and payables
to the funders which is handled by the
Transaction  Processing  Department,
preparation of financial statements rendered
by Accounting Dept. in coordination with
Cash Dept.
6.    Training:                   The Human  Resource Center of DBP
conducts training/seminars to develop the
managerial skills of staff. Resource speakers
come from leading business schools and
well-known personalities in the business
community.
Account officers of FIG attended six (6)
month course on packaging of loans based
on the financial requirements of the business
enterprise.
In addition to courses on lending skills,
seminars on management tools, client
relationship, development banking principles,
economic development and cultural value
formation were also attended by FIG staff.
D.    Comments
i)    The loan proceeds ensured the continued
supply of funds that assisted the growth of
the SMI sector primarily those located in
Metro Manila area.



18
PART 11
ii)    Despite the credit support in terms of
guarantee facility - sponsorship scheme and
preferential rates in selected areas -
availments of credit by cottage and small
enterprises from the countryside were still at
low levels.
iii)    Recent developments that will improve the
marketability/eligibility features of IGLF
lending program are the following:
-      redefinition of CSMI, issued by the
Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Council under
Department of Trade and Industry
-     complementation  with  GFSME
(Guarantee Fund for Small and
Medium Enterprise)
iv)    On the other hand, access to credit by
cottage and small entrepreneurs at R367
million against total approvals of 1i1.81 billion
is insignificant considering the relaxation of
interest rates, credit support from guarantee
features and sponsorship scheme. The gap
between the PFIs and the lEs is not only due
to the availability of affordable funds in the
banking sector but also to other factors
related to creditworthiness of lEs and viability
of projects.
v)    The introduction of a market-determined
interest  rate  formulation  created  a
destabilizing shift over the periods and invited
exploitation by IEs of interest rate differences
as  rates vary  every  quarter.   As a
consequence, prepayment of loans granted
when rates were higher are rampant from lEs
with high liquidity position. Re-availments are
requested when the need arises usually when
interest rates are low.
Similarly, the availability of OECF funds for
SMEs at 2% lower than market also
encourages the pretemmination of IGLF-
funded loans to take advantage of interest
rate variance.



19
PART II
II.      DETAILS
A.    The World Bank granted to IGLF Loan 3038-PHI under the credit component of the
Fourth Small and Medium Industries Development Project. This project completion
report (PCR) is undertaken in view of the full utilization of the loan. The last
disbursement was made on August 31, 1992. 1/
B.    Methodology.
The PCR describes the utilization of the loan proceeds, accomplishment of the
purposes of the loan, costing, performance by borrowers and DBP of their obligations
under the loan agreement. The following steps and procedures were accomplished:
1.    Prepared a listing of the 406 subprojects approved for financing together with
the data on the loan, project and borrower.
2.    Evaluated the actual releases to the investment enterprises against the
purposes of the loan; and
3.    Assessed the financial performance of a representative sample of the
beneficiaries (42% of the total loans released) based on the data available
after the loan release to the investment enterprises.
C.    Loan Evaluation
1.    Availment.
Withdrawal of loan proceeds was estimated to last up to December 1993. In
addition, subioan releases for the 6-month period prior to the effectivity date
of May 31, 1989 were allowed as retroactive financing under the loan.
Actual availment period from IGLF to PFls ran a period of 3.5 years. On the
other hand, the disbursement of loan from WB to the Philippine Govemment
of 3.5 years matched actual availment of the loan by the PFIs. The rate of
mobilization of funds almost approximated the planned disbursement although
full utilization was achieved a year ahead of schedule due to the retroactive
financing.
The graph in Exhibit 1 showed that actual disbursement follows the slope of
the planned rate. It likewise illustrated that disbursement is faster during the
second semester of the year which coincides with the need of funds of the
manufacturing sector to sustain investory build-up for the Christmas season.
Actual withdrawal of loan proceeds from WB to Philippine Govemment and
IGLF to PFls almost leveled off on two points, which were year-end 1990 and
1991.
1/ Per Bank records, the last disbursement was made
October 22, 1992.



20
PART II
2.    Disbursement of Funds From IGLF to PFlsIIEs
Retroactive financing of up to US $6 million under the terms and standards of
SMI Ill (Loan No. 2169-PHI) within six months prior to effectivity date of SMI
IV (Loan No. 3038-PHI) propelled rapid disbursement to PFIs/lEs and
sustained the financial assistance given to the SMI sector.
Releases of IGLF funds from DBP to PFis was maintained at two to five
working days, while disbursement of funds from PFIs to the lEs took six to
seven days.
3.    Interest rates:
The pricing of loan focused on market-oriented interest rate policy. The pass-
on rates to PFls were based on time deposit rates. Starting 1989 up to the
first semester of 1992, interest rate formulation was based on WAIR of 6-
months TOs of preceding period. It was observed that the determination of
rates using historical basis did not result to responsive market rates. Effective
the second semester of 1992 up to the full utilization of the loan, interest rate
basis was changed to WAiR of 61-90 day TD prevailing during the 2nd week
of month-end of quarter as published by CBP.
Based on the above formulation, pass on rates to PRs ranged from 10% to
19.9% during the drawdown period. Spread charged by PFIs to end users
ranged from 3% to 1 1%. Annex 3 gives a comparison of IGLF rates prevaifing
during the implementation to selected domestic interest rates. Profiles of
spreads charged by the PFis to the end users can be found in Annex 1.
Generally, private development banks and thrift bank/rural banks charge higher
spread to clients.
From DSP side, the remaining balance of Loan No. 3038 PH transferred from
C8P are direct borrowings of DBP from IGLF. Interest rates were also based
on market determined pass-on rates to PFI and the withholding tax.
Borrowings are documented through the Certificate of Time Deposits (CTD)
instead of a Promissory Note (PN).
D.    Project Evaluation
1.    Thrusts / Objectives
The strategic mission of the credit project deals with the promotion/growth of
SME sector to generate employment, enhance income distribution to alleviate
poverty. The tactical approach includes the provision of loanable funds for
long term needs for the acquisition of fixed assets and permanent working
capital, short term needs inclusive of export packing credit, and credi support
through the access of guarantee facilities built in the program.
2.    Cost of Credit Project
The aggregate cost of the 406 projects that availed of the loan proceeds was
R2.69 billion. The cost is shared by the proponents' equity of P950 million and
from borrowings of P11.81 billion. The actual debt equity ratio of 65:35
compared with the required 80:20 ratio showed higher participation of the IEs.



21
PART II
The loan portion of the project cost of 1i1.81 billion is co-financed by the PFI
originating the loan corresponding to a matching ratio of 9:1. About R163
million was loaned out by the PFR intended to stimulate the PFls continued
interest on the project over the life of the loan. The details of the availments
can be found in the list of the investment enterprises benefited by Loan 3038-
PHI.
Expansion projects gamered R12.54 billion of the loans granted for 370
subprojects consisting of R1.51 billion for 364 term loans, P2.07 million for 2
export packing credit loans and 124.2 million for production credit loans. Start-
up projects accounted for 1494 million for 36 terrn loans. Exhibit 2 shows the
distribution of the loan approvals by nature and purpose of the loans.
Rediscounting at 100% from IGLF funds includes those approved under the
retroactive financing, export packing credit and production credit for exporters.
3.    Guarantee Facilities
The guarantee support built in the credit project is available upon the request
of the PFI . The salient features includes 2% guarantee fee to cover collateral
deficiency, insufficient historical track record and administrative costs of credit
evaluation.
To strengthen the guarantee scheme, the level of coverage for the collateral
short guarantee for cottage and srmall-sized firms was further improve from
25% of loan amount to 60% or 100% of the unsecured portion of the loan
whichever is lower.
Loans enrolled under guarantee cover represented 3.8% of total loan
approvals amounting to e68.4 million. There were 27 projects admitted under
the credit risk guarantee scheme while 9 projects were covered under the
collateral short guarantee. Subprojects with guarantee cover can be found in
Annex 1.
The issue against the guarantee features is the claim procedure. Assessment
made to introduce a change in the claim procedure would entail major
structural adjustments in the allocation of funds, organization and legal
documentation which are too costly for the lending program.
4.    General characteristics of loan approvals.
The loan approvals were biased to the medium size industry with a total
availment of P12.44 billion versus total loan granted of R1.81 billion.
Percentage-wise, this sector accounted 78% in terms of amount and 57% in
relation to number of projects granted. On the other hand, small and cottage
industry availed 1368 million only for 174 projects, despite the back-up credit
mechanism on guarantee coverage, sponsorship scheme and preferential
interest rates in selected areas. Exhibit 3 shows graphically the distribution of
availments to each subsector.
Preloan total asset of P3.09 billion increased to P5.78 billion after financing or
87% growth rate. Average preloan asset size of P7.6 million expanded to
P14.2 million after financing. The expansion in asset size is also duplicated



22
PART II
by the corresponding increase in employment from preloan level of 32,890
workers to 55,339 after financing. Average loan amounts extended were in the
conservative figures of 14.5 million per loan.
Due to volatile interest rates, 283 [Es preferred fixed rate as against 123 who
opted for the variable rate. Spreads by PFIs ranged from 3% to 11 % with the
private development banks and thrift banks in the countryside generally
charging higher spreads on their clients. Average interest rate of all approvals
is 16.02% from IGLF to PFI and 21.11% from PFI to IE.
Processing of applications received from PFIs is prescribed for two working
days if documents are in order. Including those approved by CBP processing
time ranged from 2 to 5 working days while releases to PFIs averaged 6.27
calendar days.
Regional Dispersal
In terms of value and volume of loans, the trend is biased for NCR that availed
70% or R12.3 billion of the loanable funds. The pattem continued to favor
urbanized regions such as Region l1l, IV, VII, XI, and VI. All together these
regions accumulated 25% of the total approvals. The remaining 5% was
absorbed by the other six regions since no project was financed in Region Vill
and XII. Details of geographical distribution of loan approval can be found in
Exhibit 4. -
The regional distribution of loans is closely related to the economy of the
locality. There appears a strong correlation in the presence of banks and loan
origination. Location of banks is top heavy in the regions that actively
generated SMI loans as compared to areas with no or insignificant number
of SMI projects. There are 1,450 banks/branches (76% of total branches)
located in top five urbanized centers and only 208 (11%) in the places with
no SMI loans (last five regions). Equally important in the branching network
is the focus on fund generation rather than lending which are concentrated in
the head office.
The behavior on regional lending is also affected by the market forces of
supply and demand of projects financed. Top availees belong to the
appareVfootwear, chemical products, metal industry, textiles/cordage.twine,
food items, paper products which represents 68% of total approvals whose
operations are heavily dependent on the availability of raw materials and
market served, both of which are in the metropolis of Metro Manila, except for
food products that accounts 8% only.
Another disadvantaged position of the SMI sector as compared with the large
industries is the access to the basic infrastnictures such as water, gas, power,
telephones. These are easily integrated to the operational set-up of the large
industries. These are in addition to the availability of roads and transport
facilities.
Sectoral Distribution
Consumer goods led by the appareVfootwear subsector ranked first in the list
of subprojects financed in number and amount. Intermediate goods bannered
by the chemical and chemical products is second. Capital goods headed by



23
PART II
the metal industry followed as third. The miscellaneous industries and other
services is last. Distribution of loan approvals by industry sector is found in
Exhibit 5.
E.    Prolect Implementation
1.    Relending of IGLF
DBP as a wholesale bank and administrator of IGLF does not lend directly to
end-users but channels project funds through PFIs.
a.    Accreditation Scheme:
For PFls to be able to avail of IGLF financing, they have to apply and
pass DBP's accreditation criteria. Accreditation involves a detailed
quantitative and qualiative evaluation of the applicant-institutions'
performance. As of December 31, 1992, there were forty two (42)
accredited PFIs qualified to avail of IGLF fund consisting of 17
commercial banks (KBs), 7 private development banks (PDSs), 9 non-
bank financial intermnediaries (NBFls), 2 specialized govemment bank
(SGBs) and 7 thrift/rural banks (RBs). List of accredited PFIs active
in IGLF lending is in Annex 6.
After the conduct of institutional review of PFls annually, an omnibus
credit line is determined based on the rating obtained above and
capital position. The credit line is good for all of the wholesale
facilities available wherein IGLF is one of them. The approved credit
line and number of branches of each PFI can also be found in Annex
6.
The bulk of releases under loan 3038-PHI were coursed through the
commercial banks which originated 58% of the amount released and
50% of the subprojects financed. In tum the non-bank financial
intermediaries were at the bottom position originating only 1%. Private
development banks/rural banks accounted for 24% of the total cost of
subprojects and 28%  of the number.  The details of the loan
origination can be found in Exhibit 6.
Though 1,000 branches/banks are operating in the countryside, the
level of lending activity is limited to identification of projects and
packaging of credits are handled by the head office account
management group. Some big banks have started to decentralize
their special lending units.
b.    Sponsorship Scheme:
As of December 31, 1992, there are five (5) rural banks accredied
under the sponsorship scheme with total exposure of 13.89 million.
Under the sponsorship scheme, accredited rural banks solicit loan
applications in their territories. The loan applications are evaluated in
accordance with their respective credh policies and IGLF documentary
requirements. The rural banks upon approval of the applications,
submit them to IGLF for evaluation and validation.  IGLF then



24
PART II
conducts project verification prior to approval and release of the loan.
Funds released to rural banks under this scheme were funded under
the counterpart component of the credit project. Credit risk under this
scheme remained with the IGLF.
2.     On-lending
Under the accreditation status, DBP delegates all subloan appraisal and
supervision responsibilities to the PFls. Since credit risk remains with the
PFls, they are free to choose which projects to finance under the broad
eligibility criteria.
The PFI is responsible for the evaluation of the project, the financing package
based on the real needs of the borrower, and the overall feasibility of the
project. The appraisal follows various stages involving scanning of the industry
where the project belongs. It includes marketing, technical management and
financial analysis of the proposed project. A plant visit is conducted to have
a first-hand view of the operation. A project evaluation report is then prepared
for the approval of the Ex-Com/Board of the PFi. The project evaluation report
is submitted to D8P-IGLF together with subloan application.
DBP conducts a cursory review of the subloan application and do not duplicate
the evaluation undertaken by the PFI.
3.     Performance
Representative Sample - Based on available data from 170 projects that were
granted loans worth R688 million representing 38% in number and 42% in
amount of total approvals, estimated sales of R3.52 billion fell short by 8%
versus actual sales of P3.28 billion. Likewise, projected profit of P337 million
against actual profit of 1263 million reflected 21% shortage.
Estimated total sales of R3.92 billion includes projected export sales of P258
million, but actual sales figure reported totalling 23.28 billion combined the
export and domestic sales generated.
Recovery rate in relation to assets was down by 3% from 15% to 12%, while
return on equity diminished by 7% from 30% to 23%. However, the actual
rates of return were above the market rates of alternative investments in TDs
and T-Bills. The list of the representative sample can be found in Annex 2.
Equity grew from preloan level of 1858 million to 1.14 billion or an increase of
33%.
Repayment performance of the IEs financed under Loan 3038-PHI was
satisfactory despite the shortfall in estimated profits. As of December 31, 1992
only 42 accounts with total loan amount of P130 million are in arrears with 90
% of the arrearages below three months. There are 323 accounts which are
in current status while the rest have paid/prepaid their account.



25
PART II
F.    Organizational Structure
1.    Management - The Fund is owned by the National Government represented
by NEDA. It is currently administered by the DSP since August 1, 1990 when
its administration was transferred from CBP. A Review Committee (RC)
created under the terms of the Counterpart Project Agreement No. 32. as
amended, oversees the operations of the Program. This committee is
composed of a representative each from NEDA, CBP, DBP, DOF, UP-ISSI
with the NEDA representative as Chairman. The Head of the Financial
Institutions Group of DBP acts as CEO for IGLF and ex-officio member of the
Review Committee.
A Technical Advisory Group (TAG) composed of selected technical personnel
from the member-agencies of the RC provides staff support to the committee.
The TAG is under the supervision of the CEO of IGLF.
2.    Administration - The Project Management Department II, FIG-DBP directly
handles the administration of IGLF, monitoring the overall profitability,
efficiency and effectiveness of the Fund. The department has a personnel
complement of fourteen (14) regular employees as of December 31, 1992.
These regular employees are supported by eight (8) casual employees. It
markets the credit and guarantee facilities of the IGLF to banks and non-bank
financial institutions. They receive and process loan applications from PFis for
funding and prepare and submit reports to the Review Committee and the
Funders. Annex 6 is the organizational chart of PMD II -FIG showing the
distribution of the personnel among the three (3) groups comprising the
department. Groups 1 & 2 handle the IGLF accounts and directly liaise with
PFIs availing from the Fund. Group 3 is assigned the Cottage Enterprise
Finance Projects (CEFP).
3.    Operation - Other units of DBP doing IGLF related functions in support of FIG-
PMD II are the foilowing:
a.    Accreditation and Management Information Department - FIG: A
department within FIG that accredits PFIs for eligibility as conduits for
all wholesale lending programs. This unit also controls line availments
of PFls.
b.    Loan Processing II - Transaction Processing Department (LP II -
TPD): This unit is in charge of the liabilities servicing of IGLF with the
Funders. It initiates and records the various payments to funders
through the Bureau of Treasury (BT).
c.    LP IlIl - TPD: This unit is in charge of the accounts servicing of all
funds placed with the PFls. It handles billing, receipt and application
of payment to each account.
d.    Cash Department: This unit handles all the deposit accounts and
investments of free cash resources of IGLF. It releases actual money
placement to the PFIs.
e.    Accounting Department: This unit is primarily responsible for the
general ledger of IGLF.



26
PART II
G.    Summary and Remarks
1.    Relending of funds through the PFis was largely to medium-sized industries
which gobbled 80% of the loanable funds and 57% of the projects financed.
Understandably, the industry mix favoring the larger firms in the sector
reaffirmed the utilization of the of the majority of the funds to expansion
purposes. The loan package continued to assist the growth of manufacturing
outfits which have established creditworthiness among PFRs, while access of
21 cottage entrepreneurs represented less than 1% of total amount approved.
2.    The IGLF is one of the oldest special lending program in the market available
to PFis through the wholesale banking mechanism.  Accordingly, the
performance of Loan No. 3038-PHI in matters of accreditation, availment and
disbursement of funds, collection and repayment of loans were already in
place.
3.    Improvements of the strategies for relending of the second generation funds
are as follows:
a.    Studied the issue of adopting a guarantee scheme to pay past due
loans upon notice of default.  Since a govemment sponsored
guarantee institution, Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium
Enterprises (GFSME) serves the same clientele of IGLF, a
complementation work program was devised. A PFI can avail of a
loan under IGLF and guarantee cover from GFSME under a one-stop-
shop evaluation at FIG-DEP.
b.    The existing eligibility criteria on asset size and loan size were last
redefined in 1987. To align IGLF operations with the market, Small
and Medium Enterprise Development Council under DTI approved on
November 26, 1992 the redefinition of cottage, small, and medium
industries as follows:
Micro        -      1 00,000 and below
Cottage      -      above 2100,000 - 21,000,000
Small        -      above R1,000,000 - R10,000,000
Medium       -     above R1O,000,000 - R40,000,000
IGLF promptly upgraded maximum subloan size allowable to R40
million under the accreditation scheme and R500 thousand under the
sponsorship scheme subject to PFI's single borrowers limit and
debttequity ratio of 80:20.
c.    Starting July 1993, a new formula to determine pass-on rate was
implemented. The new formula used as basis WAIR of 61-90 day
T-BilIs rather than TDs. The formula was revised to cover break-
even cost of the fund and provide a premium for the foreign
exchange risks of the longer maturity loans.



27
Page 1                                                                                  Exhibit I
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN 3038-PHI
ESTIMATED VS. ACTUAL
ESTIMATED              ACTUAL                 ACTUAL
BANK FISCAL            WB-IGLF                WB-IGLF                 IGLF-PFI
YEAR/SEMESTER            (USS MM)         %     (US S MM)        %      (PI MM)       %
1988 FIRST
SECOND                                                                 50     3.16%
1989 FIRST                                                               182    11.52%
SECOND                                           6.0    10.00%        274    17.33%
1990 FIRST                  7.5    12.50%         10.0    16.59%        419    26.54%
SECOND                   12.3    20.50%         32.1    53.53%        872    5523%
1991 FIRST                 21.5    35.83%         36.0    63.28%       1,162    73.61%
SECOND                   31.6    52.67%         54.4    90.71%       1,440    91.21%
1992 FIRST                 42.1    70.17%         54.4    90.71%       1575    99.72%
SECOND                   54.6    91.00%         60.0   100.00%       1579   100.00%
1993 FIRST                 57.3    95.50%
SECOND                   60.0   100.00%
NOTE. Estimated cumulative disbursement taken from Staff Appraisal Report, SMI IV, 3115189
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
ESnIMATED VERSUS ACTUAL RATE
z O -=                  --          -              C- -
Z        0.9
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1 
JUNE '88    JUNE '89    JUNE '90    JUNE '91    JUNE '92  1JUNE '93
DEC. '88    DEC. '89    DEC. '90    DEC. '91    DEC. '92    DEC. '93
0  ESTiMATED WB-IGLF      0  ACTUAL W8-IGLF     A, ACTUAL IGLF-PFI



28
Page 2                                                                                   Exhibit 1
AMOUNT (P'OOO,000)
W/A                          DATE OF   DATE OF DIFFERENCE-
NO.  PARTICULARS          APPUCAT1ON PAYMENT   (DAYS)            US S      PESO    FX RATE
1 Initial Deposit         N. A.       N. A.                     6.00
2 Reimbursement            12111189    N. A.                             182.51     NA.
3 Reimbursement           02/28190   03/21/90          21       3.95      87.77    22.19
4 Reimbursemont            08121190   09/11/90         21       1.10      27.45    25.00
5 Reimbursement            08121/90   09/11/90         21       2.58      64.62    25.00
6 Reimbursement            028190   09/11/90           14       &45      211.26    25.00
7 Reimbursement            09/20/90   10/05190         15      10.03    25&30      25.75
8 Reimbursement            02118191   03/05/91         15       1.92      53.59    27.94
9 Uquldation               05/23/91   06106891         14       3.93     109.46    27.82
10 Reimbursement           09/11/91   09/27/91          16      10.94    296.27     27.00
11 Reimbursement           0911891   10102/91           14       5.52     148.66    26.93
12 Uquidation              07/30192   08/24r92          25       0.07       1.80    27.37
13 Reimbursement            08/25/92   09/17192         23       5.34    134.41     25.15
14 Reimbursement            10/09192   10/22192         13       0.16      3.95     24.30
60.00   1 579.04    26.32
NOTE: Assumed 3 mos. from effectvity date (5/31/89) of Loan 3038-PHI



29
Exhibit 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
NATURE AND PURPOSE OF LOANS UNDER 3038-PHI
In Thousand Pesos
TOTAL       TOTAL       TOTAL       TOTAL       TOTAL
PROJECT       LOAN      WORKING      FIXED    IE EQUITY
NATURE OF                       COST      GRANTED    CAPITAL        ASSET    INFUSION
PROJECT                NO.    (P'000)      (P'000)      (P'000)     (P'000)     (1OOO)
EXPANSION               370    2,198,324    1,537,955   1,125,717    412,238     726.720
TERM LOAN              364    2,171,854    1,511,485   1,099,247     412,238    726,720
EXPORT PACKING           2        2,070       2,070       2,070           0           0
PRODUCTION CREDIT        4       24,400      24,400      24,400           0           0
NEW                      36      494,071     270,395     108,431      161,964    223.676
TOTAL    406   2692.395    1,808,350   1,234,148      574,202    950,396
AVERAGE                 6,632       4,454      3,040        1,414      2341
LOAN DISTRIBUTION
.'r COSr ANO ATURt OF PROJ -.:Cr
.  .   ...  .NW (1a.4                                   --  - 
DXMSIOIN-PCL .L
~~PA~~~IStON-(PCL (0.1AWON7L(807X
LOAN DISTRIBUTION
BY LOAN PUPtPOSE ANO AMOUNT
PmXCO AZZCT (31.4K)
WORKING CAPfrAL (66.2X)



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
Q           0    .  o  X   g;   .  .  ;;   .   -    i.~~~~~~~~~~I.  I   ) 
0 M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
0 c~
IIiIiL.AlllRflill
I   f;     7-;0..t.T't;'l;u 2            1ii1
I.                           '    '                          'I                                      
*                                            .   UI                   I m



31
Echibit 4
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
DISTRIBUllON OF LOAN 3038-PHI
BY GEOGRAPHICAL LOCAMON
TOTAL                ACTUAL
PROJECT                LOAN                 NUUBER
COST               GRANTED                OFJOBS
SIMON        NUMBER    %          (P000)       %        (P000o)      %      GENERATID
I                       1      0.2%        1.887     0.1%        1,500     0.1%          10
It                      1      0.2%       22.000     0.8%      18.000      1.0%          32
III                    34      8.4%      209,632     7.8%     151,290      8.4%         686
IV                     52     12.8%      303.596    11.3%     18285        9.3%         a85
NCR                   255    *628%    1.894,361     70.4%    1,305.802    72.2%        9,796
V                       4      1.0%        4,415     0.2%       3,845      0.2%          11
VI                      a      2.0%       48,779     1.8%      24,310  -  1.3%          238
Vii                    35      .6%      155,895     5.8%     100,025      5.5%         631
VII                     0      0.0%           0      0.0%           0      0.0%           0
IX                      1      0.2%         203      0.0%         153       .a%           0
X                       4       1.0%      14,769     0.5%       8,985      0.5%          66
XI                     11      2.7%       35S858     1.3%      26,155      1.4%          31
XII                     0      0.0%           0      0.0%           0      0.0%           0
-   -
TOTAL       406              2,692,395             1,808.350                12,359
-GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION  OF' PROJECTS
WY' AMOUNr OF PROjEC? COr.'
. . :    . -   N s     :.:O1THE   (4.s%) . ..-
.- : >: RBft~QON vi (5  7.a -.
RGON. taot (7.4S).



32
EKhibit S
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN 3038-PHI
BY INDUSTRY SECTOR
TOTAL           ACTUAL
NATURE        PRE-LOAN          PROJECT            LOAN              IGLF         PFI      NUMBER
INDUSTRY          OF SUB-       ASSET SIZE          COST            GRANTED           SHARE       SHARE    OF JOBS
CLASS           PROJECT  U       (P0C0o)    %     (PoO)    %        (P'000)    %     (P'000)     (P'000)  GENERATE   %
Capital Goods Indui.s
MACHINERYIAPPUANCES            13   4%    117.264   4%    126.123   5%         90.053   5%       81.047       9.006        310   3M4A
METAL INDUSTRY                 41  10%    319.U7  10%    258.314  10%    190.605  10%    170,714             19.890        716   6%
MINING & QUARRYING              3    1%      25,209   1%      49.300   2%      26.000   1%       23.400      2.000          2    0%
TRANSJEOPT. & REPAiR            9   2%       67.419   2%      58.175   2%      39.e00    2%     38.810       4.090         400   4%
71  17%    529.479  17%    491.912   18%    345,258  19%    310.671          34.5U6       1.544  12%
Cansumwr Goods Induis
APPARELIFOOTWEAR               73  18%    484.194  16%    484.718  17%b   33.131s  19%    211.511           21.t24       3.5ft  26%
FOOD & FOOD PRODS.             29   7%    241.247   8%    200.507   7%    140.100   8%          117.793  1Z 487            06    8%
FURNITURE & FItTURES           30   7%    200.748   7%        90,428   4%      65,495   4%       59.520      5.075         244   2%
PRINTINGOPUBUSHING             22   5%    132.27      4%      60.702   2%      44235   2%       390.11       4,423          l    &%
TIE)LESICORDAGIEITWINE         21   5%   1t91,333   6%    273.U8   10%    152.197   9%    132.925            13.2e9      1.,70  144
175  43%   1.216246   41%   1,096.241   41%    750,862  4%    63as.503        64,948       7.00   67%
Intumidits Goods Indusire
CHEM & CHISW PRODS.            54  13%    524.363  17%    497.188   18%    312.900  17%    230.360          27.840       1,611  14%
LEATHER & LEATHER PROD         13   3%       94.152   3%      53379   2%       35.6s,    2%      32.086      3.6           414   3%
NON-METALLIC MIN. PROD         19   5%      94,770   3%       U.048   3%    56325    3%         51.70        3.016         197   2%
PAPER & PAPER PRODS.           1S   4%    149.106   5%    153.907   6%    103.800   6% e          3.530      10.r0         20    2%
RUBBER & RUBBER PRODS.         11   3%       80.921    3%     68.757   3%      44.035   2%      40.U1        3,183         230   3%
WOOD & WOOD PRODS.              9   2%       74.044   2%    8et.048   3%       37,800   2%       34.320       3,480        202   2%
121  30%   1.017.355  33%    930.225  35%    53.510  33%    S22.945           51.84       3.093  21%
Miscallaneous lndustbi<
COTTAGE INOUSTRY                4    1%      2t224    1%      24.147    1%     19,148   1%       17,260       1,86          S7   0%
HANDICRAFTS                    11   3%       35,926   1%      10.t20   0%       7,t10   0%       7,026         7t4         123   1%
MISC. MANUFACTURERS            14   3%        0,619   3%     60.904   2%      43,665   2%      35275         4,290        178   1%
OTHER SERViCES                  4   1%       39,988    1%     14.193   1%       9,300   1%       t.700         6Mc          51   0%
TRANSJSTORAGE/COMM.             6   1C       36.041   3%      63.983    2%     42.9w    2%       3t.610       4290         249   2%
39  10O    281.702   9%    174.017   6%    122.720   7%    106.871           11.340       S6    1%
GRAND TOTAL       406 100%   3.091,382  100%   2.692.395  100%   1,808,350 100%   1.70,050      162,947      12.380 100%
AVERAGE                       7,614            8,832            4.464             3.880        401          30
*   _      *     _m       _n _    __                             m _    _ _ _ ._i_           _              _     _



33
Exhibit a
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
ORIGINATION OF LOAN 303-PHI
BY TYPE OF PFI
TOTAL    AVERAGE    ACTUAL    AVERAGE  PROJECTED   AVERAGE
PROJECT   COST PER      LOAN        LOAN      NUMBER   CAPITAL TO
COST     PROJECT   GRANTED   GRANTED    OF JOBS  LABOR RATIO
PPI TYPE            NUMBER    (P'000)       (P'000)    (P-000)     (P'000)   GENERATED   (P000)
COMMERCIAL BANKS                    205   1,194.131      7.77e   1.056.355      5.1S3       s.765         277
NON-SANK INTERMEDIARIES               2     49.000      24.600     24.000      12.000         164         299
DEVELOPMENT BANKS                   117    837.030       5.259    437,U0        3.742       5.342         117
SPECIAUZED GOVT BANKS                 7     60,433       1.131     33,200       4,743         100         804
SAVINGS ANO MORTGAGE BANK            so    385,209       6,020    251.750       4.267         "0          414
RURALSANKS                           16      6,517         412      5.215         326         129          51
TOTAL         406   2.692.390              1.086,350                  12.359
ORIGINATION  E9Y  PFIS
'BY AMOUNT'OF LOAN, OPANT0O
30m. . . (aw).
ORIGINATION EBY PFis
BY NUM48CM Or SU810RO.JECTS
Na.s (3.9m
;.   C'.-   (.73)          A-  7.S                       j.    .
KU. (50.33)
CDs (20.0PI (053
......~~~~~~~~~~14 pl                  ( ...   :-So-Cla) 



34
bhlibkl
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTE AND LOAN FUND
STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED
LOAN 3038-PHI
PRELOAN     TOTAL       TOTAL      TOTAL       TOTAL      TOTAL
ASSET     PROJECT      LOAN        ICLU        PCI      NUM5ER
SIZE      COST      GRANTED    SHARE         SHARE     OF JOCS
PRIOJECT STATUS  NUMBER    (P-000)       (PO000)    (P'O0O)     (P'00)     (P'000)   GENIRATED
ARREARS                 42     135,408     1W.308     129,840     111.50     11.710       1.77
CURRENT                323   2.513,*3    2.212,740    1,472,833    1.,334    lam           3.Ut
PAIDIPREPAID            41     332.041     281.347    20s.e77     1U.13       17.U41        "
TOTAL         406   3,091.342   2.882.3"    1,08.350   1.173.,00   153347      12.239
AVERIAGE                  7,614       6,62       4,.44       3,88        401          30
-STATUS OF. S.UBPRO4ECTS - LOAN 3:03a
.. .MOUNT OP' LOAN GRAMM
ARRtARS (7.2X)
C%JmftEN? (61.43m)
STATUS OF SUBPRO.JECTS - LOAN 3038
PA10/PRCPAo(10 .I 1  ')
CLJRKCNT (76.SX)



-_ F        SAUARANTEEANLONPUND
CHAPACIEUUSTlCS OF 8UWPRGJE    MNvCM Um LoAN 3=
(Amais h MeOn l_
-            E             P    *     OA-aW  tCOA    NM       P-AM GoUt                    L
OF   10N   AME         0HAi         i            -         _            -                  -         -                   o      1 11  11
SMST             FISIE         SiOI_W ELM           PROJ.            aIn      uSTI    VALE   CLAE M                PFA     TOr6        mc       FA      TOMA       uvI        rm       EMry
uP.M. mErE-s                    ISa I~ACatWUma            E   NMr           1.257     Ijes        75   3          an                Su         me                on         41         sm
$lr. E PTICRS ll. MM                  r                        NM    *        1         on        74U   a         463                46        so                            i          s        u
AET AUE WIOE FPTOW              APPAlLOO1mCAIT             E   NR           '.8,i      m.       lISt   a        2.44               2.44      %m                 a.8-       SAN    1     a       oa
ACCt4TATEUtl Q MOWORATED  PAPERoPWEAPPOO4.                 E   NCR          km        X2714     2.4    a        ita                2.160     ti.m               1.7.       t.iW                4a4
ACA IFOOU                       ArPARELMOO1WAR             E   IV            m          220      2344   C         2i                 2         14                 in        *4         17 4t
ADO FAACN PRODUC1TS M.           WEM & CHBI PRODS          E   IV          tI4       ta.4       77n6   N        3,137             3X137      ama                2.1.       isa        2M         i7
MAOA.JMICISO           0         ATICsWlS                  E   Iv            m         ma         2 1  c          al                256        144                44        147        17        as
AOL PLASU-RIT 5UUSTRY           OIM & CHEM PSODL           E   NCR          1010     7?4."      2W    U            03               1X6        a"4                SW        461        so         a
AOL PSASTIWEIDUSTRY             CEM & CEMIPRODS            E   NCR          7UI4      7.170      XG62   U                 1120.              3.104              $,0 t  00   *       7                     w
MERT COMUE11IALSI&ETOAULN AMSUR& teU77R               E7   NCF             2.01?     t.i7      2X12t   a       I.        1       , tm       1no               1.200     I'm    1_             311
MEXANOER'llEAR                  APPARELJOOITAR             E   NCR          4.113     362   2141%616   a        1t.44             16,644     12.ma             1ta.0      e4Ar      2,i16      2544
ALFA-IEaEL CHEMICAL A MPG. COW.   JSIER  NEEfRO.   C   Iv                  7,6       6073      12.6t2   M      3.636    34444     7,373     4.00               4.200     2641        440     23AS
ALFA-TEC  aCEMICAL & MPG. COW. Ft*U  & FRWME  FODS.   E   IV                3,463     a1        7.a   a         4,367              43*7      4.000              4,00t     X4co        400      3:7
ALPHA FEEDUMLL. M               MI. MANtACLWEImS           E   VS           2144      2.70     12.441   U       2.247     60t      .747      6.00               6,000     tow                  4.17
ALMIAUMtaCo& COajT mN SUP HOWMETALIJC UK roD.   E   N4                      3.04      a.ma      gIt1   a        1.tg     2.126         2,10  It."s    aa        am    t i0            m         ItO
APIEI NTER0WIA    L EWORTS NC APMFOO    WARONOOEAR         E   w            7,163     7.m       ga5   M         gistl              a,        c.0"               6000      4."0        6"0      tal
ALUcANTsrEiATIL MOL Mc.  METAL EuStRV                      N   MM           6,6to     se        14.0w   M      teas    2.04      12.367      6m      2.00     It.a       iu         I.O u7
AM  EFtUNIEWLANDO L ALUAM   OWO-METALIC UK FROS   E   NM                    2,724     1,746   t 24    S         1."4               1.0I4       760               76l   0 6             75       334
ASAIS   SDUSIIUAL               SEATIER & LEATHER P4f0D    E   NCR          1.662      Mtl 0    3               2.11M              a."    ama                    ol       ,.ma         a        sa
AMInOSTEELEfA    AOFPWCO        METAL  HUITYf              E   NCR         12.651     6624      0671   M        12.125            10.130     *m.                 6.1     7?266       am       atl
AWMTY   IJWACTURIM3             CHEM 0c0EM F"RO            E   MM          12.422     .342      4.63'  UM       4.01               4.226     2.660      X        .66      210         as        72
AEMA iTOrNTES                   MISC. MAWUFACTUEM          E   V            t.M       1.44      #.On    a       t.00s                        I'M                Lma       ta                     as
APCmiITMVAF0                      ATER& LEATHEAR 6D    E 0                  2203      2t46        723           1.1*"                          so     N     6 4  n6  t       11        N4       31
MAC      4,yANA                 HN fT.                     E   M             NS         I"        266o            ltll     71        176       I        AS        Io        136         s        26
MIlCOMk FEDEMO       FA         MIM MAIANPCTUEM            E   IV           4.172     isa       iou   a         2.0?               2.7"?     1."       7M t_ma            tSoA        am         "
AsAWEW fIO *EWY&GAIMtE  uS.  TE         0     _1EWCOFGE   E   NM            2423      1.212     4.424   a       t.ma               1. uo     %.56               tsma      1m. 4tO
IA   EI E,OIC                   O minimum. mc  OTHER MEoIs  E   NCR         4.,"      4,61N      372   R           n.X76           X.175     ima                ama       211                 1S.6
_NAN METALS                     SOCEALISTRSIRY            N   X             1.670  1    .   4 76        U         Bra *no          2479       075    *An        6.&"      1.S0        I"     . t.674
A       APDCTPAPR&PAP  FROStD                             E   NCR         t1.m       10.160    24.310   M      t4.2t7   24.016    26.16     14.00   ttl         6        26.ma      S6u      14t162
ATLA TACKS                      APPAMIE OOWARM            E   NCR          4.415     t2.40      4.436   S       2, t.30   34      3240      2t_10 iou                     3,mS
AUTOMATIC uACHNE lop            MAC EWAPANCES             U   vS      E     .1."      3.ma      2,33            2,1114             2.904  t .W                 aa         t.ma        as        *o4
AV TATUCO MAMUFACTU11 sIcN   CEM & CHEM R.                E   NCR          13.237    11,0    Xma   M           It                 ll,tm I.ma  kma              *.So       kmw        ma       ama
S  T  US OF COTIOCI             APPAMELOTWiAR             o   NCR   FI ls             2.276     ama   M         3.m     2a.7 . X_ma V       _00                3m.        270   _             as"
SASY _rs-GAFIEWSMFG.            APPAFOTWEAR               E   NCR           7.163     1140      4,638  U        4.602 X    34 82 .721       1.2a    3.m        koma       4.64        M       3
lWST MAGCTGSA    TS MWG         APREWOOTIMEAR             E   NCtR         16.46     16.176     7.m    M        7.20,              7i2M      ama               2.610      221       2ma       4.7U1
ALAMA  RACHIE M    & B       -      H                     F   a            2.O12      2.1St     17U   a          mo      ma        1,2as     sm        in     1i.s         ma        lm        25a
t FM_U NOMn PwuhnfHiG           FURSTUFRE6fX a   URES     F   0            6.0Z7      7.637     Vm t   L         .111 6Z67                   4en"              4.m       364_        41       atN17
BSAE CoWoSATION                   TAL inUETAIRY           E   NCR           sts@ X 4U2  V .4  M                 4.223   2.00,     4,3         ma  t.oa          .m       4.6t        mo        .223
sAvA.us NOmNeHf.D4EAL           COEM aa CHEM              E   NC           4.10      3.563      3.667 *         4.7               4.23i      2.m.              3.0.      ama                  1.237
EAUEX  HMRTS & PANTS MP. CO.  APA   JFOOVEAA              a   NCR          X.470      t.470     a,#"4   a       iou                X._       tm               tam         tam        2"       1.1"
BELT GAM AM PR .                CHEM & CHEM PRODI         C   WV      X     .663      ?A        4.212   M        ma                                               a H  s    7o 
OO  MOTOR ALESrCOW              TRMAT. & inASR            E   Wm           a."m      11.044    2n.2   M        21.234             2t.234    1l y7"                       14.0       1.70      5634
SENNY MAOPACTUSG COW.           COTTAGE 46W              UE   "t           16D07      2,2      12.14   MO      mO"e IS ms                   13.t_                        lI.10      1.30      3.58S



Pa  2,.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AMu I
INDUSTAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUN
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUOPROJECTS FINANCW UNDER LOAN 3036
(Amounts In Minion Pesos)
NATURE            PRELGAN   PRLOAN   COLA-    MD.                     PfIOECT COST                      LOAMN GPAT
OF   M0E06       ASSEt    OfsEI a       TERAL    SIZE                                                                         KILF        PFI     BOfa
WESTMENT ENTEMASE                   SOTRY CLASS            PRoJ.               SIZE      ECQITY      VALUE   CLASS    WC            FA       TOTAL        vt         FA       TOTAL      SIFE        SHARE       EQUITY
SENS      4USTPES. MSC.              DIEM8  CHEMPRODS.                 6CR           10.674     16.200      26,912   M        12,111                12t111      10.00                10.060      3*000       1,000       tit
SacOL BRANQ s OTE4ATIOAL. 64.   *IAOcRAFTS                         E    V              4,320       1.70       1,775    8          on                    "a         "o                   we          ?o          es          woo
SIA-MAGC, MN.                        APPAMlIFOOTEA 0,4E 1CER                          a.0          .000      12.720   U         3.436     6.030      Wi,4S                 soc         6,oee      7,zee         00e       3,46
tLAU-MAGIC. INC.                     APPAFLEUOOTVAR                E    NE1CR         16.352     12,606      12720   U          2,226     6,710       7,86                 6,woo       6o.0e      4,600         500       2,936
mFnaCoOUOnS                          TPRAIEIOPT. AtEPAIR           E    tv            4.110       2,707      t2ll    S          4.231                 4,2w       1,160                 1.160       1.035        11s       3,131
SATUS FOOD SYSTEM MIC                FOOO & FOOD PRODS.            E    Vlt            6.31       3,022      3J,32   U              0     1,236       1,236                  79o        760         7e0          so         458
CA SCUA  GAM6ENIS                    APPAFELNOOCT AR,              E    tNCR           1,439        I18       3,864   S           424     2,se2       3,40e                2,700       2.700      2.430         270         700
CASQUARE  ARMENTS                    APPAM6t&OOTVtWA               E    NcR           6,122       34.57       4,507   M         1,660                 1,8se      1,000                 1,000        Noe         100        aS
CASAtLL,ES.SANTIAG  S.              FPFNTIIN9IUSHI64Q              I    vI             1.367      1.200       1,610   6            80        o         70                   eGoo         oo         640          s0         10         O
CALEDOMaSTEAM LAUNDRY. INC.          OTHERSERVICES                 E    NCR             .6109     8.075       6.280   U         4.171                4,171       3.400                 3.400      3040          360         771
CAiHAANIM & SAUSASE MG.              FOODL  FOODPtOWS.             E    S             13.670      s.,64       7,317   U         3.226                3,226       3,000                 3,000      2,700         300        22e
CANUMAY METALCRAF'T                  METALINDUSTRY                 E    NCR            5.131      4,672       5,708   M         b,661                56.61       3.600                 3.500      3,160         350       t614
CAPIOxLESS PAPER, M0. t(CE)          PAPER &PAPER PFOODS           E    NCR           10,041      0.578       0.763   U         6,430                 6,430      7.000                 7.000      6,300         700       t430
CAFRLV1JGARuENTS                     APPAREUFOOTWAEAR              E    NCR            5,262      4,663       0,107   M         2,123     6.297       0,420                6,000       6.000      4,600         soo       3,420
cJARSWCOOENTERPISES                  WoOD vsoooPRODS.              E    NCR           4,100       1,305       t676   S          3,341                 3,341      1.800                 1,6c        1,620        100       1,641
CASENAS. JOSE S4A. CYFSIREINA MAFN FOOD  FOOD PFiOOS.             E    VW              a26         06        1.022   s           162      465         627         160       350        600         450          so         127
CATHEFAt SHOE SIWPICELSO LU          LEATHER  LEATiHER PFROD      M    NCR             356         773       4,900    C        2,U21                 2.621      2.000                 2.000       1.,00        200        621
CCC FOOD PRODUCTS                    FOD0FOOD MPODOS.              E    Xi              951         632         8s0    5          300                  300         260                  2s0         225          25         60
CEBU COTU4ENrTAL pFINTERS            PAINTNGIFPIUtI.SING           E    vt             7,300      7.207       6,760   U         2,90     1.6i4      3,693         500     1,600       2,000       1,600        200       1,603
CESU PROGRESS UMAAETTOG              FURNITURE & FIXTURES          E    ViI           3,4'8       3,026      6,872    S         1,263     4,134       5,397                4,000       4.000      3,6a         400        1,367
CEWJRArnTANSTEF4UDE DESIGNS    FL"NTUrIEWAFUxTUiEs                 E    VlI           3,370       1,26       4,518   a         1,968                 1,688      Iw,                   1,60o      1,440         160        2t8
CEBU SAFEWAY UAA(nETfNG              CtEU a CHEM PFSOCS.           E    vur           14.U91     12.0s2       0,03   M         10,142                10,142      4,100                46000       4,320        460        6,342
CEFErIINO ET FIGLUJOSE V. ENRIOUEZ  APPAREIFOOTmWAR                E    NCR           3,684       2.659       2,636    s          410     1,650      2,260       1.500                 1,600      1,s00                    760
CELESESAICtJLTURAL CORP.             FOODAFOODPRODS.               E    VW            7,635       4,608       2,660   U         6,191                6,101       2,850                 2.560     2te5          285        2.341
CELSSHIRTANDODRESSES                 APPAREMLFOOrTVAfA             E    tt           7i,          6.000       4,6s5   U         6.207               65207        4,000                4,000       3,600        400        1.207
CEIITURY WOtAADE EXPORT              FUFiTUFIEA FIXTUFE6           E    V1W           4.773       3,846      6,658   0              0     4.176      4,176                 3,600      3.600       3,000         soo        W7S
CEFRL FoOD CoFtOtRAToN              FOO & FOOD PAO36D.            E    tt            12,684      3,000      18.747   U        12,600                12,000      0,000                9,000       0,100        900        3,000
CIHAAMSFASHIONLINE                   APPrAELFOOTwEAR               E    tV            4,5Z3       4,079       3,100    6        1,371     3,200      4,671                2zBoo       t900        2,619        20o        1,671
CIANA CESINTERIATKNATHLSALES         MISC. MNUFACTUIEMS            E    V               749         476      t2666              1,460                1,469       1,116                 1,116      1,000         116        354
CHEMOIL LIUHTERAGE COW.              TRANS.ISTORAGECOUM.           E    14CR          19w6       10,17576    33,300   M         6s,s      0.076      13,714      3,006     6,000      11.000      *,900       1100       2,714
CHFISTSE 6LSiGEES MFG                APPARELFOOTVWEAR             IE   VI             16.67,      8.067      12,927   U         2,000    11.600      wa,at       1,000   1i1w0       12,000       *,600                  4,600
CITIZEN RADIO A5SEUSLY               MACHUIEAYAPPLIA4CES           E    NACR          3.771       3.076       3,637   S         I,03                  1,830        600                  600         46U         60        1,430
CAavPGARMENTSCOUPANY                 APPAREUFOOTWEAR               E    N4CR          6,414       4,606       3,602   M         2WO       1,50       3,0a        1,257      943       2,200       1w,o         220        1,300
CLAMSOIIENTERFTSEB. 5.               FUNTUTRE AFIXTUNIES           E    vr            16,111      4,016       4,00   U          2,560                t2650       2,000                t0o         1wo0         200         sso
CLEVELAID TEXTSLE MLLS               TEXTILEWCODAGEtT9rINE         N    NCR               a      16,400     n2.   M0            1,200    16,300     19,600                wo.ooo     w,ooo       10,000                 stso0
CNT HANDICRAFT                       NI4CSATS                      E    14CR          6,257       6,976       1,760   M         1,644                1,644       1.300               1300        1,170        130         344
COLUMaUS FOOD PRODUCTS               Foa aD FOOsD PFODs.           E    NCR           *0916       6,454      6,266   U          2,777                3,177       3,400                3,400       3,060        340         377
CoutgoRtNDusTRS                      LEATHERALEATHlERPROD          E    NCR           2,973       1,040       5,446 5           2,9n       n0o        29On       1,400      to        2.30        2.070 c3o                67J
COITONR ECOVEAiEI SYSTEM, M.C  TEX TLEIC0ADLAE _TWNE               E    NCR          17,539      12,021     431I      U         8,6o0   20,000      20,580       6,00e    16,wo      20,000      woos e      to0        a6.90
COVER aPAGcESCOW.                    PftnTIeFISHINa               E    NICR          4767        t345       3,278   8             a      1t,10      1,100                  me         600         450          60         6ON
CASE L ENEIT6    EiC6mTE             HAtTCRAFlS                    S    vti           1.6t6        du         LIN    6           3.3 J33                          336                   336        3f0          36          48
CRWotXCAet4stUN                      APPAtEL .FoqW R              E    NCR           6,"a6       4,439      2,U46   U          4,700                4,7e6       2,6u60               to2  eo                  n0o       2,70i
CAWI 36 N1I'AC0RORATION              FAMi4ER 6 & OER  1P00.    E    Vt                *430        2,73J       5,426   U         33,081               30t1       3t oo                 2 P00       1,6 oo200              I 964



INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCE UNDER LOAN 3U
(Amounls In MNon Pesos)
MATURE           ffELOAN    IfElOAN    COLLA-                     I P.EbCT CO6                      LOAN GANTED
oF   flEt5lOe    ASSET    O     FS     TE_AL   SUE        --                                                                F        PfI      0RFoRPW
WANsmasn u,IvmE t64nIj63MY  MC S                         rFsj.              MZE      ECISTY      VALUE   CAM         N         FA      TOTAL                   FA      TOTAL      SHAIE    SHAE          ECAXTY
CIWZANT EN   EESMN METAL WIDUSII                                E    IV            2.361      2.1t2       1.6,    a          an       SON       1.2W         4S0      410        300         &U6          0        350
CTUANSEACTIAU                      CHEM  U,CHEMPAI              E    MACR          *.122       5.60       7.1S3   U         $.28                3,416      2.006                2,606      1,600        200       s.52z
*AMCOMO^AA"12                       METTAL.USTRY                N    NCR             ?66        2W0       1,54    a         1254                I.m        1.66                 1,60        1on         lol        204
DAILY FASHON MFG. COFIP.           A OPNEIgOOTVJEI              E    NCM           3,4000      1.4       1t.435   a        11.73               11.670     11,000               11.00,       32W         400       7,676
DAPABANOUSE OF FPO NAINCRWFrS COTTAGE IOUSTtY                   E    V             1.20         723       2.636   5        2.200                220        1,46                 I,4        I'6          INS        265
DAVAO UMTED ENMEEEM6 A EOPT. MIETAL S18SRY                     E    Xi           7?.?7   X .300          5.161   U        3.                   aim        3cm                  3600       2,700        300        7W0
O0EM MACHIE        we              METAL IDUSTRY                E    xl            7.67       6,266       5,66  1           1,2U2               i.292        NM                  an          720         so        452
DEED CENTE  INC.                    METAL U4D TIY               E    NR            45047       3.025      .302    S            a    5,U42       5,542                1.400      1.400      1,260        140       4,142
DELTRACERMACOSEOATION               TPANSJSTORAAGECOMU.         E    8             10.403     13.611     46.671   U     e           22.00      n.600                l6.6       16,60      16.200      1,800i      4,000
tCC IDUSTRIAL COWE                   TLESOCWAEINTVIE    E    NCR                   12.270      6.042     26.,47   M        4.,10    5.60        6.600      4.000    4.000       6.000      2.000                  7.00
DOOCkASTERENTEIFSES                 ArFAIELFOOlWEAR             E    NCR           3,671          0       3.468   0        3S64                 3540 3JU                        3,600      3.1X Ii 3W0
Dar"_  PL ENTEf80Es. INC.           TEXT&TE0DO .AQErIWE         E    NCR            1.604      1.163      S.11   S             6    2.50        2.600              2t00         2,Wc0      1.c0         200        U0
OPAGO01U4  &I11F> SUSt8AL P8L'.   TEaT6EODCXOIAEIUWM            E    NCR          16,363      12487      10,062    M       14,4U1              14.4U6      6.000                5.600      7,200        000       6.454
OKL NOIMTEMI&NOS. LACAO            FUO1TuFE aFIXTUIEO           E    IV            6,4f6      6.430       3.6     U        2t13                 2t13       1U00                 1,600      1,350        ISO        o3
DUSAGO  T. PETERPSESS               P4Tff$MNNILMH              E    VI            1,305       I.3        I.465   a          2W0      250        600         10       250        400        360          40        100
0. MENDOZA  3OOOfCSaSASHFA  VO0iVOOD0 PRODS.                    E    NCR           3.011      2.41       1,60   0        1.62                 1,20       I,oo                 1,000        goo        goo        626
E A N 0UEMRRE   RATTANCRWFT 4    FUMTURE I FIXTURES             E    NCR           3.,W       3.262        676  a0          L56                  Li          aso                 mo          us          56   166
EASTUM lgWUSTYlAL oUPPLY, NC.   UACHUERY WAPPLWIOES             N    NCR           14.112       200      16.,f7   M        10.701    6,700     17.,71      3,000    6.000       .000       7,200        2        0671
ES MONTE TWARECAPP0                 FUWBM&NE RDROSS.    N    VS                       0         20        164   C             0       75          n5                  so   60         o4                 a         is
ECU MERCN5WRXMROO LAW   METAL  TMITRY                           E    NCR           6.40641    3.71         462   U         3006                 3.000      2,60                2.600      2.250        250        546
ECC 412 PRINTS 4 GRAPHICS            ~Df3NTELMJfia              E    NCR           3.431      2445        4,0S3   a          0looo    2W20      3,210        600    2,000       2600       Z260         260        750
EDNE ACOIEDOMALEENTEIWFUSE  uOON#-ETALUC UK  tDS    E    VI                        2.430      Z43         1.175   a          If       G0         776         106      306        500        480          s0        275
EJGOMEZ CONETEFRODUCTS              NON-MIETMIC UK PRODS    E    01                1.,16       1.716      2,402   *         1.001               1.31       1.w                  1,500      1,3f0        150        4n
ELDON  UTRIA. COw.                 METAL IWUTRY                 N    NCR           4.230      4.00       16.736   a        4.,U0     1.406     13.2w       1.000    0.000      10.000       ,600      1,t00      3,36
ELECTA KT. ABNEGATE RESOURCES MOM S ojAinii                     N    IV            3.65        1.260     25,53   a         4.00    14641       2.000       4,000    0.IO000                1,6,00  .   .000     10.00
EPA ROIK     UE gAC   S4O          MACSUERlYAPFW 4CEB           E    NCR           4.26U      3.872      2tU7   8             76    4.56        4.16               2tw 1o                  2.1 z250    21        2.00
ELYSSE MOTOR                       METTAL ISRUTY                E    I             0"  6.64    .          2564 t   U 1     1,UI7 1,U7                      1,600                1,60       1.350        IWo        37
EWa  T EXPORTS                     HANSXCAFTS                   E    V             1U6          631        34    a           280                 nm         200                  200        too         20          s0
EtUTON FOOD        UCTS            FOO    FOO  PRODS.           E    NCR          11.575      0.376      10,012   U       22.636   t7.0,    25.225        20.000              216060      l.606       2.060      *.225
EQUENT  ESEARJt A0EV COWF.  METAL SIITRY                        E    NCR           7.,01      6065         746   U         3611                3.2w       146m                1,600       1.60                 1..m
EIC3 HOM FU8F8 H6                   FURNITURE A Fl)TURES        E    NCR           2.11         1 1.6     I.&"    a         ,.                 1,ff4       160.                1,560      t.6W                    454
ESP PFVElRI NM                     PAPIER&SPAPEPROOL.           E    NCR           4.55        .21       4.,   U. 11,0W    t56                 5,66         700    1.0         2.500      2            250        565
EUBENO.  E *nUVE$A 5 PFELHW   NON4-ETAUC Mtd PFOS    E    NCR                     1.07      v,575      8.375   8         2t414    211U       4,U64       1.,3    1,47        a3-00      2,700        3         I,f44
EURASA METAL PARTS COR.            MACHERWAPPUANCES             E    NCR          12.05      10.504   4 .56    U           S2w                 6.00       aso         4,u4                42.fi0       a5         360
EURl COd CRAFTTOoUsS               TRANIJSTORAGEA)IS,           E    NCR           64712       .524      &605   U          *4                  556,4 *0                        oe          ,No         4W0       154
EVER AMPLE TEXTILE UFL COW.        TEXTs.Em62amEnwsdE           E    NCR           6.*02      5.60 0       476   U         3.11                2,6        3.t06 Xw                        km6          30         966
EXCELLENCE PttAI2SI3 COW.          CHEM a CHEU PI005.           E    NCR           0.751      4.,41       .6    U             6    4.60        4,06                   M        43X0   Xooo             306       t
EXELCRAFT, 11C.                   FUUSTURE A FXTURES           P    IV            1.247        ml           *   a S                   S          7S         7J        a         70          7  
FAIR LAD MAUFACTIG                 APPADlOOTREA                 E    VI              13l        ISO      1.223   G            a     1."7       1.017                 an         60         s7
FELTON COMI . A I. CO.ORP .                                     E    NMC lR,        .2       23.2?      31.17   U         0 51                261,4      2.2                  MA"        1, 3.2                    1
FEOWAM MMcIn.o  ATpRO  APPAFELoTAR                              E    VS            246        2.4W       1.436 V             11U      w        1,"         7no       t           6          76                    as 2
F&PRODIDE ME#IUM     WEM .          CH EM      PCHM  5.         a N CR 1N.M                    ,2w           6   U                  5.4       17.163       .         .m       ".So          060       1._1       7,33
, ..              ~                 g, ,,_     -e., .n-rTq1     to   I"           is-         37?        7276    U         p2e                 ?46          s6"0               1111       I ef 10 01     n        h."



Ax~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
UNDUSTRAL GUAPANTEE AND LOAN FlND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FftACM UNDE LOAN 303
(Amounls In AMio  Poo)
NATURE           PPELOAN   PLOAN    COLLA-   Ka                   PIECT COOT                     LOAN FRANTED
OF   FEON   ASSET        OERWJ        TEFRA1   SIZE      _.        _,p _ _              _         _         _     
WNSuEu        nESWmE             inDusTRYCLA           PinFE.            SIZE      EQUTY      VALUE   CLAS       WC        FA      TOTAL        WC        FA      TOTAL        ARE      SHAIRE    EQUITY
FLCOA P. GATISUA                   APPAHELJPOOWEAR             E    NCR           1,440       53         all   a   * U 1           153       10m         200                 200        200
FLOPAsTEGAENTS                     APARELIFOOINIE              E    NCR         13.476     Is6QS       4.378   U            0 -8260          6.256               3.00       3000       2.700       30        2250
FoPEVS. JE IMS                     METAL SiSTR                 E    IV             I"        I           2e   C          10                 170         I"                  I50       136         IS         20
FMC UA6FACTUK30 CO                APFAIfSOOTVEM                E    NCR          3.375      3.040       7.625   a       12)22               12,22      1..000 5ae                      9.01161e   1.000     U2ZI2
fORT14E ENT. CO PIK.8 W.           TRPISJEPT. I FPA3R          E 1               Gm          .5         t73    W         0,35                6.s3       6.0     s      e      e        4,6ee       6o        136m
FOA7fi tASTETICE0IS_ SCIE MIC. MANUWACTUIUF                    E    NCR          12,36       I.504     0*.27 V           1,e0                 soe.      It                  I0           0          110        aso
FTA OA30SUFTO MM. COWF.            AWPAREJOOT1AR               P    NCR          4.20       2.t1u       4,110   0        3.20                aueG       32110                    3.200 x2ee0                    0
FIA GAMIA3ITOU. COFW.              MPPAFE0OO1tAR               P    NCR           1.361     I,e        4,36   6          230                 3.20       3200                3,20 3*20e               a e
F ULPA AIDU01RCOI.                 METAL OEDUOTR               E    NCR          I1.8ll       .367    l3,5     u        11,427              11.427     l,000               30,000      90.00      1.000      1,427              W
    MILFITWU                      PAPERS & PAPUPO             U    x4i5                     .103       1.794 *           10       an        904                  30          No        540         so        384
. ai.NmU6 Ebs                      METAL   UlOTY              E    NCR           4.134      k101       4,2U1 s           70e                 7s0        50                  soc         4S0        so        2b0
GASI5L, JO -UFU .A                 APPARfL*O  VVMEAR           E    TV           4.e20      3,003      4.3               I.0"                I.I"       1.600 e.00                     1.300        3"        300
OALA3 VA6PCWJCTS                   LEATIER&AEATIIR PRO         E    NCR          13.70       0.83       *,.    U         4.412               4,.62      2.6                 2.ia       22f         250       2. 82
QALLIM WGNATS,l MT S HAi4ro                                    E    NCR           0.211      2.467     3xm e       u,m                       3.310       Isom                51e 7es                es        300
GAPA  ABEaE . SWIC.                mamma a QUIA U              N    U             5.00e      6,rn      14.1    6         2.0131o  10,200    12.20               0,000     la0.0 o6.0 e,ee                   Z2,0
0ENE_S MAFSETUIS        E          *3MaRAFT.                   E    W             1.,8       3.90       3.440    S       3.20                3.265     13045                i.s48      tile         395      1Z3S3
aLAFOoowMANUwACTUN1                FOOODOFOMPRODS.             U    NCR           s.73       3637       6.76   U          .6 34    I.ee      6,034      5.034     210       53250      4.7ft                 1.334
OLA AFoPo  MAWIINACTURNIG          Fool)OeFOODPVsC.            E    NCR          36.364     6,146       1e,1   U Mm.15            3.000      0,10       .om                 *.000      6.400       6a0       3.110
CLORV METPAL  AlUCTS MFG.          METAL 1N3UITRY              E    NCR          4.186       2,s7s     e.2e      2*021    6.0                0.021               e,eee      6,ee       5,40        600 e     2.021
GO6D0 PAOCAO6 & MFI. COME.         PAPER  PAPER  PRODS.        E    NCR         Ie,n9       10.062     Ix701   U        20.00e              20,000     15,e00              16.000     14.400      1.600      4.000
r0      a PACAO IL F MPFG. CORP.   PAPER & PA ER PRDS.         P    NCR          e.646      *.2s      10.701   U       14.0"               34.00      14,0e 14.000                    WON           a          0
aOLDEN P5AF COlwan IT              NNO3I-UET:ALI.   t UK P3F1  E    NCR          4.723      4.211       3,070   6        7.66                7.,6       4,01e               4.e0       3.60e       400       3.163
OMEfWENFP   no. cORP               M3C. MUFACTUE               N    NCR          6.30       6.*0       14.66,  U        14,.f3              14.502        e      10.000    10.0         .000      1.000      4.532
GOl.EIU0TEUOAPMINS                 CHM 50C0 Pt0L0  .           a    IV             463        452      3.12    C          ON       660       I,'         Ie       700       1200       I.          120        SW
GRAM PROGRE IE OM.0E. COW.    OM  A CEM PuARMS                 E    IV           12.620     1.747      6.3,   U          .2316              1.216      2.30                 2.000      .1,e       200       3.216
GO   mOOPUF TU3    a eoOV1        P FUTURE^TtE   TUE6         E    IV           14,4 4.1    674      13.6     u        0.407               0.47       7.ae                7,e0       g.766        710       P."7
GREENsTDAPRWlITI1PESS              PRIUTHWI ISLSlo            E    NCR            412        310       .4u    C   J               a3         320                 2D         200        30          20        tio
08 84OPPESIEIJA oIEID              APPAFAEIPOOT3AR             E    NCR              9   U .257         L47  A            700                 i0         an                  sw         400         10        20
eW     OM PI    PU. WC.            APrARELFONOA                E    NCR         17.33      11.1        6,706   U        2.6104    240       6.046      2.w3      2.00      4.00       3.30         400       1.046
HNA4OO0 00T330                    P3F"J tIE & PIXTUIES        uE    CR          13.8.      13.80       13,214 IU        5.3 1"    .3   e    3.8                 6,oe         000      &4"          MO        7,959
HA303OU TRSI L LP.                 CEM  CHEUMPFRODS.           E    NCR         16.724     11.313      0.2s2   U        4.1e3               4.13       3.000               3.00       2.700        300       1 130
HEUOs UANEACTUM    CORP.           CIIEM S COEM rP10.          E    NCR          6.349      5.25       2,043   M        1,400               1.400      30                  3.30         000e       too        40S
HLIO* sAaUFACIUFMw   CORfP           em & CEM 1PROD.           E    NCR          3.70       3.0        2.043 S          2.54                2.9        2.30                2.3        3.30         2*         840
IE,MIsY JtF     FOODC0Of.          FOOOD FOOOPRODS.            E    NCR          32.20    111,f4      233.23    U       16.640             16.646     12.000               I2.3       5.400        6e       0.48
HIZON Ls.AOR1AOUEO                CEM &06HE0 PRODS6.           E    NCR         16.049     I2j70    3X.2e2   U          5.,64   21.84      27.568              123.30     12.W0       7.000                2.6su
IICLY STEEL M~EACTUR               METAL 30STRY                E usNCR    *      0,45       0.720   e ,112   U          4,430      060      6,203      4300                4,000      2,80         400      3.293
303EENIEWFOES                      FUISTUREM SFIXTURES  E           TV           1,340      1.63   R        ,a            30                 663         we                   0o        400        10   I      36
IEAL PMTNIEURCO                    PAPER& PAPERPROOS.          E    NCR          9.610      7.700        n2   U            0    2.t00       21e                              s o        7ue         so e     .300
51003a0  ACASAET TRADU  COrW   NOl- ETALLIC AM PRfOS    E    IV                  I'me       3.10       3,3    a           77     2.251      3.044       30        30       12.30       .0          123      1.4
SICMETNAL onow fem. Il.t           aEM Sa em PRODS.            E    U           30.111      6l.s3     25,673   U       2U00                23.30      20.30               20.000     MAN         2.0110     3.00
s66D4ROCOVOMTED   QI EM ILCHEM PRODS                           I    NCR          6.107      7.541      C6.7   U          .70                376        2.30                Z.3        2.2        2no        1.261
TUERO CRAFTS&OF THELARs           fU"TWuE alFES                a    vS           s.ow       7.414      4.20   N4        6.4u                41,46U     *e0                 3.eu       2.t7e       30        3,4U2
T"MSA1V*141 F3    F PAnP AUTO PAT  CIEM LOEMPRO0.             'N    NCR             6   * .806  * 0.36    U             C.30    24.400     30.0*   o,                       30       3 .1%6 "61111



Pag S.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ac"coI
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTEIISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In MINon Pesos)
NATURE            PrLOA    rPELo         cOuL--   D                  PROJECT COST                     LOAN Cnwr ED
OF   REGIO.  ASSET   O(NaElN9    TERAt    WE                       -lF-                                                    m           ni    noE         R
VEIIMtEN  ENTERISE                 DwUSmv CLASS           PFIJ.              S1E       EQAUY       VALlE   CLAS        VW        FA       lOTAL        VAc        FA      TOTAL       SliME      51W        EOIAry
.                                                                                                                 _  __  _   _ __    __    _  _    -   -  -   -  - -- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ ___ -_ _ _ _ _ _____ _ __ _ _ __ _ ___ _ __ _ -   _ _ - ----   _ -   _ - - -----   --    - --- - 
NwMOTORS                            TAANJEa.  FE IR              E    IV            I.097        68         627   S           a6         s0        765         No                   goo        460           e        26
ISAROGPVEETSUNC.                    PArER&aPERPFJrCS.             E    NCM           1.34        1.646      4,766   a         2,0l6                2,06       q.a                  9,000        soe         loe       1.018
JA GALfTA ENTEFWUSES                FLWOTUFE  FIXFUIIS   E            NM            8,94 60      .         2,160 - N         1629                 1o629    950                                 ass 655      a5         67
JAGAUTAENEFW6ES                     FPU    UTURE A FXTtURES       E    NCR          9667        A,7?       I9,66    U            0    2,272        2.272                IMo        l,.oo         Mo         lee       1.272
JATO COFrATION                      ISACHINERWArrIJANCES          E    NCR           4649       3,6a63      0.06   a          5,767                 ,97       4,000                4,e         2,5040       400       1.797
JAINESMFG & ENG        tEM             USI E IERaE RPRODS         E    VI              60         721         o2   a           462       16e        612         200       I50        360        ai6          36         262
JAIMEMAPAAREEL5IMLC4OPA SAPrEUFOOTIEAR                            E    NCR           9163       466        13,12 N2           6,97676              a.ue a.0                        a,ae        aw 4o                  2a67*
a CESEaS SC                         OEM & OEM PRODt               E    NCR           9.06       4.760       5,607   U         4.000                4,0Wo      2.600                2,S0        2,260        260       1.00
J  PSURFTUuE MANUFACTUWUN           FUWTUrJRE & FIXTURES          E    NcR         1i,000       11,0 1O,tan   1               6,164                6,164      65000                S.ao        4.,a         aoo       4,164
JC LEEDS MAWA  ACTUWU4              ArPARELFOOToMR                E    NCR           6.6sa      7,49a       S,9   H            am      2,oo        320,266              3eoo       3.0         2.700        300        255
JOHITERIRNCEM UFACTUFNG             LEATHERSLEATHERPROD           E    NCR          11.417       ,6"4       9.402   M         72379                7,37       6.*so                9,600       as,s         -          6790
OHN   RRENCE F MA sWACTuFWaO    LEATHER A LEATHER ROD             E    NCR           6,66       6S,62       5.276   M         9,406                6.406     6s,o0                 6,000       4,00         600       5.405
JON  R    woNEY GAUJENTS            APPArEuFOOrAVAR               E    NCR          1263t     13,462      11,323   1        12.201      6so      13,111      WO,OD               o0.0        9.so       l.wo        2.511
JONASITNEFWTIONMLPHIL               FOODC&FOODCrROD               E    NCR          19.333       4,621      2,19S6   N         900       Soo       1,480         oo      W00       l,o          900         100        400
JOEWSRTVWEWACO SY                   ArfAfUIFoTWEAR                E    U             3.611      2.7N        0,022 S           2472                 2,472      2,wo                 2,wo        5,o00        200        472
JOHfM      NATNE CRAFT rHISFNES FURNITURE & FIXTURES              E    Va           10.678      8,221       7.206   U         4,423                4.423      3,6o0                3.a,0       3,600        390        633
JPSOARMENTS                         APPAMIJFOOTEAR                E    IV            1.167       161S7      19.77   a         1.101      6o        2.061      1,000                l,eoo         Do         too       1,051
JRDAUIENTS                          APPARLNFOOWEAR               E    IV             4,N76      4,636       1,676   S          300    2,600        3,900        2s       si        1.100        090         110      2,000
JSE COMMERCAL                       NON-METALLC MS. PRODS    E    NCR                6,120      2,120      10,444   M         4.120                4,126      4,000                4,W0        3ao, ao0                126
.55 MOTORS COIVORATION              TRMJECIPT. A ffEPAIR          E    X             8340       6S,011      6,463   M         48266                6,28       6,o000               6,0o0       4,600        so0       1,2u
Jl OL UAftKETiO CORP. OF THE PIt METAL S0IUSTRY                   E    NCR           7,714      6,364       0,737   M         1,300    1,417      10,717      3,500     36o        7.200      6,460         720      3.S17
JUN HAL6IFASIONMOUSE                APPAELIFOOTWEAR               E    NcR          1.293      14,060       2,31   M         2,410                2.410      1.020                1.020       1,726        192        460
JN-FOCOpFRoDUCTS                    FOODA&FOODPOOWD.             E    NCR             ,N74      3.324      513,24   a         6,262               *,262       *,ooo                6,oo       ,asc         9a          262
KIRARADONTIAIS                      APPARFELFOOTIAR               E    NcR           2,410      2,941      13,620   a        1,606                13,m00     11,000               11,000       6,900      1.l00      2,500
KEESATOY YSIIJTRES                  MSC. MANACTURWRS             E    NCR            4,330      3,427       1,197             2,600               2,600       1,450                1,460     19306          14       1,110
VAma HANDICRAT MPG_                 LEATHER 6 LEATER PtOD        E    NCR            8,334      5,00?      X,346   N         2,664    2,126       4s692        400       450       6*0          781         85       3,642
IIUIMASTERU RIES                   COEHaEM PoEuO                 E    NCR            6,613      4,106       4,670            4.5106               4,1 6       3,000                3.000      2.700        30        1,1 6
KtEN PrTERs                               W         7FT SLmffiO  E    Xi             1,706      5,63         667   a           324      236         66          I6s      23s        400         360         40         IS$
M aONz MFo coFr                     APPAiEUFOOTVAR               E    NCR           15,010      0.671      8,671 N           2U621                2,521       2,306                2,300      2,076        230         S21
1MOICIN SNDUSTRIALCOOP.             METAL IINOSTRY               E    NcR            3,427      0.330      206206  M1        1316                 13,116     12.000               12,060     9 o0.06     2t000       1,9 6
LADY  a0EN( ER8WF8S                 APPAMIAOOTmAR                E    3              2,u06      S,200      6,461   a          g.m      4.83       6.993                4000        4.000        600        400       1.093
LANTEX  IUMINEs                     AP'PAREuFOOTVAR              E    NCR            7.032      7,200     27.415    M       20,673               26.672      20,60n               20,000     16,000       2.016        173
LAVKNA. JA   TONEONTD               ION-MUETALIC M  PRODS    E    X                  4,604      2,606      2,061   S           6A      2,o00o     2,62         600       600 9).60            193.0        243       2,22
LEJALLASORATO6UE8,NW.               CMuacHsPnoue.                E    3             12,606      6,122      6,116   U          ,127               8,27        2,400                2,400       3,060        340       2.721
L1RANK 0IERTO                       IIdSCRF1T                    E    H               210         219        164   C           100       26         126         7s       25          oo         6o          10         25
fUIA.CLNIRef               FOOD6FOOCPROS.               E    NS              596        996        I5     a                                s o         70                   70         o3          7          20
* IS1N)1CRAFT,S1C.                  FU IIURE A FOTIUSE           E    NCR           15,166      *,0        5,214   N         4.176                4,176      4.001                4.10,       3,600        4"0        176
ILHFOODPRODUCTS                     FOOOAFOODPRODS.              E    NICR           *.610      t.m         ,672   S         1296   5.,0         7,216                4,666      4,00         ,0          400       3,216
tOMDOboPAo  1SVplb 6NW., SIC.    MTAL 4OUTRY                     N    Wm            1W,O        8,444      426    M         IX IS                13,500     i6,o6                 10*06       9.600      s.0         3150
LOUEM ,AA a61REESI. W.              FOODAFOODPROOt               E    NCR            2,60       1,424      2,172   6         1.1l,                1I1U6    t l                       -         89          6s0        2aS
LOTUS EMMOSERW                      APPAE.UFOOTmA                 E    WA            6,60       1,014      6,62   a            17m X2U            2372                 1,00  *                 124         we         672
L. ^IMwLATNERCFIT                   LEAITERALEATIEROD            S    I              2,06       6,4        2*1   4             6n      E5794      2,76        4        9)         2,_    1     .,          2W         764
ssEsAIsu      su1 IC              w    a vo OOca             N    IV            1,319       1.26       127t33 61         23 2,60              6.33        2,26    19,206      1400        2.406                  I9n



'in0* 6.                                                                                                                                                                                                              Annex I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Pesos)
PFELOAN
NATURE           PFILOAN   PRELOAN   COLLA-    ND.                   PROJECT COST                     LOAN GRANTED
OF    ElEGON    ASSET    OWNERS    TER'          SIZE   --         -------  ---                                               'F       PFI    BOFR m OWER
VESTUENT ENTEfPSE                  INUSTRY CLASS          PROm.              SIZE      EQalTY      VALUE   CtASs.  Wc            FA       TOTAL        WC         FA      TOTAL       SHARE      SHAME       EQUITY
MAUPATAO3SOFROWO                    FtUITUTJEAPFIXTU8ES           E    N               IU         ISO         362   C                     110                    De                   9o         sI           9         20
MANC     MANu ACTUCUIN COWR.    FUFTUIE&FIXTURES                  E    VN            7,2S?      4.645       1,732   M         tS21                 2,t21      1.2w0                1.200       I.200                  1.823
MANTAsCO uFuOCOQP.                  APPAFEUFOOTWEAR               E    NCR           48904      2,84        6.326   S         8.328                6.326      3.500                3.2500      3,500                  12
UARi-Ao TUIE CENTER                 MET^AL VIDSTAY                N    1             6S600      5,500      28.679   M         4,383    16,144     t8,507        858    15,144     16,000      14.400      3,800       3,507
UASULASl   USTFAL CO     .          tIlES A CHEM PRODS.           E    NCR          18,752       8,382     20,22n   M        10,482     o000      13.462      7,000    3.000       0,000       scow, 1o000            3.482
MASS DYNAMC EIT. CORP.              CHE8 a CHES PRODS            N    NCR            3,300      3,000       4,0s0   5            0    3,038        3.038                2,800      2,800       2,800                   23s
MASTERf lON WOMSB  CONSTOJCTIO METAL ShtTRY                       E    NCR          30.856      8,870      18,768   M        30,000               :0,0        S,om                 8,000       7,200        aW        Xo00
MAVAL CHEMICAL COW.                 CHEo    & CHES PRODS.         E    NCR           6,63       3,64        2,680             I,soe 8              300e       l,wo                 l,oo         gos         Soo        9
SAXEF SHOES MANMFACTUWI             AFPPAFEiLFOOTWAMR             E    NCR           3.8*9      2,342       2,48   5         2,u9                 2,629      3,8o0                l,so        1.350        ISO       1,029
MoENlUE GANIENT SF0 INTL            APPAREUFOOTWESAR              E    NCR          31.002      8,328       5,60   M          8.738                8.7        4.000                4.000       3,600        a         2.739
MDIJAANENTERPRSE                    TRADISJEOPT. AEPAIR           E    NCR           8.741      4.238       6,827   M         6,200 6U200                     5,w00                3,600      3,240         3eo       1,ao
MEDICAL ENERIc LABORATORY           CHE3  As CHES PRODS,          E    NCR           3,741      3,u6        8.J44    a           0    1,600        6,600               4,100       4,500      4,010         460       3o000
MEQAPAOCCONTAMNERCOr.               PAPERAPAPERPRODS.             N    NCR           4,000      4,000       8,817   S        11,790    8.000      20.700      8,200                6,200       6,660        820      14,500
MEPSAID MUItT-RODUCT                UBC. MANUFACTURERS            E    IV           12.507      98,7        7,092   M         6s,20                8,620      8,00o                Saco        7,200        800        S20
METRO MULTIPRODUCTSINC              TFXTLESICCRDAOE1TVIIE         E    NCR         1876        8,445       4,26   M             0    32,300      12,100                7,000      7,005       8,300        700      5,00
ULLIANS H8E. IC.                    LEATHER A LEATHER PROD        E    N4CR         13X333      8,872       ,6s    M          6,384                6,354      3.000                X,000       2,700        o0        2,354
MULLAS 4SHOE, IC.                   LEATHER & LEATHER PROC        E    NCR          30.68?      3o,8      133,22X    M        8,344                638        3,000               3s000        2,700        300       2,320
WiL-OWO MANUFJACTuWO                APPARELFOOTWEOAR              E    NCR          10,620      4,873      12.538   M         4,9                  4.00      4,a                  4000       3,600        400           o
UmAOCOCODEVELOPUET COP CHEMS ACHEM PRDS.                          E    Xi           1S.342     33,066      24,60             I8.,703              16,703     13,000               13,000      I,700       1,300       6.703
MIENDAAO ESI NTOAL A PRINTEIG       P HIRITI4GPUiLISVISG          E    x             8.262      4,100       4,8u6   U         I,200                1200        ss                    8s5        700          8         31
bODERM  STITCHES INT'L EUSROIDERY  TEXT1.ESICCARDT1VEE           E    IV             1,384        846       3.532   S         1,466                1,46u      3,300                i,ioo       s990        30          3ss
MOUQUEeS. fCAMO                     NON-mETALLIc NwI. PRODS    E    IV                240         240        283   C           in5                  380         360                  3S         348          I7         26
URDNEIEDENTEWUSES, IC.   MACHWERYIAPPWtCES                        E    VI            3,6I       3,860       2.310    5          67    3,463       3,620                   an         ao         720         o0         720
uS SACHONERY a  ETAL FASRCATION  METAL EN   TRY                  E    NCR            7,142      3,276       6.638   M        3,236                3,238       3,000                30         2.700        300         235
US mACHINERY & METAL FABI'CATION METAL ODUSTRY                   E    NCR            3,706      1,278      2,43   S          3,177                3.I77       2.800               2a.00       2,00                     377
MULTIFORMSCORORATION                PAPERAPAPERPRODs.            E    NcR           12,633      6,127      28,024   M         I,oo    38,000     20,000               34,000      14,W0       6,400         oo      34,000
UM3NSavIEAR CRfEATION MFG. CO.P APPAREIFOOTWEAR                  E    NCR           30,7s6      6,862      41,462   M        34,604              34,104      30,000               30,000      4,600        600       6,5s4
MV YABUT ENlERFSSES                 TRANSWSTORM3EICOSOS.         E    U             19X334     36,619       7.270   M        2,80                 2,80        2w00                 2,000      too          200         aN
MYRA   SFISESPHILWSrES              WOOQS  WOOS PRODS            H N    vI           3,324      13.W        8,383    a       3m, 3o,10            6,000       3,600    3,000       4,600      4,080        4S0         ao
U. LUGCAMOTORCORORATIO              TRPANSJEPT.  EPAI            E    IV             3,07       1.260       4,478   a        3,0         aoo      4,101       3,000                so         2,700        300       1,101
HAPALA, DO8APAIOTE                  P TUIIMPLILIIN                E    Xi           11,00      89,131       580    S          M       3,mo      3s,00                 3.000       3,wo       2700         300         an
NHAITASNACFooDco0 P.                FOOO & FOOD pRDS.             E    NCR           32,8       2.51        2.400    M       2,02m                 2020       i,a00                3,s00      1,360        350        *an
HAVSaCOUPANYLTD                     METAL hNSTRY                  E    NcR           1,63         am        1e      a         l,oo       206       1,200      tm         ,ooo      '          9Wo         3W         2n
NvO GLASS HOUSE                     NONMETIALUC SIN. PRODS    E    NCR              6,06        6,449       2.346   M         1,260                1.260      i,mooo               los          ao         300         250
NECO SOAP   CANDE FACTORY           CNEM a CHEi  PRaODS.          E    VP            2,371       1,820      3,636   a                   les        ,66so      3,00o                i,wo3 130                           GM
NEPCO POMTHAUS                      PRI1TINGU aMilIO              I    VI             402         133        306   C           I                    176         IS30                IS0         336         IS          26
NEPCOPF2NTHAUS                      PSWTHIPUSaiE6N0               E    VI            1,391      1.026        690   5           262       ISo        412        200       380        360         336         3s          62
EWDAMAUSESTCORrOAATION              APPAREIFOOTWEAR               E    NCR         133476      11,776      38,347   M        4.,47    6,300      32,347       1,800    6,100      30,000      9,000       I,m        2,347
NEW NATUFAL FOOD PRODUCTS INNI FOOD  FOOD PRODS.                 E    NCR           8,710      4,567      1ils   M          3L2466             I3480         9.a w,o00                       7.200         a        44W
NEaw TAsaRaf            COr.        APPVAELOOTVEAR                E    NCR          17,121     30,237       6,9so   M         ,mo                 SA,00       4500                4,000      3s00           a0      1o,a
NEWSLSEt MEAL SERVICE               OT*IER6RI ES                  E    94CR         11,454      9,1563     3,5100            4,140                4,34s       2,460               2,400       2,60         240       1,946
NAARA OmET METAL FOCATOW   UMETtAL 8DUT7                         E    NCR           16716      34,42     6 aof               I 11,321            11.321       6.660               9.O         6,400         a        5.323
t8C8URFULNtU6UE SIT., 94C           FUW4NE4 ApmFIXrES           .E    NCR            7,"I       4,978      32324   M         2,360                2,360       3,sc                3ww         2700,        300        36



INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERSTCS OF SUBPROJECTS FINACED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Peass)
PfItOAM
NATURE            PFWLOAN   PFELOAN    COLLAz          M.               PROJECT COST                      LOANGtRANED
OF   REGION    ASSET    OV*WRS    TERPA             SIZE       I- -_LF _                     _         -___           ---- _ _               PFI    NORFtOtNER
tVSTMENT ENTERPMtSE                  tiWUSTFY CLASS         PROC.               SIZE       EOUtTY      VALUE   CLASS    tNC            FA       TOTAL        WC          FA       TOTAL      SHtARE      SttARE      EautlY
_--- ---- - ---------------- ---------------------------------------- ------ I                                               ----         ------------- _--   - - - -      -                     _ _       -              ---- -- 
NINAADQROSHOES8BAGSS MFG.             LEATHERLEATHERPROD            E    NCR             1,572       1,872        949    a         1.681                 1.881        680                   660         594          66         921
NtSSINMANtUFACTUItNGtCOFP.            RIJSER& IJSERPRODS.    E    NcR                   17,210      14,000      9.607   M          5,640     4,492      10,132                 3.825       3.925       3,633        393        8,207
NLUEVAECIJAGtARMENTSIND.              APPARELIFOOTTWAR              E    IN             2.131       2,036       2.770    8         2.374                 2,374       2,000                 2,000       1.800        200         374
NUNAGQ. OIOSADOIEFtLNA                APPAREJLFOOTWEAR              E    Il              6,800       8,600       1,91Z    6          733     2.736       3,469        478       824        1,300       1,170        130        2,199
ONEX 6IDUSTFtES PHtLS.                MACHINERYIAAPPLO4CES          E    NCR             5.004       3,864      12.021   6        10,000                 ooSo 8600                         o,500       7,660        is0        1,600
PASILONIA, AlICE T.                   FURNTUitE & FIXTUfES          E    IV               180         I80         400   C            t85                  196         :65                   lS5         14u          17          20
PACIFIC CONCRETE PRODUCTS,. C.   NON-MtETALLIC MiN PFROS    E    NCR                    11,851      6,498      21,670   6              0    12,000      12.000                50,000      50.000       9,000       :D000       2,000
PACIFICCONTINENTALCO6IPAKY. IC. TEXTLESICOFIAGEJTWNE                E    NCR           19.891       11.237     23,677   6         I1,1668               11,656      10,000                :0N000       5,000       sooc       ISSS
PAGSAIJANAGSREGtATESCORP.             MININCG&OUAFIRYNG             E    IV             18,224        460       10,669   M             0    17,060      17,050                 8,000       6,000       6,400        GOO       11,060
PAUlLTON ENTERPRISES                  FUWIUIUR E A FIXTURES         E    vii             7,217       5,418      2,863   6          2,069                 2,005       1.200                 1.200       1,090        520         6s6
PEFRLAS RTW                           APPARELIFOOTWEAR              E    N               1,631       1,088      1,452   5            473      822        5.096        276       622         900         900                     19s
PETE GAANGt                           MISC. MANUFACTURERS           E    IV             10,724      8.009       8,361   M          1.664      600        2,364       1.200      600        1,700       1,100                    664
PeIILEXSONINTERHIATIONAL              FOODAFOODPFRODS.              N    NCR             2,312       1,250      2,000   s          2,262     4,803       6.925                 1.700       1,700       1,530        170        5,225
PIIILIPPiNE CHEMSTEEL IND_ INC.       CHEM & CHEM PRODS.            E    NCR            13,114      2,000      57,986   M          6,332     1,250       8,682       6.000                6.000       5,400         800       3,692
PHItItPPWINE WNDOCOIL CORP.           CHEM ACHEMtPROOS.             N    Iv             16.418      0,000     36,023   61         8,060    40,121      48,171               20,000      20,000       18,000      2,000      20,171
PHLtIPtNE RUSTPROOFINGI MNC           OTIER SERVtCES                E    NCR            14,687      14,220     13,096   6           984       839        1,800        864       639        1,600       E5,00                    300
PH"&IPPINESTATIONEFWESMFG. CORP. PAPEf&PAPERPRODS.                  E    NCR            12,803      4.900       4,089   M          3,23t      300        3,631       1,700      300       2,000       5,800         200        1,635
PHI0LPPIEtVEOOLENSPINNINGiCOtP.  TEXT,ESICORDAGEITVsINE             N    NCR             7.397      5,763      41,192   M          5,000    11,335      16.335                0,035       9,036       8,132        N03        7,300
PLWUSFOODSCORP.                       FOOD4&FOODPRODS.              E    NCR            17.081     11,182      19,904   M         12,494                12.494      12,000                12,000      1,300         800       4,394
P-0LSTONEWWDUSTRtAL A5UFG. CORP  CHEV &CHEM PROS.                   E    NCR            9,149       6,668       7,076   M          2,241                 2.241       1.500                 1,600     15350         1S0          741
PHOENIX PfESS, WNC.                   PRINTINWFPUBLISHING3          E    NCR            13,318       1,802      1,900   M          3.468                 3.469      2,000                 2.000       1,000         200       1,468
PICOCONFECT8ONERYPfRODS.              FOOD&FOODPRODS.               E    NCR            2,776       2,370       1,663    a         1,112                 1,112        600                   000         640          60        6S2
PIOt*EERVPEINDYF..INC.                RUBBERARUSaERPRo0S.    E    NCR                  13,511      10,129       9,974   6          9,328                9.325       0,000                 0.000       7,000       1,060       1,329
PKSSNIPPINGCO.. WC.                   TRAoESJSTORAGEJCOMM.          E    VS            17,967       9.30r       3,687   M          5,813    8,600       8,113                 2,N00       2.900       2,610        290        5,213
POLYMASTERtNDUSTRUALCORP.             CIIEMUCHEM,PRODS.             E    NCR           13,723         900      12,361   61         7,445                7,441       6.000                 6,000       4,500        600        2.441
POLY-'IECOI STEAM LAUNDRY, IC.    IEXTLESICONDAGEJTWNE              N    NCR            6,000       6,000       4,141   14          816    13,730      14.111                10.000      10000        8, 9000     1,000       4.711
PORCKUNCULA,VICENIE                   FURNITURE EFIXIUAES           E    NV               270         270         343   0            IN                   50          166                  16          148          57         25
PORTLAND SHtOE MFG., INC.            LEATHER 6 LEATHER PRO          E    NCR           11,479       4,474      14,319   6         6,W43                 6,.43       6,000                 6,000       4,600        600         943
POwERUMETALwODENT.                   FURITURE7 &FIXTUiES            E    NCR            4,623       2,606       3,516    S         1.183                1,163         600                  000         500                     663
PREMIUM LASORATORES,hPC.             CIIEM&CHEUAPRODS.              E    IV            12,723       7,726       6,303   61        4.493                 4,483       3,700                 3.700       3.330        370         703
P166E TAG V0DUS1tES                  TEXTE.ESICOWAGEIIWNE           N    NCR              644         644       4,122    0         1,413    11.016     12,428                 2,000       2,000       1,800        200       10,428
PWIlIOSCOPE COFPORATP)N              PRNTWIGtPSINGI                 E    NCR            6,320       3,s89       6,468   M             0     6,000       6,000                 3,9oo       3,600       3,420        3e0        1,200
FROFODDtNTERNATioNAL COW.            FOOD & FOOD pROGS.             E    VS            10,151       4,092       6,e60   6         8.320     6,80       56,220                 6,000       6,000       5,400        600       9,220
PROSPERITY YARN MANUFACTUISNG   IEXTlESICOROAGEITVWNE               E    IV            17,672       7,676       6,022   U1            0     1,200       7.200                 6,000      8,090        6,400        600        1,200
OUALIPRON6CSENTERPRISE               UAC49NERYIAPPLtANCES           N    NCR              412        412         898    C           S27       226         16         So0                   600         460          60         256
OUALITYCOlTONMiLLSUWC                 IEXhULESECOAR     ETWWT E     N    NCR            6,000       5,00        7,96t    S        9,28     4,069      13,017       6,000                9.000        7,200        9oo       6.917
OUALITYLAsELS. EC.                    MISC. SOANUJFACTURiE8S        E    NCR            8,197       1,400       2,570    1            0     98,818      8.616                4.000       4,00G       2,700       1.300       65678
oUKAPOPR9T8MIAPSENIOFt REYES  PARiTNG/P1JLI4Sit4                    E    NCR            3.111       2.678       2,514    a        1,'41                 5,664       1,600                 1,600       1,350        ISO         '64
RAOLANTTFOODPROGUCTS                  FOOD6FOODPROGS.              6E    M               ,710       8,327       3.620   M         2.626                 2,626       2.o00                2.000       1,900         200         828
RAINGLOBEMFG.                         APPARELUFOOTWEAR              E    NCR            2,603       1.343       4.964    8        6.331       560       5,611       4,000                4,000       4,000                   1.611
RAUOS, SENVENIDO                      FPFUNTURtE AFIXTUIES          E    IV               420         420       6g      C           166                   16          165                  166         148          IZ          20
RAATEX NINUSIIAL                      TEXTILESICOx TGtEITNE         E    NCR            2,364       t.6rt       6,036    a        3,026     6.023       8,049       3,000                 3.000      2,700         300       6,049
RDPOLICARPttAtIlCO                    NON-METALLICUWIN.PRODS    E    INI               14,248      10,322      31,563   6         4.635    26,157      31,122                16,000      16.000      l6f000                  15.12?



Page 4,                                                                                                                                                                                                               A@m. I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISCS OF SUBPOJECTS FINNCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounis In Milln  Pesos)
PVELWJO
MATURE           PIELOAN   PIELOAN    COtA-   IN.                    PFROECT COST                    LOAN GRANFTED
OF   FEGIOE N    ASET    (      sMV     TERM     USL E             -----  -----  __ -   _              - _a_    _rF PFt    .Ofm1g E
WVETMENt ENTEFWSE                  tNWUSTRY CLASS         PF93.              seE       EWStlY      VALUE   CLASS    VWC          FP       TOTAL       YC         FA       TOTAL      61tAiE      SiAM       ECtUTY
MEUSITON PRtNTEtI rPEaS             PINTstNtPULS                N    NCa            1.200      1.210        tHf   a           745                  746          m                  6w          640         6o         146
END TRAU4tGMMO MOVELLES             WOJO   & woo "pOM            E    NtCR            utag      1649        2,e     s          l9o      m00         wl                   M0         600         460         so         tot
FENS FURtCSHt                       FURNTURE AF&XTAES            E    IV             7,40       7,6100      2.s2   N           aO      1,600      2,200        200      3,600      2,000      1,800        200         300
RFOCcINWTFES                        MAHUNEWVIAPPUANCES           E    NCR            1.170        97e        Sal   U           413                  413        350                 a3o          315         35          63
EG MAEtITRON  UONWttATED            MACHSERMIAPPL4CES            E    NCR           16.120      6.430      20,713    U        .120     I,000      10,120      6.000     3,000      6,000      6,400         oo       4.220
RVERA' LUNMaf, KW         EM  0 CONC NON-METAaC MUN. PF360t   E    U                 6.676      7.495       4,626   M        3633                 3,633       2.200                t200       3,960        220       2,413
MO 1E050o   SONS, h                PRtNTtatUp     UG            E    Xi             6,673      2322       4,132   M           60       260         760        500                  60          450        . s         260
RoS0NOOOMAWACTtFANG                 FOtODFOOoPRoDa              E    VI           13,762      16.13       10,603   U        6,000     1,260      7.260      6,000                 6,000      6,400        6O0       1,260
IOCIS HEALTN CAM PRODUCTS, DC   CttEM &CHEM PROOS                E    NCR            6.647      6.713      21,424   M S      8600      6.700      14,200      .60w     6,600      12000      10.600       1,200      2200
roE MA*tUA ACTUWI                   METALW SDWUTR                E    M              6.956      7.622      10,916  U         5,9 6       36 .5    1,303       4,000    3m600       7tw        6,f40        700       3,503
ROLTA, INC.                         MACHONEtYMPPLIANCS           E    NCR           96064      11.466      17,70  S           2,400    w0.066    32,628                10.00      10,000      9.000       3,000      2.526
FRMArSUHOEFWISSG                    FW*UTUJEMFIXTURES            E    Xi             1.067      3.552       1,334   U          460       700      1,360         ISO      700        Aso         yes         as         300
RONELINDUSRIOES                     MISC. MAIUFACTIUNERS          E    NCR           8,170      7.760       5,937   M         1,622                1,011      1.700                1,7o       3530         170         211
ROSEVER GOLDSMITH A JEMLNY 07O METAL EUfTRY                       E    xi            6.3l0      2.576       5,633   U         3.462               3,462       2.765                2,76       2N460        276         707
FIOTHEL PSUSTftAL SUPPLY            N01-METALLIC MIN. FROGS    E    VI               6.201      4.f02        636   M           319                  30         260                  260         234         26          so
ROYAL CRo       ENtCFAL CoR         O1EM A OEM  PRODS.            E    NCR           3,039      2.,f7       2,09   0          2,294      300      2,604       2.00                 2,0cc      2,000                   564
ROYAL PLASTC PRODUCT                CHEI  CHEM PRODS.             E    NCR           4.295      2,071       4,6f1   U         1.671                1,673      1,600                taco       1.350        150         371
RSN FOOD PROOS.                     FOOD & FOOD PRODS.            E    NCR            ass         6e4        325   5           459                  459        300                  300         3f0                    Is9
SAUDINFTINATONALCORP                APPAREMFOOTWEAR              E    N              4.313      2,231      136X2   U            9    19,750     1S,7$0                6,000       8,000      7,200        600      11,750
sAMOO PDUSTINES, INC.               MACHIMERlIAPPLIANCES         E    NCR           13,120      6.624      12.077   U        165,20               16.,23     12,000               12,000     20,500       1,200      4.526
SAMSON MOTOR VWOUS                  MACHNIERYIAPPIAIAMCES        E    U              4.200      4.223       2.t     S        2.100                2,100       1,760                1,750      1.676        176         350
SAUUEL COMMEFCIAL                   aOEM 6&cEM  PRODS.           E    NCR            2.700      1.67l       3.00   S--        1.52             -  1,02        1,60                 1,600      3,3S0        ISO         362
SAN FElIPE MALE & STEEL RODIJC  OHl-METALLE UP. FRODS    E    IV                     1,961      1.101       1,260   S          123      400         523                  40W        400         360         40         123
SAN LORENZOSIDUSTRIAL CO. WC.   WDOOOWOOO PRODS                  E    IV            19,9s068   390.         7,265   M        7,061                7,063       L,at 6,600                      6,000        600       1,451
SMATELCOMUMAFACTURWG CO.            MAC1NIERYIAPffIANCES         E    NCR            5,934      4,770      7,726 S            1.U00    2,600      4,00W      3,w0      2,600      3,600       3,150        350        600
SCANAGRAPK, 9C.                     MISC. MANUFACTUIERS              NCR           10,963      8,662     14,625   M         6,274                *.274      4,000                4,000       3,600        400       1,274
SEACON lPQUSTIAL CORP.              METAL WWUSTRY                P    NCR           16,62       6,uS6     16,668    M        2600                 2.000      2t000               2t000        2.000          0          0
SEAGEMS SHLLE WIC                   MISC. MANUFACTURERS          E    Vs             3.16       3,636  1,,63    5             1,323               1,323       I,wo                 l,.o       3,000                    323
SEA-COEM P6SLPNIS. MC.              CHEM LCIEM  PRODS            E    NCR           I3,701      7,421      6,660   M          ,we                 easoe      f,t600                     5.6  6,220        680        3,img
SELECTIVE TIMSER EXPORT             WOOO a MDOD PRODS.           N    IV            16,560     14,757     2s,s     M e6,0    217,300             35,600       2,600   It6         15.000     13,50c      3,600      20,600
SEVtIACANDE FACTORY, IC.            CHEIN  CHaEM PRoDs.          E    NCR           32,714      t664       0,UU   MU         s.9                  9,500      e,mW                 8.000       7,200        Goo       1,609
SEM6ASIERAPPAEL PILS                APPAREUFOOTYEA               E    NCR             700        70        2,2U8   U         2.469,               2,450       1,700                1,700      1,630        370        79
SIACONENTEWfSES                     APPARELFOOTWEAR              E    U              3J,097     5o00        3,39   S           5l0                  10         N0o                  700        630          70         It0
SISSULANMUDUTIWES                   FUFNITUES  FIXTURJES         E    U              4,660      3,603      3,0o6   U         3,606                16os        1,6o                 l,soo      1,350        150        366
5.CONCREIEPIKDICTSSSTEELSA  NOI-MEIALLEIC ON.P00S    E    U                           737        63          201   5           313                  311        250                  250        225          25         63
SOG UANUFACTUMNC COWP.              APPAFIEFOOr1AR               E    IV           133904       4.619      16,894   M        2.00       ,000     10,000                6,0         6.000 6,000                       2.000
SOAR PLASTIC COFWRATION             CHEM A HEM PROS.             E    NCR           weatn4      3.204          0   M         8.N6    2.0oo       3 11,6       ,W000               *,000       7,z00        6         3,66e
SOUTHPACFICIEIAWPENTCoW.    METAL IoDUSTRY                       E    NCR           10.293      6,696      6,16   M          4,430                4,439      X0w        3,000                 2,700        300       1,430
SOITFERN PItS. WISER MPG. IND.  RUISER A RUSSI PRODS.    E    xl                     2.123      3,367      2.6tf    6        3,366                1,36f       I.moo                lo,oW                   100        36e
SOSFOOOPFRDDUCTS                    FOODAFOODPPOOS.              E    I              4,610      3,216      5,732   5         2.431      460       2683l      2,000                2,000       3,800        200        66
SPEEDWIAY FAUWEATOR SCO. IC.    UETAL MOISIRY                   E    IV             3,30o      6.650      4.041   M         1,S31    5,300       1,391                2.200      2.200       1,960        220       4,993
SPLASHCOSMETICS                     CUEM ACHEM PRODS.            E    NCR           39,967     331,69      4,539 6           7.N 5119                         Xe om                3.o        2,100        300       4,956
s    raw.NE#E PFODS                 NOHN-ITALLIC UI. PROUS   6E    U                11.32       8.394      6,906   M         4.970                4.970       4,000                4.Wa       4 000          -         7



P6566                                                                                                                                                                                                          AmI
INOUSTESAL ORANTEE AIND LOA FUND
CK4ABACTEUSnc OF Stu_SDJECYS FMANCED MOM LOAN 3u
(Amous hi bMn P
PrN
1T0Fl            .M    N   PinaAl   COULA-   NW                   F         001'                 LOGI3V4M
OF REGION AUT  0V3   TEPAL  -SZ-                                             -_p    PR   7FIAR
lmsnMmv umuuw.su                  muMM  CLAW           pNT.               an        ufm y      VAU    CLAME   VW            FA      TOTAL          C        A      TOTAL       SIIE    64W          UMY
wOUA IEBMAUFACTUMIG                APA AR                      N LF1.TEM                     2          1,14    6        1.704     I"        2L1I       iNS  t         l 7 t      l       e                  t"S  I
slA6ADscMWANMmMAFwETlIG  mcrAL K_MhM                          E N SR            7,62        1,2        3.66t x          4,636               SKI        2.0                 2.M        2.0         200   t .m1311
STANZAI 6N1VWARICW                 APFAVfLFOOTVEAR             E    NCSI         I2,77      4.22it    2t46   V          t7.#1               17.221     Wa,8ll              itt00       g.mt0      i."        7.221
STA bO FLAW rT MP. C               CtftA OI EM PRODS           I    NCft         2.4.        2.       It,760   a Eal                        6s422      32260                Xx11       Xsia lmf 3iX72
STAXI X MAWTUB  COR.               MEIA. INDUSTRY              E    IV            7,742      4.2t4     2.422   U         2.t42               2.642      2.6011              Z3         2.20s       260         142
STFANOFOOTACOFWtOATWN   APPAMSAJOT_AR                          E    NCR          I6713       6.4        7,161   N        2,71t     7t4      32.60       2.21S     764       2.016      2,700 53                603
ST. JMo  tMTICRAF                  CHEM0 A OEM FOOD.           E    NtCR            _         24        1,367   S         76                  766        wo                   one       sioe                   606
JPW111  OOSDS                      FOOD   FOD PRODS.           E    Vs           1<,471     16.21?     IT6.6    W       12.064    2.ee3     26664       7,661    1.600     lIm        12.6t0      1.110      6.,64
aUrEacaipA       uESI              A     IFOO A                IE   NCF           1.424      1.226     2,665   a         1.2S2               1.252      1,206               1.211      1,_6        120         52
SpUPcyE aEyMB4C0..W S.              Am.JWT. IL IEPA           E    NCa          16.46t     6,171      M7G14   N         4.t41               4.,41      6,00                5.tie      4,6001      K         3.441
SVNfICATaOnA         tF6t MFG.. S.   APPARELiP 11AR            N    NtR          12.74      f6e47      16.L31    V      2N.ewt   II,Ot       1,2300    20.060              20.m00      6.ma       Zs"       11.300          -I
TALA4 L6VAUW   . W.                     Doo&  vFODL            E    U            16.416       26       17.e14   U        7,264               7.264      6,NS                k,m        4.660       Sao       3264
TA1L MOTO4TARE   WUGALANO  TRPA.rT. * MPAR                    E    VS            1,126       674       1,122   *         260                 ISo        260 Y00 go                      S"         66        200
TACT4CSAM6SITS                     APPAR iFOOTVlAR             E    NCR           2.677       916       Xm     a         2 Se                2.211      I.Mil               lNS esa                 16e       400
TAA E               S CE CENTER coTTAnGE   uTFRY               E    NCR           7,262     4.U7      16,8   tA         6.000               5,emo      4.003               4.0001     3o          400       l,ooo
TAN, TEITA                         tWNCIFIAFTS                 a    IV             BIG        so         447   0          Iff                 196         I"                  S"         14S         17        o0
TAM EXCLUSES  SWC                  APPAu6JFOOTWAR              E    NcR           1.,66      1,79       I,'m? *            16      6u        1,140       676      126        70n         30    4     0        440
TEIo rs aA tMU   T EE              APPAfWuOOr      AR          E    NCR          7,0u6      VUO       306.0 o           14,0W    1,0.0      26.200     t0000    0.0m       2e00        V000       2.006      6,206
TODOIRAGMIENTOMPG                  COTTAGE SKUSTFY             E    NCR            236        a02         0   C           262       66       322         300                 3oo        306                     2
TES16 II.  56*0N   FASDS INOP      APPAREl*OTlAR               E    NCR            663        76       1,426   a         .24                 1.*34      1.N6               1.100      1.100                  224
THEfEJEKATHSEENFPO. INC.           APPAREIFOOTY41R             N    eV            .m,       em          ,o X   U 0    M 3.770                3.4  I,o.                      Iwo    1o420   t        5e      16.70
TIIVIE PAPR PRODO.                 rAPE & PAPER PRODS.         E    NCR          8.724      0.454      6.66    N        6.017               6.037      s,oe                 *o00       4.14        S20 s."1
TNCI4OOItQSJSTIC. M.               METAL uSITRV                E    NCR          67,76      0,267     21,001   M        14.117    .100      1.117      io,om   6.te        16.mo      12e600      I,600     4.117
TWMGWNNUSTf S,IC.                  METfAL NUSTRY               E    NCR          7,7M       2.41       Xs66              21.211             3.211      2.6                 2.tD3       2,266       250       7Ti
TOMB. EJOTA UAtElurK LY            NON-METALLC UK PrODS    E    ri               7.462      0.042      4,40   I           t.56    1,001     4.204                1,J00       .00       1,2356      150      2,764
TOPVAY NTIEFATUo6AL Ic             T62TIESICODAGEOImNI         E    NCR          6,042      2.64       0,2ll  M         1.02    I16.26s     It266               7.000      7.001      *,3eo        7e0      6,2f
ToRATEXcoRP6aOTWN                 TEX16EWcGGOAGAVIE    E    NCR                 10.123     10.714       t,    1U 0,0 oo            604     24,s64      6.000               ,o00         uso        106     23.664
TtIRfMUT gM.smEENTErmmI           PMF TU    WL*U46            N    NCF           2.76        760       t,676   a          us     4.000      6.1                 2.toe      2,6011     I,m          20       2, I"
TFANSPIrT CORORATION              PWSNTUIGOWLNHtG              E    NCF        tIm          6,4 11    at-    M          t744       2m       2.640      2.6110              2.         2.260        25t        440
TRAN6MUTCOWrORT4N                 P60 _ftffiG                  E    NCR         65,706     11,267     2.       M N'6_S6 6"                             s.m000              s.00       4.so         us       ,1IU
ITEm    WO. IID WG.                NiUERSAOWERPRWo             N    N            J.26U      6.*2      106,73   M        3.11,  2t,N1       232713     3XMl    11,6        14.tD      14.D                   *.213
aFsIOw Sure.. cOw,                T     RPANSATOPAGIuM.        6    VI           4.324      1,661     U.2u   S             6    11,742     11.742                t,m       S,oo       4.0          uso      6.742
trlHPLAcco            Tlo            EM IEM                    E    NCR "M      is,        12,6 7     12.176   M       1226                13X2 1     10,00m              ao0.m       J.m  ,000        3o2.1
TF Hem.pRlwucV LYCHAN              METALSINUSTRY               E    NCR m..w_               Vt,44      7.2u   M         2601                2,610      I'to                I.om       1.,s         IO       1.0160
TRO PIC M        UUES  SCOW        OfEme aeCEuMacu.                NCR         66,820   V ,666       66,162   M        %442               22.442       lmooo             I6,000.    14.11       I,m        4,442
TlUEA66R  PUNP                    M4ETAL tUtflTRY              E    NCR          4,66       4.201      3,646   6        2,tt7               2.t07      2,4.0               2.400      2,40                   467
LOSON MACHINIVC6G WM               6ETAL.4 OUtITRY             E    NlCR         6.762      4.66      62.6     M        $."0                lst       0,40                  .460      emo         74        ,41
L4IEDAN      AVlATRIMMINGF  APPAMRLFOOWA                       E    NCR         12st        6.533      7.667   M         .,012              9.612     7?.n                7P.         6.130        66       2.tl2
UNTED VWOL CafOrDO NT              CHEM a         aOEM MacU         N a         10.421      7,66      66,67    M        7.679   1.021      17.616      4.00    10.031     iM IVUI I               .Xto      2.66
uywY rMNmp.t.mWc,                   gipTomja-m                 E    NCR         63.647     10,0.         032   M        6J134               66134      SV_ 66      o    o             4.o         S"        1.234
WRSnAR NM AD 7PAM                  APAP119CDTUS1               a    NMc          &..        iwo       2tu    M          4.0t                4.6U      4,606               4.,        am          4_          BI
LmWins MOCAaTLA I MPG COFI.  CEM A OEM  raS0.                  a    NCR          61717      6.62      224   M          II1    6.6SA        16.401      61.66    .4_       16.m       WOm                    206
lMPIAfE6O6Fm Ec                    FOoDaFOODPOO                     ICR         16.N7t      6.         4. 14,4.0  M0    01U                 o."        BA6                 som *.m                 as       I ko.



r2*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FiNANCED UNDER LOAN 303r
(Amounts In Miflion Pesos)
PRELOAN
NATURE            PFAOAN   PFN OAN    COUA-      W.                  PFE1CT  COST                    LOAN GRATED
OF  REIN  ABSET  OvSw    TOM   SanE                                                                                        53F         PR   m oNuR
pAgj E, EMiffW                     &MusTRY CAB            PRtJ.              SZE      ElOlY        VALi1   CLW         ue        FA      TOTAL        vEV        FA       TOTAL      9HAFE       54AFE      EQUITY
VA 6 SONS OWL                       CM  A CEM PROS'S             E    NOR            0.361      4,351       2,84    U         3.04       s20      3.50        1,600                1.600      1,360        160       2.00
VEtP64TCOAT5AION                    PMdrSRISPSUU4G               E    NCR           15.211     *,234      *,U84   U          12.231              12,281      10,0                 10.000      .,000      1,000       2.201
VICTORT  FACTORY                    APPAREL0f lEAR               E    NCR             8w          740       1,200 s            75                   754        300                  300         270         30         484
VICTvOn  OLILITY PA aCAA        CO.   CHEM A CHEM PRFOO          N    U4                0       5.200          a   S          .0eo    31,0000    30.0                 IV000       16.000     14,4X        I.00      23,000
VILLAIOS8AOHNE u4OP                 UAQlERYAPPlMNCES             E    Ix              i0          U0         27o    a          2J                   203        tU2                  163         137         is          s0
VIUINALtU2 METAL PROWUCTS           METAL  SDUSNRY         E           NCR           2,01      1.2Z7        s      a           "                   70         600          600                 460         s0         20
WALLEX SINUSIAL COW.               PAPER & PAPER PRODS,         E    NCR            8.3J4        w        11 0?7   U         7,270               7.27,       5,000               .sow        4,80         so0       2.279
VWLLAR wOMTftALCOl .                lEXT tEhICOJtEYan4E          N    NCR            7.0.0      4.376      16.371   U        17,137               17,137     13,000               13.000     11.700       1.300      4.137
WE LLPACOORPRATED                   PAPER&PAPERPROPS.            E    NCR            6,103      4.004       3.210   U         1.60     2.00       3.600       1,000    2.000       3.000      1,000                  2.so0
VWSTEM FAIWO  PNILU'PS4ES           TEXTLESICO _WA3EITV.4E    E    NCR              11,212    1I.212       $1,406   U        8,00     14,000     30,00        2,000    14,000     10.0o0     6S400         000      14uo
Wlt<lN ENTEtS8ES                    a1EM ACIEMPRODS.              E    NCR           8882       S.048       2.77   U          G,le                6,520        500                  a"          720         so       S,72
VONSEX v I FROCIUCTS cow.           E0SER A R  UBBER PRSS.    E    NCR              19.0,0     13.7S3      I."?   U           *.210               8,230       s.o0                 s.000      4.800        600       1.230
M4 PLASTIC S01US33                  CIEM A CHEM PRODS.           E    VX              405         303       1112    C          t42                  U2         410                  400         408         45         112
V Y _LPS HI4MIVT MPG.               APPA8WJFOOTVAR                E    NCR           4.800      3.8W       13,07    S        2.614    10.710     13.233               10.000     10,000      8,000       1,000      3,233
VT4DERTEX FNXiC. U4FII              TEX          TtEtOAE   _INE  E    NCR M         1,077      12.477      16.240   M       21.73S               21.73S      1,S 2                1.X02      14.000       1,66       S,174
twovYw u3                           CHE  ACHEM PaOS'S.           E    NCR             1.501     o.so       4.074   U   '    8,10       2,0        *,170       2,000     ,oo        3.000      2,70         300       S,170
VIDCOLANDIAPr OSUCTBSPI.S           V WOODS  WD WPRODI           E    NCR            4.710      2,UJ3       X400    a         $.2                 1.628       1,000                1.0oo       o90         loo         s20
WOOD SEASON FUITLWE 4NC.            FtuRWUE A FIUTURES           P    UV            17.060     12,236          S   U          4,000               4.000       4,000                4.000      4,000          0           0
VYADARSFOOODPROUCTS                 FOOD&FOODPROM                E    21             4,004      1.436      1,280   5         2,40                 2.45        1,000                1.000        900        100       1,432
4o                              TOTAL            2.01.6      2 07,   a        * 335,3 ,   1.700   8        2   2 036   104,146   674,202   I,6.300   ll78,0             18204      f008
AVER,AE                 7,14       8,100   S ,14S               4.w-5    t82    S     ,0 W        *40     1,414       4.464      SS            of1  2J341
COTTA. -*1
SvMALL:-0"
CoTti npp



Page II.                                                                                                                                                                                                       eAx  I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUOPROJECTS FINCED UNDER LOAN 30
(Amounts In MINIon Pesos)
STATUS                   t tUAFITEE
STEMST TATE                             TVPE    DATE      DATE   ADWIIT          MAWOWER      Of     TERMI           P--OJ-    P                        R OJ PR OCtIR
_     -      -                            OF  FLEASEO RELEAD                                 ACCOU1NT   OF   GRACE  CFEC4T  COIL  DOMESTIC EXPORT    PR."            ENT
UWESTMEWT ENTErANSE             PS-PFI  IPEA       TyPE        PF       PI    TOPFI    TO IE EXTUS  PROJ. ACUAL (1M314   LOAN  PERM   R1                    E"T   SALES    SALES   PHWT  MUETHOD
13 P.M. EEWISESS 0.g%                             5L*%    F      ISTC         KR   W-I4ay41 3-May41           7      a       4     C          3      e.J                    1.69          a      422
24K RAITMGCO.. W.                       16.6%     6.6%    F    ASIATRUST       8    1-         11-Se4t1              7       7     C          5        1                    4,050         0      271
AET A1       uSHOE FACTORY              15 .%     L0%    F    MBIC            KS   12-.l     24-Ju-O         23      5       e     C          5        1                    6357          a      779
ACCUMANt ERTW GWCFORAITED               11.3%     5.2%    F    M5TC           KS  1104-4g eu-FOb-S           15      7       7     C           5       1                     SM:          a      627
AOO . KODOLFO                           14.S%  *.6%    v    PARSADA    1            6-km-U   N-hi-1           S      a       7     A          5        1                      gm          .       Id
ADOD  SEA      SEP3IOP0CTU. INC.        17.6%     L6%    F    USTC            KR  23-May-S1 24-Nay-ut        at      4       a     C          7        2                    34.116        a    4.543
AGANKA NACISO                           14.6% S    .6%    V    pAOAAN    Rll  S"-.-   I3-Ma-O                21     12       *      A         E        I                        e       g00      its
AOL PLAUTI4WIT R       fUT              17.6%     6.*%    F    ASIA8T1ST    TB   W--S   1--S1               4U       5       a     c          E        I                     ,33          e      343
AoL LASTI-PAIT  NIUSIRY                 155%      6.6%    F    ASIATMtOT    T&   14-4_-45  192-hf-           46      a       5     C          a        1                     5m22         e      453
MmTcOuMERON iJ.OERIoGALA                17.6%     L.%    F    UETC            KS  21-AugbIl 22-Aug4       .2         7      II     C          S        1                    6.455         0      438
ALEXANDER1SAR                           16.4%     4.6%    V    Soo            TO   17-Sep-0S 24-Sep-U       13      25      25     C          7        I                    27.115        0    1,ff1
ALFA-TECK CHEMICAL. 1       MP.COF6.    18.4%     56%    F    PLANTERS  Dl    2-AP-42 3-Apt-U2              I7S     I       la     C          a        I                    10.279        0    2,325
ALFA-TEOI.COUEICML. MFa. COIV.          17.6%     5.1%    F    PLANTE"G    DS   1S-Je-01  17-h-SI           I"6    Io       Is     C          7       2                     14.U4         0    I,6
Al.HAFEEDIML5.0S IC.                    15.6%     6.6%    V    roPw           D    06-uleaS o24be-of         32     *S   *         C          7        1                    40.245        a    2t3n
ALtIALUMOSEIACONSTRUCTNSWP              0.6%      5e.%    F    M5TC 0         S   23-May-SI 24-MAy-S1        IS      6       *     C          7       2                     4.217         a      364 loc
ALPIN TEIIATIOWA. EXPORTS. MC.          17.6%     4.6%    F    PLANTEIM      011   11I-SI  3U   OS         256     *1      31     C          5        1                        0    24.057    1.765
ALUCAST SINTERNATIONAL MFX  IC.         17.6%     5.6%    F    USIC           KS  0-Aug-41 0U-Au-SI           a     20      44     C          7       2                     17.E0         a    2.036 blo
AmEWE         N TEsE9iOLANDOL ALMA      IL&%      5.6%    F    MOIC           KS    I -hi-U   1-hI-90         5      2       2     C          6        1                    4.566         0    1,141
AMAN1 IiDIXUSIA.                        11.%     6.5%    V    PLANTERW    DS  12-Ceo-"  15-De-58            50    to       10     C          7       2                     7,562         a      930
AIGOSIEEL FACATORSCO.                   156%      3.6%    F    PLANTERS    De  Il-Sep-0 16-Sep-60           410    11i       0     C          7       a                    24.950         0    4.63
AMITY MANUPACTUPUG                      16.2%     14%    F    M45c            KS   OS-a-   07-b0aa-S         5I     12       0     C          7       2                    15.278         0    2.042
AOAUARhENTEPOES                         10.7%     &3%    V    UDIC            KS   26-is-I  28-JM-53          a      3       3     C          6       I                         0     2.33S      296
APCRUZTANNERAIFfED                     1I5L%      5.%    F    14T0            KS   14-Jur-b  21J-M          II      *       S     A          a       I                     3.330         0      293
Ar.m VOLAUNA                             11.6%   5.6%    V    PANGI          R0  28-0a-6  92.JOS.           IS      6       6     A          5       a                     1.400         a      245 b0l
ARTEWIA. FEDEINAMTA                     16.6%     7.6%    F    PLANTERS    DS  25-Aug-S1 27-Ag-sI           74       0      46     A          A       I                     ?.453     6.500      250 Meal
ASIA EUOMOEIERY a aAIENTS N.            I 1.3%    6.2%    V    UB1C          KS   3-laI-SO  3-Sm-11          6      22      93     C          S       I                       60o    6.40         62
ASIA ENINE IE0U OERSl. MC               11.3%     62%    V    USUC           KS  25-be-5  27-De-Ol           76    IS       to     C          S       I                    16.916        0    1,5U6
ASI  METALS                             15.1%     6.*%    F    104S           DS  04S,-S1I 12-Sg-gI          a      is      is     P          7       2                     1.750        0       220 blc
ASPENPAPSERPAROCTSCOFW.                 16.%      4.6%    F    SWO            TO   2o-Ap-82  A4p-02        1i       W      112     C          7       1                    45,204        0    *,846 l5
ATLASTACKS                              11.3%     L2%    V    MSTC           KS  22-Dec-46 25-0Do-          a       is      is     C          5       1                    10.475        a     1.456
AUTOFI4ATIC MACHUE 50Or                 14.0%     56%    V    MOC            KS  25-Ju-91 21-Ju-610         4u    IS        1      C          6       I                     6.56,5             1,0U2
AY TANLUCOmAnUtACTIII. MNC.             15.o%    1.6      V    eDO 110       TO  17-SpNe 20-Sep4            30      to      Ia     c          6       0                    32076         0    3,211
S&TtIOU9E OFCOCIET                      14.0%     9.6%    v    ALIED         KS   u4-Jm-IS 22-Jkwm-f        S I5             0     c          3       0                        a    IS.tl,    2.l7
BAY IAGIC GAIWEHTS MFG.                 155%      60.%    F    14TC          KS   134-90  27-h-N           164     62       52     c          7       2                    43,645        0    5.338
SMAY MAIC GAEIENTS MFPG                 21.2%     *6%    F    UPTC           KS  26-FPa-SI 27-Feb-SI       204    IS       la      c          5       1                    20.o39        0    4,n72
BALANGA u        SDwE   *O  a ENGINE RE  17.6%    5.6%    P F    PI-FSP      1S   27-Jam-1 12-h-91        24      a       S     c          a        1                    3.4" 5               645 bed
MLMOT HOUEFUrOSHSNaG                    1311%     1.0%    P    USIC          141  1S-May-SO e4-May4O        s6    IS       IS     c          1        I                   2i.243    e         2.006
BASE COFrOATION                         11.2%     7.1%    F    ASIATIRUST    TO  21-Oeo-56 22-Feb-0         2 5            le 1   c          7       2                     4.320         0    4.714 oca
SAYADISECOVHAND 0EALER                  11.3%     5.2%    V    MaTC          KS   *7-0ec-O1 14-050-OS      129    32       *2      C         s        1           17.0%    14.,10        0    2.5t7
SEAUTEX 6RIS A PANTS MPG. CO.           i.2%      .0%    P    ALLFEID        KS  25-IIe-S 03-Ja-01          45 t            a     C          1        I                    11.069        0 C17
ELT GAS AIR      610.7%                           7.%    P    PLANTERS    DO  Il-Doe-11 1*-De-4U            40    .6        a     c          7       2                    26,94          0    2.692
KENSON MOTOR SALESCOW                   11.5%     4.6%    F    P6006         KS   U-Ai-U  12-hiM           MS If           as      c          7       2                    75,411        0    L.a"
OEI#Y MAIMWACIUF A COIW.                17.6%     4.6%    F    PlANTERS    DO   iS-m-91 22-Ju-S1           220             3 e    c           7       1                   30.294         0    4.70



pt  It A*it
INDUSTRIAL GUARAHUT AND LOAN FtIND
CHARACTERISnCS OF SUtPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Aowiws In MEo  Pao)
tUATl                    UAANTEIEB
INTEFEST RATE                        TYP    DATE       DATE   AOITXINAL MAHWA           OF    TEM            -       --       PRI.    POJ.              PROCUJ
OF  ROBASED URA.EABED                  -       ACCOUNT   OF    ACE  C04T  COLL. OOmEUTIC ExPoRT   PROJ.  MENT
3w16TMENT ENTEWr3S           CP4-P   SPFSAD   TYPE         PR       FfP   TOPR       TOME  EXUUI eo.L ACTUAL  lW31MAl LOAN  PE3O0  FN6   IMT  aMEs    SALES   PROPFIT 14ETtOD
3E"IU A I3ISiSTNEU. INC.              155*    4.6      F    rIANTEM      PS  11-Sep40 124"40          3t0    no    3        C         7       1                   33.744       0    6,637
NICOL 065666 INTEINATIOAL. INC.       10.2*    4.60*   F    FEC          KB  26-Ape-Il 36-A2-         le      a       7     P         I       6                    2,620    1,37S     207
mm.G                      14.0*    L6*    v    MOTC           KG  34-HE.-41 '1-&IGY46       3    42       42    C          7      2                    4,77s        a    1,715 local
3lAIi-530, C..2.*                              L*%    v    MSTC          KM  t     t-Fol n-Febl       40:   IS       le    C       .  7       2                   14201        0    2,SI0
_eoUToVoA                             14.t*    L5%    V    MTC           KM  1S-Am-I  20-A540         42    1N       1s    C          s       1                   22,04        0    3411
1gM11FOODUVSUT MC m564 10.1*    1.*O V _                      406        06   35-00 61-la-W    -              a       S  *            le      I                1                     1.32111
CA mSaU    inA 7g                     16%      6.tl  F    ftADTUm         W   ff .40 27_ itl16   .   42    a         a      c         7       2                    6,71       5      464
CASAM114TS 17,11                                .1*   F    PlAMTE3       Dll 32 tk"s 54-AuO           NS     40      a      C         7       1                    7,2N0       a      307
CAIALE. gAMTIVA  L                    16.4*    4.8*   f    tW                 3 I4-p-2  1-u0p10        N'    a        a    a          0       I                    I.m         0      416 loo
CAL.OIA STUM LA V MM                   8.14%   4.6*   V    MTC           KU  25-F#sI 2t-Fe            I4"    1N      Wt     C                                     10,073       a    1.112
CAMIAWJNM4 &t tSAE AIM0               U12      LOU    F    nATR          06  04-Feb4 lt-Feb841  n             is    1t      A    '            3                   34.,54        a *.  R3
CAN1MAIYtAET CS"T                     11       0.2*    V    MOTC         KS  1t-Jan45 17-5.41          24    13      la    C          a       I   23.0*            7,470   3         I,I12
CWOMENPAF G5,2CS                      17.0*    0L%    F    PLANTEr w     01  12 ,-00    4-01 ,4,    43               is    C          7       1                   21,6         0    2,363
CA      AINIS. IT15.0*    0.                           F    US4a        Kt4 17-Sep0 U-tep-61           so    a       ao    C          7       2                   l,420       S      3i1
CAOSIH11         ES W                 164%     L       F    Mac           KU   90-I"   11-.MI40        a      1      II    C          a       I                   1o,"?7        a    2.610
CAISWOA JONS - CAGULM  MAN            is.$%   1N.0t    F      t66        as  Il-11tt -Sl tl-h_-Sl       S    iS      so     A         0       1                    2,60         a     4U  Ind
CATHERFIE 8340 UHOPESO LU            10.1      Lo%    F    5TC           KU  22-Au41  I0416-6             I s 36     16    C          6       I                    *.37J        6    1,36I
0CCFOO      IJ00UCT0                  16.1*    1.*%    F    HMOs          06  37-100-60 0S-Jan-61          a          S    A                  a                    4,620        e      se4
cE1u Co      OTNS4AL FISISI           13.2.*    &*    F    PwrP          06   0-Tam-t1 164 4           60     r       S    C          7       1                   21.t44        0    ISS AusMOk
CEBU PrE        UMACETUWO             100*    Lo%    F    IMTC           KU  3141-16 260gm -O          14    3       23     C         7       2                    0.413        a     so
CE1U RTTAN SETIOAME DEO1INS           14.t*    LS*     V    UBIC         VA  1-kw-" ag-Am-I          307    lo      le     C         a       I                       0     4.65l     540
CENUOWDmY  AA(FEfIY                   IL5*     0.*    F    umC           KM  N,4lap-6 21-Mep-IS       t4    tS    Is        C         a       1                   34.304        a    4.*75
CEPE11oET Ft#t5J0  V. SmN0EZ          11.3     5.7*    F    24TERAK   tcS  2t-lM40 r3-F16-U           I10     6       6    A          5       I   60.0*             348     1."7       70
CE ttEuMI  oULTR rALRCOFW.            is.t4    LO%    F    IITO          KS  17-t.9-6  24U-S.p-0     ltS     12      12    C          *       I                   20,766       0    3.113
CELt SHTANDISES                       11.0     6LS     V    PLANTERS    06  12-000-0 I       t-oh0    141     0       4    C          7       1                   12.515    1,546    . 44
CSOTIMYwau.AElXe0R                    14.0*    6*.t  V    HMOS           06  14-.Am0 *I-5.40  21 0            a  ,          C        so       I         *.602                  a      so7
CEW DFOOPOW0RA11A                    17.0*    0.6*   F    VStC          KB  6t0-Ag-I 604      1      47    2e       20    C          S       1                   34.740       a    4.211
CHAMISFASIOtN LOW                     ItL6     LOU    F    MTC           Ks0 KS4101-- 21a0 st    Is                  1      C         7       2                   10.049       0    2,131
CEiSI  WIhTtNmA  MElI                 1&1*    5.0*   V    143101         06 It-Jta0  20-li-IS         24    :6        0    C          7       1                   2,266     4.601     V31
CtEt5       c L oREWGICOWr.           16.0*    66*    V    FEStC         KM  IS-Sep-IS t-GlO-          IS    10      to    C          7       1                  34.475        a    2.130 hid
aCmSIELMINIBESW                       l?.7*    LOU    V    ALIED         Ks   l1-Ja-40  3-Jam-"       10?7   *7      61    C         to    0.5                    01.604       a    5.101  td
CTItZ woAUOEMLV                       17.1*    to%    F    Uarc          KB  67-Ag-I 30-Aug4          22      6       s    C          6       1                   7,163        0    1.6311
CUAIWOA3NV CDOU NY                    111f     L1*    V    tCIC          KR  1341         I S-Am-SI  46     2       Is     A         A       I                   It7.76 1    1      1,446  N_abui
CUA6ONENTfEWS        WC.              19.9*    3.%    V    RCSC          KU  0i-Feb-01 13-Feb4l       62      S       0    A        0.70     e                   20.200    17.256    4,260
aCEVELAND TEXTLE ULL                  l.tlS    LO*   F    POOP           0s  12-Jan4   N_eem0-8        0    7s    7N        C         7       1   46.6*          *7.u22        a    1.320 Tidum
CUT HAI66AFT                          17.6*    6L*    F    rLAWETF       06    -4.u-I 17-1           .230    3I      21     P         7       I                   11.370       S      283
COlUMIJFOODPlt0UTS                    16.0*     0*t    V    tr4tc        Ks  lN-map-60 5-SV-IS        as      a       S    a          s       I                   *.56         a      335
CO SIW UISTMES                        100*    6t0      F    fPANTE       CS   31-0-I *   1Aug40       16     is 1    of    p          7       a                   7.60         a      as
cOTT0UCSGVST tit,tNC.                 17.0*    4.6    F    rPoCm         Ks    1U-401t   IS-led-I      l     W       26     C        12       3                  *0,377        0    4.,64 T_m
CUUR& APAOES COW.                     IL&%     7.6    F    PUIEFx    as  RS-hS-I  2StAm-6             44      a       S    C          7       1                   e,4e         a      121 howl
C Ju      l_tM               t         LS%    16.6*   P    aMOs          06  30-Feb4  124MulI         67    17       17    0    5             I          i0                  .eee     In
crASIA 0A5A6 0 U                      14.41    6.*    F    1fLNTOW       06  3541-6 060-5u4           i5     1        5    a          a       1                   5,46         5    37 ,160                              I
UsUSAWSE""fRGCOOTI          .         tS6i*    t43   FP  . SC            VA   31404-00 601.3-10      In       7       7    C          a       I                   F.111              2 3.40



P.g. 13.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ann.. M
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Pesos)
STATUS                     GUARANTEE
INTEfREST nATE                             lYPE    DATE         DATE   ADDITIONAL UANPOVER            OF      YEnJ            ------- -----    PfOJ.        PROJ.              PROCUR
__-- -     _- -- --- - --- --------       OF   RELEASED FELEASEO -----               --- -        CCOUNT   OF   GfACE  C(EDIT  COLL. DOMESTIC  EXPORT    PROJ.   MENdT
INVESTMEtIT ENTERPRISE            DPs-PFI  SPREAD    TYPE           Pfl        PFI    TO PFI      TO IE   EXISTING  PlOJ. ACTUAL  (12131102)  LOAN  PE1IOD   P4SK  SlOfT   SALES             SALES    PIIOFIT  METIIOo
.  _   _                _--- -- -- ---  - -- --------- --- -   -- ---   - -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- - --- -- -   -- -- --   - ------- --  --- --- -- ----  -- ---      - -- ---   - -- --- --_- --
CIUJZANT ENGiWIEERJN4                       16.4%      4.6%     F     LaP            SB   30-Api-92 30-Api-92          *0       0        0     c           o                                6,000          0       173 lcal
CTU MANUFACIURINO                           1.6% '   60%        F     MarC           KB    31-Jul-O  02-Aug-90         i        4        4      c          s         1                     16,300          0     2.176
DAIICO rPO6IATION                           12.0%      6.0%     F     MUTC           KB   02-S6p-91 09-Sep-S1           a      72       72     c           s        1                       s.260          0       403
DAILYFASISON  Fo. COWP.                     11.1%      60%     v      LUDTC          KB   12-D.c-SI 1-D.c-SB         144      3e       36     c           6        1    35.0%              t2.647         0       396
DAO1AGAIIG4USEOFFINE HANDICRAFTS            1I6%       *6%      F     FEBTC          KB    ISJ"ul-1 24-Jun-01          57       3        3     P            I       0                       0,622          o       142
DAVAO WaItED ENGINEERING & EOPT.            1I.2%      96%      F     MUDs           TB   27-b.c-k4 02-Jn-9            31     1 1      I      P      e                                     17,521         0       636
DECO UAClOiE SHOP EEC                       13 05      8.e%     v     HUbs           DB   IS-.un-90 26-Jan-00          74       0        0      p                   o                       7.673          a        097
DEEDCENTEF4 INC.                            17i1%      6.1%     F     PLANTERS       DOB   1-May-SI fl-May-S1          so       0        0     P           o        I                       6.413          0     2,160
DELTPIA CEflEALECOFPJOTOF    4              i6.5%      3.0%     F     EGtITABLE    KB    02-Jul-SI  04-Jul-S1         ISO      32      32      C           7        2                      57.351          0     6.212 local
OKCle wuuSun COW                            10.0%      6.0%     V     ALLIEO         KB   12-Oec-8u  IS-DOc-IS        126      10       I6     c           6       0S      7.0%             10.413         0       226 Talsan
DOCKUASTERENTERPRfSES                       11.6%      6.0%     v     MSTC           KB   12-Dec-S9 21-DeC-65          23       6        6      A          s        I    36.0%              4.600          0       6o4
DOSCII P111.. ENTERPRISES,. N4.             16.4%      36%      F     LAP            SB e 2-un-S2 30-Jun-92            22       2        2     C           3       0.0                      6.720          0       G0  local 
DRAGDoKNlIO II4OUSTRIALPIilLS.              156%       4.0%     F     PSCOu          KS   09-Sap-k  17i-Sp-SO         too      35      36      c           7        2                      48.849          0     6.11 I
DSL  YDUSTRIESIDAILOS. LASAO                17.6%      6.0%     F     UBTC           KB   07-Aug-91 14-AMg-SI          aS      to      IS      A           6        I                       0.62s          0     1.943
ouuAosr. PETERfEIESS                        10.2%      66%      F     PDCP           OB   22-Jan-61  22-Jan-S1         21       I        I     A           6        0                       4.362          0       771 local
O UENDOZA, 000YAOcS  S5ASII FA              17.9%      0.0%     F     UBIC           KB    12-Jul-S9  12-Jul-61         7       S        6     c           s        1                      13.05           a     1.o00
E&NGUEAO  R ATTANCRAFTIND.                  16.0%      60%     V      UBTC           KB   17-SeP-k0 17-Otl so          13       2       2      A           6        1                       6.037          0       057
EASTMAN BOUSJSIIAL SUtPLY. IIC.             11.9%      60%     f      MaBC           MS  28-Au9-SI 30-AU9-91           46      20      20      C           7        2                      45.120          0     6.420
ES UONTE TImE RECAPPING                     I1.6%      6.4%     F     DCOS           TB   12-Sep-SI 27-Sp-91           0       6       6      c           3        0                         165          0        4S local
EBC UEFHA0OSGwEDUArO LAW                    17.0%      6.0%     F     UBTC           KB   21-Aug-91 26-Aug-S1          3s       s        6     c           s        I                       SI1            0     1.005
ECC 412 PfI NTS &OftAPC5                    17.9%      4.0%     F     CIONASANK    KB   05-Aug-91 12-Aug-S             l0     . 7       2      C           7        2                       4,660          0      233 local
EDDIE ACOJEOOMARBLEENTEFIPRISE              I$6%       60%      F     BOSIOLIIS      flS  03-May-91 109-May-S1          1      24      34      c          to        2                       6.862          0      316 local
EJ OOuEZ COhCRfETEPRKUCIS                   IS0%       6.0%     V     UBTC           KS   17-Sp-So 20-Sep-k             a       3       3      A           S        I                       3.608          0      446
ELDONWVDUSTFWALCORP.                        i7.1%      7.1%    F      UBS            KB   fl-uayS I1 I-Jun-S1          14     1I       1     C             6        1                      34.405         a      3.7J4 local
ELECTAINOT.AGRPEF    TERSOURCES             16.9%     4.0%     F      BPI-FSB        TB   01-Aug-91 07-AUg-S1         21      13       13      c           7        2                      14.764         o       265 local
ELPArFOUE UACNE SHO                         191.%     S0.%     F     MSTc            KS   ldJan-l ID-Jun0-S1           IS      3        3      C           7        2                       4.764         0      1.236
ELYSSE MOTORS                               14 2%     70%      v     flIUG-AY        RB   22-Ap-92 22-Api-92          36     1         s      c           7        2                     30,760          0     5.647
ENLISTExPORIS                               152%      4.1%     F     FEBTC           KB    S-Ape-62  o0-ApI-02        20       0        0      c           I        0                       1.262      1.760      110
ElF4ivToFOOOPRODUCTS                        14.6%     40%      F     EauTASLE    KG    31-Jul-k 02-AM-k              61s    166       166      C           7        2    60.0%            41000      25.000      .469
EqurMENT IESEARcO O&EV. COF                 10.0%     7.0%     v     IITEIRRK    KB   20-Dec-66 06-Sep-60             41       0       (1I     P           6        1    40.0%             7.000          0       200
EFWCS  OMEAIEfUrSEfLa                       11.3%     5.1%     F     PLANTERS        GB   28-Dec-s9 04-Jan-66         G0      10       to      c           7        1            13.6%     6.022          0       029
ESPRINTERS 3C.                              94.0%     3.6%     V     fCSC           KS  2i-Ju-90 24Jue-S0             36       3        7      C          4        1                       7.000          e       700 MAuee
E9JGE6BO.EUJGEIIOJIYUAIFELI6N              17.9%     6.1%     F     PLAITERS       DO   1-Jan-91 26..Jua-1           13       0        6     C            6       1                       5.116          0       2l bocal
EUASIA METALPARTSCOfr-                      1s9%      4.6%     F     PLANFERS       DS   26-Apt-l2 18-May-52          93      10        6     C           7        I                      14,46U          0     1.29
EUVIJCOOL CRAFT NIUSTfRES                   179%      0.1%     F     PLANtIERS      OB    OS-Jul-S   05-Ju1-91        46    136       131     A           6        I                      46.097          0     1,000
EVEARAUPEIEXTILEMfO. COWP                   11.2%     66%      F     MUIC           KS  053-We-90 04-Dc-90           IIS       7        7     A           0        '                       A.746          0     1.277
EXCELLENCE PACKAGWIO conI.                  14.7%     3.6%     F     FESITC         KS   10-May-60 Il-May-90         S0       21      21      P           6        1                      24.407          0     1.002 lcal
ExELCPAFT.IC.                               14.0%     60%      F     ASIAlTUST      TB   04-Fab-91 04-Feb-61          30       0       5      p        0.26                                   0        196        26
FASLACY UADWACTINWia                       108%      66%      V     FEBTC          KS   ol-M,-9I 14-Au9-91           13     21       21      P         2.6      9.6                        737          0        16 local
FELTo4MCO6IMECIAL&bD CORP.                 IS .b     6.s%     F    USIC            KS   17-Se-SO  04-SeP-90        lOS      26       26      C           6        1                     114.166         0      7.764
fFvAR   GAI6ENSCImL ORAOIRAO               16.6%      8.6%     F       OIOL PA      RS  62-May-SI 06-May-I            13     IS       96      C          to        a                       1.409         0       397 local
FLPrlBE HIEWLUICES. IaC                    I6.3%      6.6%     F     PLNIERS        GB   II-.m-91 17-bM-91           as     223      23      P                                           42.622    31.006     2.586
fLOAOUENEICVENTUIES                        113%      4.7%     F     FICII          KS   IS-Jaf-SI fl-Feb-Il          36     to       1S      C           6        I                      I9        22.757    IS.944



Pag  U.                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Anna 2
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUEPROJFCTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Pesos)
STATUS                     GUAFWITEE
IIITEREST RATE                            TYPE    DATE        DATE   ADDITIONAL MANPOWEn            OF      TEnI                              PROJ.    PROJ.                PIlOCun
-- --    - ------   ------                  OF  RELEASED RELEASED ----                    -       ACCOUNT   OF   GRACE  CREDIT  COLL. DOMESTIC  EXPORT    PROJ.   MEIJT
UIVESTMENT ENTEFtPRSE            DP8-PFI  SPREAD    TYPE           PFI       Pfl    TO PFI      TOIE   EXISTING  PROJ. ACTUAL  (121311294  LOAN  PERIOD   RISK   SNOlR   SALES    SALES    PHOFIT  METIIOD
-                                                                                                    ----------------------- ----------
FLORA P. QATOLJ3A                           i.3%t    6.72%    F     DSP            SO   28-Dec-49  12-Dec-68        38       0        0     C           2        0                      6,277          0      474
FLOnANTE GARuENTS                          :7.9%      7.1%    F     ASIATRUST    to    20-Jul-Si  17-Jul-91         76       0        0     C           6        1                     573186          0     S,264 local
FLOrIES.JEREUMAS                           140% o      .0%    v     PAGSANJJA      HO   08-Jul-90  16-Jul-90         4       2        I     c           8        1                        720          0       122
FUC UA UUFACTUItNO CO                      :.8%      4.8%     v     ObOO           TO    1-Deco-86 18-0D.c-9        so      20      20      c           3      o s                     23,36s          0     1.897
ftRIwUlE EnT. CO. PIULS. IC.               74S%      8 0%     F     PLANTErS       DO    l9Jul-sI  26-JUl-91       207    231      231      C           7        1                     186S29         0      3.074
roATuI8E PLASIC PRDCESsiaO  CIlE           it2%      40%      F    PLANTEfS        DO   oo-F.6-9g  Il-Feb-91         7       8       0      C           8        1                     25850           0     2.644
FIAOARMESGISUFGCOrP.                       I1.6I     6.2%     F     UCPf           KS   08-Jul-91 15-Jun-91         so       0       0      P           I       0                           0      8.900    13246
FTAGARMENTSUFG. CORP.                      14.0%     80.    F       UCPO           Kb   82-AMg-SO 09-Aug-80         60       a       0      P           I        0                          0      868s0      652
FUtAMAIOIDUSI FAMCOIW.                     I.s%      8.6%     V    UMtC            Kb   12-Dat-e9 19-Dec-69        01?      13       13     C           6        1    24.0%            22,809         0      13.S4
OaaSOlIOPIrNTERS                          :.2%       7.8%    F     PDCP           DO   22-Jan-ol 2-Jn-91           43       0        0     C           s        I                     15,301          0     2.270 laceS
oA i oADJtSP ES                            17.9%      6.0%    F     ASIATPWJST    IB   07-Aug-St 14-Aug-Il          34       a       a      C           6      0.6                      5,s8           0      570
OA EL. JOSEF11,OtDA                        1:.6%      4.0%    F     BPt-FSO        TO  I3-Sep-SI 12-Sep-SI          le      34       14     C           6        I                      3,328        640      627
aALAXYsAG PROoXuCTS                        :.58%      4.0%    F     PLANTERS       Da  20flun-O   04-Jul-60        246    1T7       it7     C           7        1                     12,651          0     4,469
GALtLENACCAVTS, SIC.                       I9%        4.1%    F     FEIIC         KfJ  31:-Oa-I 07-Jun-91          so      26       25     P        0.04        0                      17.092         0      640
aAPAi AGGREGATES. eC.                      179%       8.0%    F     SItC           KS   31-Jhl-SI  31-Ja1l-1         0      38       Is     A           1        2                     I.6.10          0     2.27i lcal
GEI8ESIS MLtAET218                         12.S%      06%     V    N2DB            DO   2:-Jun-SO   24-Jul-90        9       7        7     C           7        1                      4396           0      4S8
GLAFOODUA8JFACIUfwI                        11.3%      82%     V     MOWC           KB   24-Jan-86 31-Jan-89         102    300      300     A           s        1                     24,630          0     4,56
OLAFOODOUAtFAACTUFTO                       :d.6%      80%     F     ASIC           Ks    26-Jul-92   2-ul-SI       ISO      62       82     P           8        2                     42,000          0     l3,0o8
GLORVUEIAL PhOUCTSMFG.                     18.4%      80%     F     MOUC           KbO   o-Apr-62  13-Apt-62        23      10       20     C           6        3                     31.400          0     3.231 local
GOtOPAOFIN4G&0fJI CORP.                    16.4%      0.1%    F     FEIC          Kg   13-Apr-92 20-Apf-92         76      26       28     P           6        1                     93637          0      2.278
GOLD PAOCAGU AMAuFPCOW.                    :7.0%      1.1%    F     FEBTC          KS   13-May-SI  20-JU1-S1        70      I        II     P           I        a                    :70s,2          0     4.305
GOIlDNrEPAt CORPOA10114                    :6.2%     4.0%     F     PLANTERS       Do   20-Dc-90 23-Dec-90         368      30      30      C           7        1                     26,045         0     3.268
aotDENFtVEAPLASiWCOD. COFIP.               iS.S%      8.%     F     MUfTC          K4  17-Sep-S0 24-Sep-S0           o      48       48     C           6                             48,000         0     4,239
OOLDFWIIESOAPMFG.                          17397      7.1%    F     LPSLA          TS   26-May42i 22-May-09          7       4       4      C           7        2                      64306         0       261 local
0atDS PFINOWSSIVE DEV. COFR                168.%     S 8%     V     MOTC          Kg   IS-Sep-tlO  IO-Oc-90         6o      l0       lo     C           s        1                     26,974         0     3,309
OGANOM0DFUlTuFrluE8cX            O         16.0%     S10%     F     PLA8ITERS      OB   06-Apr-12  14-A.9-62       1ie       a       0      C           7        I                     33,686     12.619    3.241
GnEEN STAF rFW8TWGPIWSS                    IS.6S     6.9%     F    U1F1Ak          Ks   08-Jl-O  11-Ju1-90          I7      S6              P           2      0.6                      2,067         0       132 local
OS SPPEMUELDAELFNWO                        :s.O       6.0%    V     uialc          KB   :6-Sp-S0 04-t-SO            IS       4       4      A           5        1                      4,154         0       622
Il8W4FOFPILIPPINES INC.                     71.%     4.0%     F     AS8AIIuST    TB   14-Aug-01 14-Aug-91          278      la      60      C           7        I                     38,406         0     3,333 bcal
IINSWOODSIDUSIb0ES                          09.2%    60.%     F     MOTC           KB   13-D.c-so 20-Dec-90         64      22      22      C           7       2                      32631          0     4.318
IJnSOt4IUSIFALCOP.                         11.9%     60%      F     PLANTEFRS      DO  22-May-62 30-Uay-61         388      66      6S      C           7       a                      14,30S         0      3.040
llELSMUA1&FACTUFSVHCORP.                   :4.4%      e0%     F     PANITERS       DO   30-ApS-52  36-Ap1 92        eS       0       0      C           8        I                     17,703         0     2.333
IIEtIoSAAIVACTUWWIGCOWr.                   32.9%     4.6%     V     PLANTERS       DO   24-May-90 31-May-90         6S       0       0      C           7        1                      6,833         a       61
nEIWESSY NuTS-FOODCoRP.                    .%       40%      F     PlANTERs       De   IS-Ocu-0  IS-Ocl-SO        288       0       0      C           7        I                     85,084         0     4342
IN2zOJLAaORAlToVES                         1030%      S.6%    F    fJ8P           5S   04-4.4-46 03-Feb-06         146      30       10     C           7       2                      41,000         0     3,217 Gera. US
I8DLYSTEEL MANu*ACTIUFIINO                 1.8%       a61%    v     PLANTERS       DO   12-Dc-66  26-Doe-46         12       a       2o     C           7        2                     27,780         0       427
nOuE EHIEPRISES                            32.1%      7.0%    V     PlAIERS        DO   12-Dec-e9 19-Dec-86         It       6       a      C           7        2                      3             056  a  3sA
tEALr P5iieRsCO                            11.3%      77%     F     ASIATIOUST    76   22-Jan-89 e7-Ma-1s           64       8        4     C           4      08                      I6S64          0     3.497 bcal
INCKINO  UACASAEI TSAWoINCOCE.             344%       6.6%    F    LPELA           10   lo-Ap19.2 22-Ap:s.2         13    131        i      C           8       a                       4*ss0         0        s26 local
IIJDUSIFrAL GRFXP  OtL    C.               17.9%      60%     F     CIIABSIK   K9   26-May-61 21-May-91            193      80      60      C           8        I                     71.254         0       S69
pacuAKER *CO PWOATED                         0*%      6.0%    V     uasic          KM   17-Sep-NT  06-Oc-90         20       a       a      C           S        1                     10.535         a     3.515
U4IFoArCFwTSOF TIHE  ADS 0                 36.8%      6.0%    F     m0rc           KB  24-May-SO 2:-UMa-rn         230      20      2e      C           A        2                         0      29.703    tES3
eiTErlMlapt. aGFlWAL AUIO PMlT             0o 2%      4.3%    F    fllC            KM   26D9e.890 32-lJet.0          a            S7  3     A           s        2                     7>r.n          n I     *v     ,



Page is.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AnI
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Mlillon Pesos)
STATUS                     GUARANTEE
INTERE5T RATE                              TYPE    DATE         DATE   ADDITIONAL MANPOVWER            OF      TEfM                   -PROJ.    PROJ.                          PROCURl
_--------- --------  --------OF   rELEASED nELEASED - --                        --   ---- ACCOUHr   Of   GACE  CIIEDaT  COLL. DOUESTIC  EXPORT    PROJ.   MENIT
HVESTUENT ENTERPRSE                l-PTAPFI  SPREAD    TYPE         PFI        PFI    TO PFI      TO IE   EXSI1G  PrnOJ. ACTUAL  (12J311971  LOAN  PEIQD   RISK   SI1XIT   SALES               SALES    PROFIT  METAOO
__ -  -- -- -- -     _  _ --  -  -_-- - -   ---     - - - - -   - -     - - - ---  - - -     -  -  ---   -- - ---- --                                            -  -           -----   --- __   --   -- -- --   -  -   -  --   -- -- -
IwU      UOTORS                             16.4%.   6.6%       F     LPSLA          T5   22-Apr-62  30-Api-02         Ia      la      IC       C           s       0                        7.800         0       384
ASAAOG P16410 54IC.                         11.6%      6.0%     T     ASIATRUST      TS    20-J1-89  20-J-81           45       0        0     C            6       9                      636            0     2.462
JAGALfTAENIEIW SES                          19.2%      6.0%     F     PLANTERS       DO   10-Apr-62  17-Apr-62         27      90       0o      A           E        9                      11.49w         0       434 heal
J.AGALftAENTERASESE                        13.2%       6.0%     F     ASBATIWST      TI   28-Jan-I1 01-MU-1           35       0        0      C           r        I                        eoN          o       su.
JATOCORPORATItON                            355%       6.0%     F     MBrc           KS   21-Jun40  26-J0n-0           s6       s        6      C           c6                             16.243          o     3211
JANNSMFGAENGM4EESIG                         33.0%        6.%    V     S NEGROS    DO   14-May-00 21-May-00              8      is       I5      C           S       0                        1,781         0       486 beal
JANNY9EAIIAFPELSIMELCIHOARAA                976%       60%      F     MBTC           9(   26-Aug-S1 2f-Aug-01                   6 8      s      C          s                               30I63           0     3s11
iL CHEMIEINC                                19.3%      8.0%     F     ASIATRUST      TB   23-Jan-oS  18-Mu-es          23       2        2      c           s        I                      38.500         0     2.t2
JK fUPVTuRE MANUFACTULWN                    14.0%      s.0%     V     UMTC           KS   08-Jun-80  13-Jn-SO         988      20       20      c           s        I                      420376         0     3o958
JCLEEDSMANUFACTULoWJ                         1.5%      5.0%     F     Boo            TB    0-l-SO   IS-Jo              So       s        c      C           5       0                       6.363          0       703
jl4N TERREHNCEMANUFACTUFl60                 21.2%      8.0%     F     MBTC           KB   28-Jan-1 04-FTb-SI           r       20       20      C           6        I                      119146         0       314                           '
JoistTERlCE MANFUACTUJII 3.1                           8.8%     F     UMTC           KS   12-DeC-0S  14-Dec-US        10       30       3 0     C           s        1    25.0%             22.683         a o    17u
JoP4ROOtOEYGAAUENTS                         19.2%      8.0%     F     MTc            KG  12-0ac-9 oS-.Jan-51         3o       10       la      A           6        3                      34.335         0     ssw
JONAS VITERNATIONAL PHIL                    9.8%       6.0%     F     ASIATRUST      TB   14-May-00 28-May-Uo         250       0        a      c           a      0.6                       9.1683   65.144      1.019 heal
JONERSAVTWEOUAG8O  Y                        11.9%      8.0%     F     MTOc            Kll  22-Au9-91 22-Aug-91         I9      90       30      C           S        9                      8.795          0      3.030
JORDACNE NATIVE CRAFl PH4ILPPINES           14.0%      7.5%     V     NMDB           0B    93-Ju1-90  20-Jul_-0        35       3        3      C           7        1                     40.0198         0      .157
JPS GttMENTS                                16.4%      6.8%     F     LPS5A          TB   30-Apr-92 21-Apr-92          27      26       2      C           5       0                        7,920         o        l77
.ROAR tENtS                                 35.6%      7.5%     F     LUZONSD         De  29-May-SO 23-May-SO          27      96       i6      C          90        2                      5.255          0       319  eoal
JSECOUUMEAC9AI                              9.5%       8.0%     F     MUBTC          KB   17-Sep-90 26-Sap-90         3        5        6      C           6        I                      4.612          0       456
isOuOTORSCORPORATION                        14.6%      5.0%     F     UblC           Kbl  I3-May-SO 28-May-S0          24      26       20      C           5        1    25.0%             18.486         0     2,149
JlTO .MA^RKEINl0CO. OFTHEPII PL             :71.%      5.0%     F     MBTC           KB   20-Naev-91 05-Au9-91         30       3        3      C           5        I                     219.52          0     2.915
JUNi6ALILIFASI06NHouSE                      94.0%      6.0%     F     ASIATRUST      TO   22-May-90 29-May-SO          42      10       10      C           S        9                      11.752         0     2.306
Jvl FOODfPRODUCTS                           1989%      5.0%     V     8DO            TB   04-Fb-91 08-Feb-91          143       6        6      C          5        0                      12.30          0     1S902
KAFMUADON TRADING                           17.9%      6.9%     F     FEBTC          Kb   20-Jun-91 14-Jun-91          12       8        0      P           I       0                      IS.224          0     1,280
KEESISA TOYBDOUSIRIES                       17.9%      8.0%     F     MbIC           KB   08-Jun-S1 0e-Jun-B:         t1?       7        7      p           6        1                      7.974          0     9.428
KIMSUNHANDICRAFTMFO.                        17.9%      6.0%     F     MITC           KS   0O-Aug-I 089-Aug-93          29      20       20      C           7       2                      15.411          0     2.,44
k(110 MASIER 1106USTIIES                    Is9%       *.i&     F     PLATEAS        Da   13-Apt-92 20-Apr-02          42      95       16      C           1        1                     10.963          0       604
KINlG FIINTEAS                              14.% S      .5%     F     NUDtl          Dl   14-Jan-0U  21-Jun-90         27       0        0     C           6        0                       3.902          0       346 Japan
K1110 SIZE UFO CORP                         I1.3%      60%      F     0DO            TO   27-Dec-89 01-Jan-90         175      26      2      C           0        0                      200929     28.350     1.650
KINJOIN JOUSIFUAL COP.                      19.2%      4.0%     F     PSOOU          KB   20-Dec-90 21-9Oe-90          62      17       17     C           7        2                      25.329          0     2.49a
LADY lACK EITEWPFISES                       14.0%      5.0%    V      MUIIC         9K   20-Jun-90  03-Jul-90          35     32       32      C           7        2                       8,953         0      1.205 heoal
LAtDIDEX llDUSIFSES                         30.5%      4.6%    F     EDO             TO   17-Sap-SO 24-Sap-90        260      25       20      C                 0.5                      15.381     10.2U4     2.5068
LAVIN4A. JU TOl.EO0ITINA                    IS.1%      6.9%    F      N6UDh          DIh  26-Aug-91  92-Snp-91        47      20       20      C           a      0.5                       5,400         0       277 hceal
LEJAL LAbO4ATORIES. INC.                    99.2%      5.0%    F      MOIC           KS   :0-D%e-SO  98-Dec-90        37       7        7      C           C        1                      22.547         0     3.238
LIBIRAN NOHIERITO                          19.8%      9.5%     V     PANci           llt3  20-Dec-49 02-Jan-SO         9       0        I      C           5        0                        600          0       150 hcal
LIMA, OLIVERDE                              140%       40%     V     PAOSAIJAN    RS   05-Jun-90 02-Aug-90             3       I        I      C           5                                9 L00        0        07
ISIII CRAFTS, SIC.                         197.%      60%     F     PLAIElS         0     16-Ju.1-91  23-Jul-SI      27       o        a      C           5        1                      10.700         0       2
ttNFOODPROOUCTS                             95.6%      5.0%    F     UhlC            90B  17-Sp-90 26-Sep-90          III      6        5      C           7        2                      15.324         0     3.104
LONDON PAINIT & VAIVAISII CO.. tUC.         I9 2%     4.5%     F     EOUITABLE    KB   Ia-Sep-S0  25-Sep-90           40      la       10      P           7       2    40.0%             46.200          0     4.749
LOFiENZANA INDUSr1ES INC.                   17 9%      69%     F     PLANTEFlS    D0    OS-Jul-U:  12-Jul-59          40       7        2      A           7        9                      S.027          0       SUe
LOTUS EMBFISJDEIY                           94 0%     40%      V     SOtlDUAIIK    K3  26-May-90 25-Uay-9S            22       1        2      C           5        1                      2.713          0       855 Japan
L. DAVIS LEAIIIEIICPAFT                     21.2%      50%     F      UNIC           KB   04-Tab-91 02-Feb-89         12       5        7      A           7        2                      3.93d          0       072 hcal
lean! ii& lr11u34910f4 uC 9f 10 7?%                    68%     V      l:l.Fsn        Tu   02.Jan-.0  12.N-1-OS         14     U        U4      C           6        2    f0id 0'.!l!,9                    0       3' lIu,u,.u,v



PAS is. A@*n". I
INDUSTRIAL GUAnANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Pesos)
STATIUS                     UARA14TEE
BIIEREST PATE                             TyPE    DATE         ATE   ADDrTKXOAL MAuANrEl            Of      TERM                ---      --   PROJ       pFoj.             Pnocun
_--------- -------- --------                OF  RELEASED nELEASEO ------ --                       ACCOUNIT   OF   GrACE  CIIEDIT  COLt. DOMESIIC  EXPOIT   PROJ.   MEIJI
U4VESTMENTE7IIERSSE              DPB-PFI  SPRAD)  lYPE             P PF      FFI    To rr       TOIE   EXISTINO  PFA. ACTUAL (121021:2)  LOAN  FE10o0  IOSK   ShtOnT   SAIES               SALES    PRlOFIT  UEITHOD
UIAOPATAG. SOEfRDONI                       14.0%      6.0%    V     PAOSAIJAN   nRB   RIJan-SO 21-n S-f0             S       2        2     C           C        I IoO                                 0       70
UIOACW4G MADUFACTUtNONCOEPP.               10.7%        %     V     1t             nrW KS i-n-sI  22-Jan-I1         57       a             C           G        I                     22.11           0     3.157
MAIIIAtCOUFOCOpp.                          11.3% o     .2%    V     UMTC           KB   2-Jn-ms 30-oJn-8           230      20       20     C           4        a                          o a   10,44      1.846
MAILAO ITUBECENTER                        %u.%       1S%      V     UaIC           KB   12-Dec-S9 19-Dec-55          0      20       20     C           7        2    40.0%             7.660         a       062 Talean
uARuLASSInJUSftAL COAP.                    1.5%       5.0%    V    roo             YB   201-Jn-0I  12-Ju-0-1        Iso      1        1     C           7        0                     72.000    234.220     5721
UASS DYNAMIC ENT. COW.                     11.3%      .2%     V    USiBC           KD   20-D.c-Be 27-D.cS e                 14       14     C           7        2                      4.07s         0       682 local
ULASTER  S"V1OS1SCONSIFhCTIO               17-1%      7.1%    F     1s0l           NB    04-Jul-SI  lI-ul-I        200       0        0     C           S      0.1                      6000          0     4.571
MAVwELL, CHEMIA CORW                       17 s.0%   S.1%     F    PLANTERS        De  31-Moy-sl 04Jun-SI           24       0       0      C           2        o  .                  14605          0      1203
UAXEF SIoESMAN4UFACTuO  NG                 16.2%      6 0%    F     MBTC           KB   11-De-00 11-Dec-90         32      la      to      C           s        I                     11U02          0      1'E22
UcENI4OE aARMENT UFO. INIt.                15.2%      S0%     F    UhiC            KB   1O-Dec-00 12-Dec-N   10              a        II    P           1        I                     31.335         0      tCSS
UDAJJNENFEfUWWSE                           14.0%      50v     V    PLANTERS        D0  21-Mop-So  ISJun-Nt          So    IUI      IS0      P           6        1                     22.502     22.602    1ts6O
MEDICALGENEfIC LASORATOrY                  11.04      1.0%    F     INFERIJA?      m Kr   Il-Dec-So  16-Deo-8s      60                a 0   C           1             60.0%A            122            0      412 local
UEoAPAeK CON4AMJER COIP.                   10.9%      1.0%    F     MBTC           KB   20-Apr-f2 21-Ap-S2           3      62       72     C           7        2                     82so00          0    12,14  Japan
UEJOAADSUJLTI-PAODUCT                      u.%       23 0%    V     PBCOUJ         KB   12-Dc-sO  o5Jan-o0          so      40       40     C           7        2                     20U5S           0     2.362
uElflO UUti PFODOUCTS INC                 Is1.%      4.5%    F     EOIJITA1LE    KB   14-Jon-So  21-.n--0          So      62       42     C           6        I                      6.01      11u741      726
UIILIMSSIE. INC.                           11.%       12%      F     PLAWiIEtIS    DR   21-Jan-S9 31-Jan-SO        202      6U       14     C           7        I    40.0%             10SS4      1.522      400
ItIWIS S61OE. IC.                          17.1% s     .0%    F     PLANTEnS       DO   Otun-0  24-Jun-91          300    720         7      C          7        1                     21031t          a     22062
uIL-OIDUAlJUFACTUf1to                      11.3%      0.7%    F     ALLIED         KS   24-Jan-SB 21-F.b-85         130     20        0     C           5      0.5                     29sso           0     2.171
UIIIoA1AO COCOOEVELOPMENTCCOlIP            17.4%      S0%     V    UIUC            KB   430-.c-n  I11-D.c-eo        44      to       10     C           6        I                     3tL0S9          0     4410
MINDANI4AOEDITORIAL &PFWITING              16.2%     10.0%    F    NIuDO           DO   20-D.c-S0 27-Dec-54         23       4        0     C           7        a                      4.140          0      240
UOoEAN STudItES IT'L EMOFRDDERY            14.0%      1.%      V     BROO          1t   14-Jun-90 21-Jun-S0          so      1        1     C           6        0                      1.451          0      434
LoJARES. PFDW O                            14.0o      5.0%    V    PAOSAIULAN    lB A    0-Jun-So  12-Jun-N          4       2        3     C           1        I                      1.S64         e        90
MAIoIVERSiFIEDENIEIWIFSES, INC.            10.%       6S6%     V    FEDIC          KB   26-Fab-lI 23-Feb-01         22       S        4     C           S        I                      1.20I          0      209 lcal
Us SIACIUIERY I MIEtIL FABI'CAOKI4         Is 11%     10%     F     MUIC           KB   20-Jun-S0 2f-Jun-fl         64      s0       so     C           s                              '6,.So         0      1.604
1SSMACIIWRYI METALFABllICAIIO#4            11.3%      12%     F    UiJIC           KS   24-Jan-6I  01-Jan-50        54       S        a     C           S        I   40.0V.             *.50          0       sic
UJLTIFFfvtS COAPORAICON                    14.0%      1.0%    V    RCUC            KB   26-D.c-rn 21-D.c-WC         10      IS       12     C           7        2                     17.442      1.220    2t000 TalUmn
UUISIt#WeFARCREATIONFMFO. COWr.            11.1       4.0%    F     PLAITERS       DOB I -Sp-N0 IS-Sep-SO         376    274       209     C           7        1                     43.320         0      1.678
UVYVAUT ENITEAPRtSES                       16.04%     7.6%    V    PCIEt           K    27-Dec-N0 20-Dee-fl0         4       0        a     p          .I s                            1033          0     4H02
LiyRtAEIJUStFESPhWIlPIPNIES                1.S%      6.6%    F     "mDo           08  20-May-SI 00-May-SI          I6       1        A     A           7        2                          0      S.670      300 loAl
U. LLIGUI UOIOFtCOflPOfAtION               11.9%      6.1%    F     PIANilEnTS     OE    IS-Jul-Il  2l-Jul-SI        10      0        0     A           7        I                      9.930         0       374
IAPALABOIPWARTE                            11.4%      4.0%    F     LSP            SB4   0-Api-S2 07-1ay-02         21       1        6     C           2        1                     12.3U8         0      1.412 bloal
NfAfSAStJAECFOODCORP.                      17.1%      1.0%    F     MBTC           KB   22-MO-SI 2fl-AM-SI           l0      2        2     C           S        I                      6.310         0       637
IAvS ACOttrSP YLto                         11.0%     6.0%     F     SPI-FSB        la    Il-Jul-0  tS-Jul-SO        76       6        1     C           S        1                       410       1SI2       261
ItvGLASSIIOOusE                            I7.0%      50%     F     ASIAJfuST    IB    12-Jul-SI  10-Jul-01         20       0        0     C           S        1                     12.315         0       3ts
INECOSOAPaCANDLEFACTOIRY                   10.1%      5.3%    V    UErC            KS   10-Jan-1S 17-Jan-89         40       2        2     C           S                               SoNo          o       46t
tiEPCOPIBtI ItAUS                          16.6%     11.1%    V     S. IlEGR1Os    040  20-Dsc-Si 02-Jan-l           to      4        a     C           1        0      o0.0%           2.242         0       34S
NEPCOPRnTO4 AUS                            1.2%       7.94%   F    PDCP            Db   00Jan-91 2f-De-No           12       3        4     C           4        I                      392i6         0       349 lcal
NiEW DAMA BEST COWAORKAT"I                 10.9%      2.1%    F    SOLIOAJK    KB   20-Api-52  20-Ap-t2             20      10      l      C           7        2                     1I.200         a     3.431 Japn
tIEWNAIUFIALFOODPfWOUCTS NIIF              16.1%      1.0%    F    UBTC            KB   17-Sap-90 24-Sap-9f         79      26       24     C           1        I                     1IS02          0      16910
NEW SiARtOAJ1ENT COW.                      16.2%      4.0%    F      BI-FSB        Tb   20-Dec-90 03-Jan-91        226      .3        3     P           1        2                     61.113         0     2,179
ClEW SuiNFiSE MuEAL SERVICE               1I.046      40%     F     PREMIERE       De   l0-Dec-s9 20-D.ec-0         so       0        0     C           7        2                     17.472         B     to64
IOAGA4A SIEFI MEtAL FA800CATOnS            19.2%      4.*%    F      PI.NAIERS     OS  20-Dnec-N  27-0ec-9f       32s      101    ls       C           7        I                     26.4U4         B     3,727
IrI4rue(IJIIItif I  JN..0 YIC              190%       16%      F      I AtIEIts E   1D  19-Jun-91 2-Jun-S91        240      .0       20     C           s        I                      ' 1r4         4       .n'I



Pags IF.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Amex I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CIIARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Mlillon Pesos)
STATIIS                    GUArANIEE
MIlEnEST FIATE                             TYPE    DATE       DATE   ADDITOIAL UANPOWER             OF      TEnR             ------  -         PROJ.     Ploa.              maOcun
_--- - - - ----- --------OF  RELEASED FRELEASED ------                     -  ------  ACCOUNT   OF   orAcE  CrEDIT  COLL. DOMESTIC  EXPORT    PFRJ.   MENT
IVESTIUEriIENlERPftSE            DPU-PFI   SPREAD   TYPE           Pfl       Pfl    OPF1       TolI    EXISTIIIC  PFOJ. ACTUAL  (12/311523  LOAN  PE0IOO   RISK   SIlOIIT  SAtES          SALES    PnOFIT  UEtoO
--    - -  .--. -.- ---. --. -- --- --  --- --- -   - --- --   --- --- --- --- --- --- --   --- --    -- --- -- - --- --- ---  - - --- --   --- --- - -- --- --- --- --- --- --- --   --- ---    -- --- --   --- --- --- ---
NINAA tlDOnoSIOES&IAOSS UFO.               Is         6.0%    V     MOTC           Ka   17-sop-So  I7-Ocl-SO         26     lO       Io      A          6        I                       1.201         0     2e076
N4ssNUANLUFACTltWOOCOAP.                   21.2%      o0%     F       CICC         Me   30-Jan-S1 30-JU-SI          S8       a        a      C          6        2                     25.141          0     3,s15  local
IuEVAECLJAAMftuENISDO,                      S5%       0.0%    F     UBIC           Ka  21-May-So 26-May-SO           is      a        4      A          6        I                       1680          0       650
NUHA, DKEIOSDADOIEU11DA                      %%       6 1%    F     PL.AINTERDS    De   214.0-n-   01-Ju-SI          33      0        0      A          7        2                      12,000         0     1.164
OeamXO USTIESPtyLS.                        11.3%      60%     V     BOO            Tb   23-Jn-el  14-Fob-SO         too     20       26      C          7      0.5                      15,042         0     2,660
PABLOISA, ALICE T.                         14.%       6 0%    V     PAOSA4JAN   PIB   0Jun-SO  12-Jun.                4      3        3      C          S        1                       1,200         0       100
PACIFICCONCRWETEPRODUCTS.NJC.              11.1%      4.0%    F      SPt-FSb       TB   H4-Nov-SI 0s-Nov-sI         10      40       40      C          to       2                     24.022          0     3,3e6  Mec
PACIFICCOIJTUIENTAM  COMPANY. INC.        12%        4.3%    F     PLAFtTERs    DE   27-Os-fl 04-21-SI              20    4164    6s0       C          7        I                     36.06           0     3,431
PAoSAMNAAGG GATESCORP.                     i02s %     5.0%    F     USTC           KS   21-DOc-SO  03-Jon-SI         60      0        0      C          s                              2 6,000         0     7,020 bcit
PALULToIEDITEIPUSES                        14-0%      3.0%    V     MPTC           KB   14Nay-M e 21-MaY-SO         277      6        6      C          S        I                          0      12,831    1.350
PE7LASATW                                  10.1%      .61%    F     PLANTEAS  DS    26SJan-eSo 2f-Ja-e               30      6        5      C           7       2                       4.230         6  051  Mc                           L
PEFEGAL-JA                                 10.7%      6.3%    V      LUZONDB       OB   10Jan-b0 Io-Fob-OS          157     4        40      C          12       2    40.6%                 0      11,670      911 s-
PISLEXSOSN WTEVAlTO6AL                     14.0%      7.6%    V    AATfiMST    TS   31-Jul-SO 02-Aug-9S               0     SG s      6      C           6      06                     42.644          0     2,266 loal
PHILSPPSIEc IEUSIEEL INOD. tIC.            57.0%      6.0%    F      MOTC           oS   l_-Jun-eS  lI-Jun-SI        40     16       12      C          A        I                     20,038          0     4,450
PFla MSEICOL CORP.                         1.0%       6.8%    V     ncec           Ks   04--J l  06S-ul-l             S    122      112      C          s        I                     70.00           0     2,000 Japan
PHIaLtIPIEcRsTPoF . INC.                   lo.?%      77.2%   F    AATIUJST    TR   04-Jan-So  03-Fob-ag            170    3I        60     C           4      0.6                      11.020         0     1,105
POIU IESTATIONEFOESUFO. CORP.              1S         ssWA  6.6%  V  So            TO  24-UMa-SI 31-May-S1          *4      28       33     C           S        1                     20,977          0     2.42 Mci
PHLtNIE WOOLEN SPIINII  CORP.              155%       6.0%    V      FCC           KG  23-May-SI 22-May-91           0      07       24     C           1        I                     34,10o    40,000      2.647 Thsaand
PFlIPSFOODSCoW.                            14.1%      84%     F     000 Tb    O            1-n-S  I-D.-O            102     2*        s     C           6        0                    10565S3          0     2,424
PItSTOWEEO STFSALAMUFO. CORP.              110%       00%     F     PLArEAIS    OD   lo-May-SI 11-May-01            32       3        3     C           I        I                      18.818         0     3,020
nIOENxr"ES.3IC.                            1170%      60%     F     PFANIEIIS      De  23-May-SI 30-May-So         400       0        e     C           7        I                     2o040           0     1,039
IcocotEcTig nrYFROS.                       11.3%      6.2%    V     MUIC           KB   20-Jan-so  30-Jan-IS        33       6        6     C           S        1                       1122         0       460
poOiESanIv. 1.. INC.                       15.0%      4.0%    V     PE4COU         Ka   O0S-Sop-SI Il-Sp-SO         Ito     40       31     P           7        2                     32,409          0    2,320
FK8sIIIPPICo..0,Sitc.                      14.0%      7.6%    F      UlMOSa        O    1o-J.n-SO  20-Jun-80 e      SS      12       12     C          t0        I                     34,424         0      2.711 Japan
POLYUASTERSIDUSIFLALCOFP.                  10.2%      5.0%    F     MOIC           KS   12-D.c-S0 20-Doe-9O         50       8        3     C           I        I                     42.854         0      3,146
POLY-TECH STEAM LA LNAY.INC.               10.06      1.0%    V    UMIC            KS   30-Jan-SI 31-Jan-01          6      36       SS     C           7        2    40.0%            31,40         0      0,222  oca
PO fVRC   lA VICEf I E                     14.0,    6.6%      V     PAOSAJAN    IS    06-d-fl  12-dw-l              1 1      S        1     C           6        1                      1,200         0       too
PORILA1D SO  MFa., SIC.                    14.7%     65.%     F     MsTC           KB   08-J-02  16,dId-S2         103      00       50     C           6        I                     32.122 2,217         3,378
Po%wER METALODfNT.                         11 3       60%     V     MOIC           Ks   01-D.c-So 14-D.-Se          86      l0       s0     C           6        1                      95.896        0      1,02
PFIEMSUS LASOPATOMfErN. SIC,               I 0%      6.0%     F     PIAJTERS       D0  091-Aug-01 16-Au-SI          16       0       0      C           I        I                     17.21          a      1,291
PFUE TAG SDUSTFRES                         17.6%      10%     F    PFAIIIERS        De  IS-May-SI Il-May-SI          0      70       10     C           6        I                     12,700         0      1,314  bcd
PRdlIOSCOPECORPORAIOI                      13.2%     6.6%     F     PtANIERS       OS   21-D.c-f  r nJan-0S        247      l0     (47)    A            7        I                     10.00          0     1208
PIIOEFOODINTERNATIONALCORP.                20.1%     5.0%    V      MBTC           KB   04-S8p-S1 It-Sop-el        2iI    200      200      C           6        1                     68.330    62,685     4,226
P11CSPfIIU     YAMO5UIAFACIUfJIIO          is 1%     4.5%     F     EOUITABLE    KS   20-Doc-So 27-040-30           66       0       0      C           6       1    500%              14.035     14,035    1546 Taiwan
OAJALITROICS EIOIEWSISE                    17.0%      7.1%    F     LPSA           TB    17-Jul-61  24-Jul-          0      17       17     A           1       0                       7,261         0 707
oUAL tCOnotlTMILL$SC                      14.0%      6.0%    V     MUlC           KB   64-Jn-SO  11-Jun-            0    133       132     C           6        I                     1.031                1,004
UIALIYtLASELS. VIC.                        1 2%       66*    F    ASLAinusT    TI   21-J  - S  28-Fob-SI            Is       6       6      C           s       I                      11.Z34         o     2,45   Mci
OULAPO0'IWlIfAMEMlO   f             lEVES  17.0%     S.0%     F    UsIC            Ks   00-sop-SI 14-S*P2-l         II       3       7      C          s        I                       AS3           0      5 63
RA1DSAII1fOODPFoDIJCIS                     1464%      L%      F     PLJaNERS    DO   10-Alay-1 17-May-Sl            43      20       12     C           6       I                        U3           0        40
I"iAGLOBESUFO.                             11.32      8.6%    V     MSIC           KS  2fg.o>;g  02-Jan-08          64      70      70      C           s       I            1I.0%    24.302          0     3,006
nAUOS,t NNfI4NIDo.% 4                                 g o4    V     PAOSANJAN   RE   2I-J e-fl 00-Ju-SO e                    4       4      C           s       I                       1,440         0       142
RAUIEXSIDUSIAL                             is30%      55%     V     SDO            1e   24-Jun-SI 2*6-m-SI          20       3       2      C           7       1                      Itts3          O     1.i
h11JPOLCAd'1OAlI1CO                       I0.7%      6.2%    V     MarC           KB   20-Ja-ag 20-Jan40           25      o0      of      C                   2                      4SO"S          o     4,650 Tu_



Peg. *                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A.m.a I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Pesos)
STATUS                     GUARANTEE
INTEFREST NTE                             TYPE    DATE        DATE   ADDtTIONt MAtNPOWEA            OF      TEnlU           ------- -----    PRO.    PROJ.                 PrFOCUI
_ -                 _ __ _               OF  RtELEASED RELEASED- ACCOUNT   OF  onACE  CREDIT  COIL  DOMESTIC  EXPOrT    PROJ.   MEIIT
IVESTMENT ENTERMOSE              OPN-PFI  SPREAD    tYPE           PFI       PFI    TOPFF       TOlOE   EXISTINC  PROJ. ACTUAL  (12fl13923  LOAN  P1f1oD   RISK   SHORT   SALES            SALES   PIIOFIT  METHOD
_   -  -- - -- - -     -  --   I- - - -- - -  -- - -- -   -- -- -   --- - -   - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----    -   - -   -     - ---     --- - - -     -   -- -   -- - -   -- - -   -- --  -  -- -     -   -- - - -   -- - - - - - - -
nEU8IGTONPRINTINGPF ESS                    17.3%      5.0%A    F    UOTC           Ka as08-mi-SI  0-l-SI             0       7       30     C           7        1                       1,309         8       174
FlEiWoTPAO6GIMNa ONOvELLES                 1.3%       8.0% 6e  F    MUTC           KB   2-ay-SI91 31-May-SI          16      3        3      C          1        2                      ,2.225       too      459 lees
nEitS FUIBal8IG                            %5.1% 7I.%         F    tUZONDOb        DO    O9-Jlo   30-Jul-SO         36      20       20     C           7        2    60.0%             3,600          0      3J8 loes
FccS4NDUSTIES                              36.0%      7.0%    F     MOlC           KS   12-Dec-I9 IS-Dec-S           6       4        4      A          S        I                       1,251         0      29S
no UEDITROH 4  CO ROFATED                  15.3%      4 eV    F     FEbTC          Kb   30-J_n-6S @3-Feb-6B        382      01        0      P          6     0.25                     S.6574          0     2546 leal
N.VEMS LUMBERIHARlDWARELC04JC              19.2%      6e0     F     MU0C           KS   12-Dec-SO  17-Dec-90        26       6        5      C          5        1                      16,416         0     2.00
nROTESOAO&SONIS.h"Ca                        F.5%     30.0%    F     NUOD           DO  25-AMg-S  Il-Sep-SI          70       S        0     c           6        o                      12.190         0 e     41
RO6 000MD8ANUFACTURING                    20.2%      s.0%    F     gOO            TI  01-F.b-91 14-Feb-91          306     6O       60      P          6        a                      I                    23  . t028
KOC8SNHEALTHCAEPrODUC0 TS. IC.             21.2%      6.0%    F     UCPt SB        Tb   13-Feb-91 22-Feb-SI          I      17       17     P           6        1                     60.031          0     2.001  etal
ROcK SuT MANUFACIUIIG                      17.I%      s.0%    F     USTC           Kb   21-AMg-SI 28-AMg-91         IStO    IC       I      C           6        I                       5M23          0     1.024 local
pAOLIA". W-                                 7.9%      8.0%    F     MUTC           KS   20-AM9-9S  20-AM9-91         to     Is       la      C          7        2                      11.S20         0     1.386                         I''
RtOUAftSHO8UEFUF9StIKG                     14.6%      6.0%    f     tUDIls         D    21-Jun-S0  23-Jul-S0        75       0        0      C          7        I                      3,60l3                262 local
RON4ELINUSTRIES                            .11.%      5.8%    F     ODO            TO   03-May-I. 10-Say-S1         65       3       35     C           5        a                     22.014          0     3.7X0
ROSEVEROLOSSITH&aJEWELRYSTO                16.2%      4.0%    F     NlUD           DO   27-Dee-SO  03-Jan-91         12      2        2      C          6        2                      13.624         0     1.560
ROTHEL tU!STtBAL SUPPLY                    10.8%      7.0%    V     S. NIEGROS    DB   20-Dec-83 27-Dec43           38       0        a      A          S      0.6   60.0%              3.305          0      SOS
FRoALCROvStICOHEMICALCOR                   11.3%      5.2%    V     UEIC           KS   07-D e-68  14-Dec-8S        It       4        4     C                s                          6.tnt          0     1.103
NOYAL PLASTtC PEODUCT                      14.0%      6 0%    v     UTC            KB   21-Jun-SO  25-Jau-90        20       5        8      A          8        I                      3.,70          0      403
RStFool)POODS.                             11.3%      62%     F     PLAtIlEnS      De   23-.J-n-9 28-Jan-86         41       5        5     p           1        2            28.0%     4.714          o      377
SAE JSSITESIATIONAL COFP.                  37.9%     4.0%     F      tPt-FSb3      TB    ltt-Jl-S   20-J-SI        46        8        0     C           6        I                     t2.429     as.ISo      320
SAUIN8   0DUSTIftES. IC.                   16.S%     4.6%     F    PLANTERS        DB   13-ApI-92  13-APo-92       308      46       45     C           I        I                     31,702         0      3.152
SAUSONtIODrtvAOOS                          14.0%     96%      V     FEsTC          KS    10-Jul-90  13-Jul-s0       34       0 e            C           6        a                      6501           0     1.436
SAUulEt COUMEFCIAL                         12.9%      5.1%    v     PLAilERns      Db   12-Dec-69 30-Dec-45         93       6        5     C           7        I                      10.176        0       47S
SAtlFELfUMAPBLESSTEEL PROOJIC              I7.9%      7.I%    F     LPSLA         TI    30IM-ul   31-Jul-s9          6       0        0     C           4        8                      2.000          0      24  heoal
SAI4LOfEBIZODUSTITALCO.. VIC.              18.2%      5.0%    F     SWO            Tb   0-Ape-92  13-Apt-52         303     Is       22      C          5      0.6e                     ".160          0     7.833
SAI4TELCOMANUFACTI6I4 CO.                  21.2%      5.0%    F     Sf-FSB         Tr   268an-SI 01-Feb-SI          35      t0       so     C           6        1                      0.140          0     2.112 hel
SCANiAlRAPSI' SIC.                         17.9%      6.1%    F     PLANTERS       DO  27-May-91 31-Say-SI          50    l3          6     C           8        1                     25.050         0      s.399
SEACOuO DUn SIAL CORP.                     17.9%      4.8%    F     FEBTC          KS    Cl-Jul-SI 01 o I-1        146 5     0             1P        0.16        0                     26.666      8.337     1.073
SEAGEUISS8ELLSIC                           10.1%      8.3%    v     UBTC           KS   26-4Jn-S9 2f-Jan-S                   7       7      C           6        I                          a      4.726      6ss
SEA-CHESt PoarfEss       ; 0.              17.0%      4.6%    F     PLAtiJERS      DO   0-Jn-SI  14-Jn-S1          230      70       40     C           7        1                     11.972         0      2.023
SELECTIvE ltOUER EsPoRF                    14.0%      5.0%    v     fCBC           KS   26-Dee-90 26-De-N0          70      77       80     A           5        1                     163363     44,700     1.241 Ablias
SEVILLACANLEFACIOW. NC.                    31.1%     4.0%     F     PMAETERfS      DB   13-Sep-90 20-Sep-S0        326    140       60      C           7        1                     19,993         a     2.215
SEVWUASIEnAPPAEL PIRC                      1.54%      7.0%    F     PLANTEnS       DO   26-Jun-so  03-J-SO          37       0        0     A           a        I                          0      6.470      403
SICOI8ENTEWORSES                           19.1%      6.0%    V     PLAtTERS       De   IS-Dec-SO  18-DCeo-Sl       46      12      1"I)    C           7        2            1486%     8.855         0       737
SASULAAI4OUSIf8ES                          161.%      7.0%    F     PLANIEfS       DO   14-jn-S0 21-J-90           130      t0      l      C           7        2                      9.106      1,242     1,540
SUCO84CRCTEPAOODUCTS&STEELIA               14.0%      6.0%    F     U0TC           KS  24-May-U0 20-uSy-90           a       3        3     C           6        I                      1.443         0       ISO
SOO USMJA FACIURG COtP.                    107l%      6O.3%   F     UBTC           Kr   06-D.e-86 07-Dec-56        ISO      30       30     C           7        2    22.0%            20.30s         0     2.650 hcal
SOLAehRPLASItcCOAProM30                    135.5%     6.0%    F    BDM             TB   17-Sep-SO 24-Sep-So        130      10       to     P                                          45.300         0     3.49'
souitIIPACIFICEOaUWENTCORP.                16.1%      8.5%    F     9o0            TO   14-A5-SI 21-AMg-91          94       3       16     C           6        e                     24.163         0     3.732
SOUTIEIN PHIL S. RUBBERUFO. ilD.           1.2%       66%     F     14ttU          DB   27-Dec-SO  03-Jan-91         8       0        p     C           4        2                      3.200         0       631
SO SFOOCPRODUCTS                           21.2%      8.0%    F     MtTC           KS   19-Feb-SI 26-Feb-S1         34       8        5     C           s        1I 10 9941                           a      H.32
SPEFDWAY FABRCAITORACO..  C.               14.8%      60%     v     FEBFC          KM   21-Ju-S0O  20-Jn-SO         45      t0       10     C           S        I                      03.234        a     1.230 heal
SPLASNCOSUEfICS                            160%       60%     v    UOTC            KS   00-Jan-SI  16-Jan-SI        124     16       to     C           s        I                     68.476         0     7.253
506CO1ICIME EP HDS.                       of1%       6.3%    v     PCIB           Ka   109-De66 24-De-s eS          3       *        0     P           s        I                     11:2.1         0     204



Fag. ISA AWm   I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounts In Million Pesos)
STATUS                     GUAARATEE
INTEREST FIATE                             TYPE    DATE       DATE   ADDITIONIAL MANPovEn           OF      TEAM              *-             PpOpJ PfOJ                     pOCUR
-- _-_-- - -                                  OF   nELEASED RELEASED ----            -             ACCOUNT   OF   GaRCE  CREDIT  CoLL  DOMESTIC  EXPOrtT   PROJ.  UMO
NESTMENT ENTEFWSE                 OP0-Pff   SPFEA     TYPE         PFI       PFF     TOPFI    TOIE   EXISING  PnOJ. ACTUAL  (12131112)  LOAN  PEWOD   RISK  sRionT   SALES                 SALES    PFXOFIT  METIIOD
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-   -- -- -    -  _-_-.-_ ---   --- ---   ---- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - ----   - - -   - - --   - - - --  - - -  - - - -  - - --     ------   ---- ---   ------ -  -     -- -- -   --- ---
SUARE EEMSUANUFACTURNO                    1719*      71*    F      PLANTERS       OB  24-May.01 31-May-SI           0      32       65     A           6        1            196*       .130          0 e9
SI AOJuARAJsIOPAJDNMARFKETIG               11.5       6.3*    F     PLANTEfS       03    12-J-00  1-Ju1-So        200      s0       26      A          7        1                      18.541         0     4,901
SIANZA KIIWEAII VIC.                       118        6 S0%   V     MOTC           KS   Il-Dec-si  18-Dec-60        126   1.000    1.000     A          s        1                          0     49152      5.640
SlAICO PLASPOTMFG. CORP.                   12.5*     se*    F       PLANTEFR       Oa   10-4aS91 II-Jun-OS          116     40    (III)      A          7        1                      110671         o       G0
STAnEx MANUFACTURING COn.                  18.0%      6.0*    v     MIIc           KS   I l-Dec-So  I-ODe-90        26       7        7      C          6        I                      s216          0     1. 78
TEFANOFOOTWEARCOFPOATION                  14 0        .6.%   V     FEB1C          Ks   1o-May-Ic ti-May-go         Uti     S0       to      C          3        I                      3.360          0     3u6s5 loca)
ST. JOSEPHPLASTICRAFFT                     IS.S       6.0%    F     MBTC           Ke    Il-hi-SO  1o-J-N I                  2        2      C          6        I                       2.309         0       3ss
SUNPRDEEFOOOINC                            IS6%       1.0*    F    uaTc            KB  24-May-fl 31-May-So         366      21       21     c           7        2                     70,654          0     *.521
SUPERCPAFTU1UST9ES                         21.2*      65%     F     goo            TO   04-Feb-Il Il-Feb-91          42      3        0      C          6        0                       3220          0       219
SUPEFMCYXESVSTEMCo. WC.                    17.%         0%    F      UBTC          KB   27-Me-SI 11-Sep-01         i1S      Is       IS      C          1        t                     S2.270                4.030 
SYNDICATEGDARMENTS MFG.. INC.               1.S%      4.6%    F     EOuITABLE    KB  1I-Sap-So 26-S p-e0             0    948       941     C           1        2    60.0%                 0     66.12     4)50
TAIGN2SAWUtLL. C. 1.N%                               LO0     F     MOTC           KB   064a-ns   20-Jun-90        IS&       1       Is     C           1        1                     29.528          0     3.1o0
TABEL MOTOFMUARuOE UA0ALLANO               15.*       6.0%    F    BO1L0 FM        PB  02-Uay-SI 00-May-SI          12      13       13     C          to        0                      2.740          0       414 local
TACTICS aARPENTS                           17.%      6.0%    F     ASIATRUST    TB    OS-M-Il  1-Jul-SI             29      0        0     C           6      0.1                      10.054         0       S4
TAR"MAEUWIDEFlRYSERVICECENTER              I.61       3.0*    v     EOLJITASE    KB   06-Ape-92 07-Ape-92            12      4        4      C          8        1                      0.720          0     26ee
TAN. TEIESITA                              14.0%     6.0*    V      PAOSAIIJAN    FIB  064-n-o  13-Jwn-s0           17      14        0     C           S        I                        8oo         0        to0
T Al EXCLUSIVES NC.                        17.9*      80%     F     ALLIED         KS   14-May-91 14-May-01         26       4       ,4     C           7      0.5                     2J047           0      40s local
TEDDY'S aAIUEN  SERVICES                  15.1*     s.0%     F     MUTC           KS   17-SaP-So 24-Sep-90        120      20       20     P                                           5,672          0      41a
IEOOOeAGARMEIIJTS MEG                      I1.3      62%      F     PLANTERS       DO   25-an-8s  26-Jan-85         12       0        0     C           7        2            250%      1.517         0       21
TESSD. CA  IALaOFASHIIONSHOP               11.3%      6.2*    v     MITC           KS   10-Jn-69 17-Jan-05          33      I6       IS     C           S        1            230%      2.517         o       343
TIIEIE  EKATI*EENMF   lN.hC.               17.0%      1.6%    F     MUBC           KB   t2-Aag-01 12-Ag-91           0      S7       51     C           1        1                      7s74          0       760
TNREE EPAPERPFODS.                         14.0*      8.0%    v     MIIC           KB  26-May-90 2f-May-So          66      10       to     C           s        1                      *.455         0      1.2JS
TIOIMOI WDSIUJTF6ES. INC.                  11.5*      1.1s    F     PLANTERS       DB   33-Sap-So  20-Sep-so       630    120        70     C           7        I1tn                                 0      6.e91
TIONOSONS40USTIFES.                        11.3      4.764    F     PLANTERS       DO   20-Dec-80 27-Dec-86        137       6      93      C           6        1                     32.6u2         0      3.331 local
TOM  .ESCOTAuMA5IESuJPPLY                  17.9%      8.0*    F     MITC           KB   Il-Sep-91 11-SeP-SI         65      21      20      C           6                              15.10S         0     2.324
TOAYWIEFINATNAL.b INC                      lS9%      3.0*    v      saIDEANK    KS   23-Jan-Sl 23-Jan-91            So      10       IS     P           7       2                       Z.654      1.804     1.3?7 local
TORATEXCOFWOI ATIOK                        11.9%      1.0%    F     CIOIL4ABK      KS  0-Mg-SI 14-MB-S1            So      27       27     C           s        1                     795332        49     4.603
TRPf  TB "ESENTEIRIeSE                     17.9%     40%      F     CIOUABAA(   KB   05-Auv-SI 55-Aug-91             2      10       6      C           a        Inot ope.             3.700         0       367 Cke.. J.
TRANIIPNTCOFWOATIO                         16.6%     4.0%     F     PLAIIERS       OB    I3Jl-So  20-l-So          104      S90    02      C           7       0                      12.510         0      1.004
I .Nsfl4bTCOWORAl1IN                       13.2*     4.0*    F      PLANTERS       DB   21Jan-91  26-Jan-SI        216    109      It4      C           1       0                      21.049         0     37.1
TFITECUMFG.hOIND. IN                       le 7*     s1%      F     DIP            SB   10-Jan-SI 26-Jan-ug          0      so      47      C           6      0.6                         0     22.941     2.191  mbm_od
TRITON SHPrPiUGOW.                         14.0%     7.5%     v     MiIEMOCK   KB   26-Sn-go  IS-J-0S               21       0       I      C          s        2    60.0%              9.469         0     1.00  local
TRIUMPH PASTIC COFrATIoTN                  15.1%     4.0*    F      PLATERS        De   Il-Sap-So 06-Sep-So        364    266      211      C           1       1                     42,342          0     6.360
1RIFPI PIRODUCISTLLY OAtA                  11S.%     So%      F     MBIC           KB   21-Jan-So 28-un-So          20       3       3      C                  1                      10459          0       904
T9IOPICAL9SLODFIEFMUNGCOFP.                169*      4.5%     F     PLANTEfRS      DB   00-Api-t2 10-Api-92         SO     IS       I    C                  1   I                     26.670          0     4.6s3
TUOEMA(EASPINULPPES                        11.3%      12*    v       UB1C          Ks   36-JAn-61 30-Jan-66         20      S        6      C          6        I                      3.229          0      266
UNSOI9 MACISlE wFOtS. M4.                 179%      s.0o     F     MOTC           Ks   13-May-01 20-May-91         is       a       s      C                   2                      4.073          0       S6W
UINIED ASIAV OEAVINGATFMUIMGF              1.2%       4.3%    F      LANTERS       DB   22-Jan-SI 2n-an-SI         n7      olS      $I      C           I                              1.6112        0     4.053
tN6I ED VINY   DcO MIoCN                   013        16%     F     PLATERS        De    12-9-S1  19        IS-Jl-Il  II    60      45      C           1       2                     46.069          0     1.631
UlTY 1fNIOJGPIHILAut.                      11.%       63%*    v     UBTC           KS   12-DOn-S  19-Deu45         120      10      lo      C     5             I    10.0%            14.1U           0     4.t61
UWAIAT UFG.AND TRAIS                        5.6*      0.0%    F     S3D            TI   05-J-So 12-Awg-            1US      10      1       C           7       *                     24.80           S     4.419
UUIWIOE ME-mlATaf a UFG. COw.              1i         2  .0%  V     SOLIDOAM       KS   IS-Jan-OS  16-Ja-90         42      26      23      C           1       2                      2.260          0     2.314 Telwa
tWRAOE f9fsnIcEs                           1o0%       3.0%    V     PE4COU         KB   19-Dec-88 23-Dec.60        It0      3s     2P       C           7       2                      it Us          0     ". 4-



Pago A5*O  I
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038
(Amounis In Mlillon Pesos)
STATUS                    GUAPAATEE
ITEFREST RATE                             TYPE    DAlE       DATE   ADUTIONAL MANPOYWER           OF      TEfU                ------   -     PW.    PrKtO.              PAOCU
_      _  _--                                OF  RELEAMED RELEASED ------  -             --    ACCOUNT   OF   GACE  CREDIT  COLL. DOMESTIC  EXPorT    P1OJ.   MENr
WESTMENT ENThE,SE               DPS-PFI  SPFEAD    TYPE          PFI       PFI    TO PFI    TOIE   EXISTING  PrIJ. ACTUAL  tl2021  LOAtN  PEmoD   nSK  sWORT   SALES    SALES   PROFIT  METHIOD
_                      -            ------ ---                                .- -- --  ----                                                                                           _ -           _ _ _ _ _ _   - -
VAS&SON  tNC.                             0.0% .  413%    F        PLANTES      DE  "-3Me-9I 05-Je.-91           32      II      uI      C          7        1                     26.300         0      f40
VEfLPMTCORPORATION                        4-50      4.0%A    F    PLANRIFFS    De  lI-Sp  eO Is-.p- e            352    201      211      C          I        I                    01 1o0          0     4.74
V3CFOR SItRIFACTORY                       171.%      0.0%    F      IABTC        KS  13-Mel-I 20-UM-091           13      2        3      C          6        1                     11.711         0     1.02
VICTOOS DOUALITY PACKAaOw4  CO.           16.2%     2.0%    F       Pt LC        No   23-hM-SI 23-la-Il            *    164      104      c          s       a                        713         a        02 TmIm
vyiAnRO MACamIE  lOP. 11.0                        % I        V    hUDO            06   1-Jueil00 21-Jue-SO         9      a        a      C          3        0                       350          0      120
v%aE1ALUZ METAL PRODUCTS                  31.%       e.0%    F P   UUiC           Kg    0-J-O e0-SO               14       2       2      C          I        I                     5.317          0      042
wALLEX  DSTmFALCOPe.                      31.0%      0.0%    V     MUTC           KS   Il-Sep-S1 17-Oct-00        IS       S       a      C          S        I                     3332S          0     3h170
wELLAR4nDussFALCOfP.                      I?OI%      6e0     F     PLANTERS  Ot   23-May-S1 30-Mel-Il            125    321       (3)    C           1        2                       e00.60       0     3.400
WELLPACK  11CORORATED                     10.0%      10%     V    ALLIED          KS   02-is-SB  004 -he-e        30      10      2t      C          S      0.6                      1.310         0       71  Ona.y4
wESTERt4FANCS. PHILWPINES                 14.0%      0.0%    v    ALLIED         KS   2s-jua-90 05-lea-OS        140      20      20      C          7      o.S                    40.1S2          0    4.200 Taiwnm
vtlN Em1EtV6SES                           30.0%      68%     F    MUTC           KS   20-hem-S0  2z--9 e           3      a        0      C                    1                  25,330         0      1.944
vWlNEX V4Y LPFODOUCTS COFI.               IS.3%      S.0%    F    PLANTERS       DO  00-Mel-I 16-Mel-St         252    143       23      C          7        1                    27.610         o    4.825
WUPLASTIC STRIES                           411%      5.4%    F    OcO.            TO I  2-Sp-St  18-ISp-tI        14      a       10      C          S        0                     30432          a      is7
woLPER       ltANiDCpAFTMFP.              11.3%      00%     F    M4rc           KG   21-Apa-S2 08-May-32        e0       7        7     c           1       2                      10.S35        0      1.S73
wolUERTEX F"SS1O. VICFAWFQ                17.3%     4.0%    F    PLANTERS    OR   01-"-Si  12-JUl-31             100    25        2S      P                                                                7 I  322M3  0  6.34
O40NCvY    Mila                           11.10     0.19s    F    PLAHFERS       DO  31-0.1-31 10-Ot-01          43      a        0      P          0        I                    3o.0o3         0     1.791 TIwa
WODLAM1     A PRODUCTSPHl&S               31.1%     0.0%     F     451C          KS   011-Ju-10 13-.h-So          00      6        S     C           6        I                     11.322        0      1.146
VWORD SEASON FULVITUE INC.                19.2%      00%     F    RCEC           KS   03-DeC-00 03-DeC-30        200      0        0      P          I       0                          0      2.500      253
YAYANG'SFOOOPROOICTlS                     10.2%     6.0      F    PtANrERS       DO   20-Dec-S0  02-Jm-91         to      0        0      P          3 _                            0.41          0      1.1S
40                                                                            SLIM0  12306   11.037                              00.101   t.24e  7,US.121  1,120.120   84S.013
VAMAKE- 32                                              III     31      27              S0.      1.16    3.02%   0.13%
FIXED      23                AVE. IELEASM  PERIOD
AVE RAE RAtE:
,FI - E        6.27 L Tr Cida d4e
IOL-ff. -    1t01%
PfU4E -       31.11%                                                           -



Page I                                                                                                                                                                                  Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-PHil
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amounl In Po000o000)
PRELOAN  PRELOAN    TOTAL          TOTAL                                        SALES                   EXPORT                 PROFIT
ASSET    OWNER'S  PROJECT    LOAN             IGLF       PFI   BORRfOWER                               -  ------
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE               SIZE      EQUITY      COST    GRANTED   SHARE    SHARE    EOUITY   PROJECTED   ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL
_   _ _  _ _   _   _ _ _  _        ___~~~ --- --  ---                        .-  -          ..           - ---              -          -- - __  _ ---   -  ---   -- - -- - ___  -  -  - _ -_
13 P M. ENTERPRISES                           1.267     1,105         838        soo 5      450        so        338        1.982       2.060                               422        483
24 K PRINTING CO.. INC.                       1,283       982         453        350        315        35         103       4.058       3.652          0          0         271        263
ABET AGUIRRE SHOE FACTORY                     1.815      1,906      2.448      2.000       1,800      200         448       6.387       4.975          0          0         779        682
ACCURATE PRINTING INCORPORATED               3.559      2.7U4       2.130       1,700     1.700         0         436       6.563       5.146                               627        564
ADD RESEARCH PRODUCTS. INC.                  13.533     10,536      3.137      2,800      2,520       280         337      34,118      35.823                             4.843      5.085
AGL PLASTI-PRINT INDUSTRY                    7.655      7,178        1.200     I.000        900       100         200       9.226       8.303                               453        439
ALBERT COUMERCIAUALBERTO GALANG              2.097       1.797       1.58t     1.200      1.080       120        38d        5.456       6.001                               439        475
ALEXANDERS WEAR                              4.113      3,82t       15.544     12.000    10.000     2.000       3.544      27,115      32.538          0          0        1.951      1.873 
ALFA-TECH. CHEMICAL & MFG. CORP.             3.453      2,863       4.367      4,000      3,600       400        367       14.864      13.002          a          0        1.aoo     1.568
ALPHA FEED MILLS. INC.                        6.196     2,780       8.787      6.000      2.000         0       4.767      40,249      36.at1          0          0       2.377      1.687
ALPHA LUMBER & CONSTRUCTION SUPPL            3.045      2.960       3.180      3.000      2.700       300         180       4,217       4.309          0          0         354        314
ALPINE INTERNATIONAL EXPORTS. INC.           7.833      7,000       t,601      5.000      4.500       s00       1.601          0                  24.067     24.008       1.765      1.054
ALUCAST INTERNATIONAL MFG. INC.              S.500      5,500       12.327    10,000      9,000     1.000,      2.367      17,500      18.012          0          0       2.036      2.769
AU ENTERPRISESIROLANDO L. ALMAZON            2,724       1.746       1.084       750        675        7s        334        4.856       a.886                             1.141      1.097
AMITY MANUFACTURING                          12.422     6,343       4,228      3.500      3.150       350        728       15,278       7.895          0                  2.042      1,024
ARCA. YOLANOA   *                              lS        185         175        150        135        IS         25        1,400       1.500          0          0         245        225
ASIAN METALS                                  1.079      1.079       3.475      1.500     1.350       150       1,975       1.750       1,810          0          0         220        240
ASPENPAPERPROOUCTSCORP.                      19.350     10.106      39,182    25.000     20.000     5,000      14,132      45.204      54.245          0          0       9.48      9,454
BALINGIT HOME FURNISHING                      6.977      7.037      a.167      4.000      3.600       400       2,1e7      21.243      18.779          0          0       2.905        926
BASE CORPORATION                              5.318      3,452       6.223     5.000      4.500       So0       1.223       4,320       3.88u          0          0       4.716      4.575
BELT GAS AIR PRODS.                           9.953      7.093        903        700        700         0         203      28,894      15.622          0          0       2.592      1,226
BENSAN INDUSTPIES.INC.                       19.674     IS.2s9      12.1tl    10.000      9.000     t,ooo       2,111      33.749      30.180                             6.637      5.300
BICOLBRANDSINTERNATIONAL.INC.                 4.320      1.709        900        800        720        80        100        2.620       2.515       1.375      1.352        205        213
BLAU-MAGIC.INC.                               8.000      3.00o      11,468     8,000      7.200       800       3.488       8,775       *.604          0          0       1.715      1.991
BRUTUS FOOD SYSTEM INC                        5.831      3.022       1.238       780        700        t0        458       18.672      13.935          0          0       1.385        954
CASOUAREGARI4ENTS                             5.122      3.587       1.356     1.000        900      t00         85t        7.910      11.686                               357      1.651
CARBONLESSPAPER. INC. ICPI)                  10.941     9.578       9,430      7.000      6.300      700        2,430      20,928     21.663                              2.535      2,431
CARSWOOD ENTERPRISES                          4.100      1.305      3.341      1.800      1,620       to0       1.541      15,097       1.826                             2.000        107
CASENAS,JOSEMA. CYRIUREINAMARIE                626        608         627        600        450        50        127        2,060       1.348          0          0         456       325
CCC FOOD PRODUCTS                              951        832         300        250       225        25          50       4,826       3.112           0         0         584        464
CEBUCONTINENTAL PRINTERS                      7.300     7.257       3.9D3      2.000      1.800      200        1,993     20.646      20.52B           0          0       1.810      1.804
CENTURY WORLWIDE EXPORT                       4.773     3.846       4.175      3.500      3.000      So0         675       8.902       8.692           0         0         397        600
CEREALFOOOCORPORATION                        12.884     3.000      12.000      9.000      8.100      900        3,000     34,740      36.640           0         0        4.211     6.534
CHARNICEINTERNATIONALSALES                     749        473        1.469     1.115      1.000      1l5         354       2.256       1.984       4.601      4.552        238        201
CHELOIL LIGHTERAGE CORP.                    19.169     10.175      13.714    11.000    --1900      1.100       2,714     34,475      33.096           a         0        2.185     2,272
.'  .   .I'f   ._A ..       r-   l  !| fl   thA nn  17  Ir.t'll,  Pi knn   n             nr.



PaOg 2                                                                                                                                                                                         Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDEn LOAN 3038-PI 11
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amount In P 000o000)
PRELOAN   PRELOAN    TOTAL          TOTAL                                          SALES                   EXPORT                  PROFIT
ASSET  OWNER'S PROJECT   LOAN   IGLF    PFI  BORROWER                                     -------  _----- -                       _.
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE                SIZE      EOUITY       COST    GRANTED   SHARE    SHARE    EQUITY   PROJECTED   ACTUAL   PROJECTED  ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL
-   -   -   -   ------   --------- -   ----------   -  - ---    --  -   ---   -- --  __ --   -- - - -
CLARSON ENTERPRISES. INC.                     18.711      4.015        2.550      2,000       1.800      200          550      28.200       17,595      17,250     20,548        4.289      3246
CLEVELAND TEXTILE MILLS                            0      15.400      19.500     10,000      10,000         0       9.600      57.522       37,427           0          0        1.336      2.941
COVER A PAGES CORP.                            4,767       2.345       1.100        500        450       5           600       8,480        8.208           0          0         721          58
CRISLI ENTERPRISEICAISTE                       1.655        658          383        335        300        35           48         305         360        7.008      0,615         180         273
CRUZANT ENGINEERING                            2.361      2.152        1.250        Do0        810        90          350       s.0o0        4,024           0          0         573         539
D A N CORPORATION                                750        250        1.264      1,000        900       100          264       5,280        5,808           0          0         403         748
DARAGAHOUSEOFFINEHANDICRAFTS                   1.629        723        2.200      1,845       1,660      185         356        9.622        9.237           0          0         142         148
DAVAO UNITED ENGINEERING & EOPT.               7.997      3.300        3,750      3,000      2,700       300          750       7,521        7.521           0          0         536         927
DECOMACHINESSHOPINC                            7.397       9,389       1,252        800        720        8o          452       7.673        7,173           0          0         597         361
OKC INDUSTRIAL CORP                           12,270       6.092       9,500      8.000      2.000         0        7,500      10.413       10,205           0          0         228        221
DRAGON KNIGHT INDUSTRIAL PHILS.               18.363      12487      14.458      8,000      7.200       800        6.458      46s69B       65.374           0          0        6.811      8,173
DUMAGO ST. PETER PRESS                         1.905       1.738         soo        400        360        40          100       4.362        3,796           0          0         775         102
D. MENDOZA WOODWORKS& SASH FACTO               3.011      2.841        1,920      1.000        900       100          920      13.135       18.178           0          0        1,690      1,822
E & N GUERRERO RATTANCRAFT IND.                3,992      3,252         836         650        585        65          186       5,037        5.112           0          0         857        B30
EBC MERCHANDISING/EDUARDO LAW                  6.469      3,371        3.089      2,500      2.250       250          589       6.171        5.199           0          0        1,005      1,090
EDDIE ACOJEDO MARBLE ENTERPRISES               2.439      2,439         775         500        450        50         275        6.862        7.548           0          0         318        328
EJ GOMEZ CONCRETE PRODUCTS                  .   1.15       1,715       1,991      1,500       1,350      1SO          491       3.608        3.409           0          0         448        392
ELPA ROOUE MACHINE SltOP                       4.258       3.872       4,598      2.500       2.250      250        2.098       4.764        49D34           0          0        1.236      1.353
ELYSSEMOTORS                                   6.546.      5,599       1,887      1,500       1,350       150         387      38.750       21.312           0          0        5.647        996
ENLIST EXPORTS                                  1.565       931          250        200        180        20           50        1.282       1.231       1,760      1.780          110        114
ESP PRINTERS INC.                              6,686       5.527       3,000      2,600      2.250       250          600       7,000        7,000           0          0         700       1,000
EUROCOOL CRAFT INDUSTRIES                      6.712      5.524        5,584      4,000      3.600       400        1.584      46.087       13.841           0          0        1,906        103
EVER AlIPLE TEXTILE MFG. CORP.                 6.682       5.000       3,950      3.000      2.700       300          D50       8,765        8,895           0          0        1.277      1.308
EXCELLENCE PACKAGING CORP.                     9.791      4.841        4,000      3,000      2,700       300        1.000      24.497      23,517            0          0        1,002      1.042
FAIRLADYMANUFACTURING                            180        151        1.057        800        720        So        . 257         737         708            0          0          18          19
FELTON COMMERCIAL & IND. CORP.                18.692     23.827       25.016     20,000     18.000      2.000       5.016     114.188     115,016            0          0       7.784       7,528
FERRARI GARMENTSICIRILO RAOTRAOT               2.408      2.408        1,050        850        765        85          200       7,409        8,150           0          0         387        399
FLORA GENERIC VENTURES                        11.228      3.772        2,500      1,600       1.620       180         700      11.809       10.506      22,757     15.634       15.944     (4.528)
FLORANTE GARMENTS                             19.476      10,628       5,250      3,000      2.700       300        2.260      57.118      68,542           0           0       5,264       5.053
G & G BISLIG PRINTERS                          4.815      6.101         964         600        540        60         364       15,311       14.774          0           0       2,270       2.347
G & J INDUSTRIES                               4.134      3.361         750         500        450        So         250       56185        6.222           0                     570        547
GALLERIACPAFTS. INC.                           9.211      2,467        1,150        850        765        85         300       17.002       16.408          0                     640        668
GENESIS MAARKETING                             1,685       1,608       3.298      1,945      1.750       195        1,353       4,396       2.615           0                     458        125
GOLOPACKAGINGAMFG.CORP.                       19.885      8.250       14.000     14,000     14,000         a           0      176,211     169.163                               4,30s      4,477
HANFORD PHILIPPINES. INC.                     17,32     11.158        5.046      4.000      3.600       400        1.046      38.405      46,000           0          0        3.333      3.200
, _ ___ .__r, ***'                    *'tfl'      ,r.*        ..n... ... :          enn r.n n  ,.f  0      Cr    {     . .  ..



Page*                                                                                                                                                                                      Anmx 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3036-PHI
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Ajuomt hI Po000000
PRELOAN   PRELOAN    TOTAL         TOTAL                                        SALES                   EXPORT                PROFIT
ASSET    OWNER'S  PROJECT    LOAN             IGLF       PFI BORRWER 
NVESTMENT ENTERPRISE                SIZE      EQUITY      COST    GRANTED   SHARE    SHARE    EQUITY   PROJECTED   ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL
IDEAL PRINTERS CO                            9.1cs      7.705       2.100        600        720        so       1.300      15.96U      22.642          0          0       3.497      3.357
INCIONG uACASAET TRADING CORP.                1.866      1.113      3.044      1.200      1.0e0       120       1.844       4.590       4.590          0          0         ISO        ISO
INTERNATINAL GENERAL AUTO PARTS                  0      5.000      30.000     15.000     13.500     1.500      15.000      27.650       6.767          a          0       3.702      (3.324)
IRWIN MOTORS                                  t.97        a"          715        500        450        s0         265       7.600       4.000          0          0         334        440
ISAROG PITINT INC.                            1.34      1.343      2.01u       1.00        900      0oo        1.012       6.36        7.u42          0          0       2.42       2t354
JA GALITA ENTERPFRSES                         6.057      5.73       2.272       1.000        oo       100       1.272       3.503      10.1i2          0          0         so0        4"
JBL CHEIEW INC                                *.,e6      4.750      4.000     z2.so       2.250       250       1.1i0     1u.500       22.200          0          0       2.620      2.521
JOHN TERNCEU ANUFACTURING                    11.417     *.es4       7.379      6.500 e     .50 6        0so       970      11.148      12.139          0          0         314        773
JON RODNEY GARMENTS                          12.33      13.492     13.111     10.000      9.000     1.000       3.111      34.335      33.020          0          0       5.610      4.726
JONASINTERNATIONALPPHIL                      19.333      4.621       1.400     1.000        900       100         400      11.361      79.173      65.144         0        1.019       978
JO4ERSRTWIWARODO SY                           3.Xs       2.722      L.472      2.e00      1.0 oe      pe         472        3.785       0.301          0          0        1.010      1.290
JORDACHE HATIVE CRAFT PHILIPPINES            10.975     9.221       4.423      3.19s0     3.500       310        s3        40.016      17.280          0          0       1.S75        521
JP'S GARMENTS                                 1.157      1.157      2.051      1.000        300       100       1.061       7.920       6,000          0          0         577        37S
JUN HALILJFASIONHOUSE                        12.213     14.639      2.410       1.320     1.729       112        4w0       11.752      14.102          0          0       2.306      2.216
KARIMADON TRADIN                              3.431     2.941       13.500    11.000       .900     1.100       2.0so      15.224      14.615          0          0        1.280     1.331
KEESHIA TOY INDUSTRIES                       4.330      3.427       2.600      1.450      1.305       145       1.150       7.974       6.234          0          0       1.426      1,626
KI,GU ASTER INDUSTRIES                        1.513     4.150       4.163      3.000      2.700       300       1,166      10.963      11.563          0          o          94      1.253
KIO PRINTERS                                  1.705      1.630        5S5        400        360        40         150       3.932       1.235          0          0         345        150
KINJOIN IDUSTRUAt CORP.                      13.427     s.330      13.115     12.000     10.000     2.000       1.115      25.329      35.461          0          0       2.496      2.995
LADY BACK ENTERPRISES                        2.65       5.23e       5.693      4.000      3.600      400        1.993       6.9u       3.40e           0          0       1.205      1.552
LAVINA. JUANITOILEONTNA                      4.504      2.s00       3.26       1.600      1.357      243        2.226       8.430      7.709           0          0         277        257
LIRAN. NORBERTO                                210        210         125        100        90        Iq          25         so0         350           0                    150        100
LOTUSEMBROIDERY                              2.600      1.014       2.372      1.o00      1.620      ISo         672       2.713         76S           a          o         ass         39
L. DAVIS LEATHERCRAFT                        3.095      2.646       2.764      2.t00      1.600      200         714       3.938       3.772           0          0        522        466
MASTER IRON WORKS & CONSTRUCTION             10.956     3.370      10.000      4.000      7.200      600       2.000      55.000      47.620           0          o       4.275       275
UAWELLCHEUtCALCORP.                          54163      3.S46       1.906      1.000       900       100         906      14.465      12.986           0          0       1.203      1.322
UEDICALGENERICLABORATORY                     1.741      1.526       5.500      4.500      4.050      460       1.000       1.922         250           0         0         412        211
MEGAPACKCONTAINERCORP.                       4.000      4.000      20.700      6.200      5.5u0      620      14.500      82.300      17.290           0         0       12.143      1.093
LERMAD MULTI-PRODUCT                        12.557      9.871       *.520      6.000      7.200      300         520      23.865      40.411           0         0        3.362     4.034
IUIL-ORO UANUFACTURING                      10.620      4.373       4.900      4.000      3.600      400         900      29.160     3u.247           0          0        2.t71     2.715
MIHDANAO EDITORIAL & PRINTING                6.262      4.100       1.200       3s6        796        a          316       4.140       4.000          0          a         240        660
USUACHINERY&UMETALFABRICATION                3.705      1.275       3.177      2.t00      2.t00        0         377       6.250      12.020          0          0         sio        714
UULTI FoRMs coRPORATION                      12.633     6.127      20.000     14,000      5.400      6o0      14.000      17.U42      19.000       8.220      5.376      2.000       1.000
UYRA INDUSTRIES PHILIPPINES                  1.324      1.300       5.000      4.500      4.050      450         so0           0                   5.670      3.636        300        193
NAPALA. OIIAPARTE                           110 e      9.131       3.600      3.000      2.700      300         600      12.353       6.067          0          a        1.412      1.075



,age 4                                                                                                                                                                                        Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN ANIO GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-Plil
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Antounl In Po000o000)
PRELOAN   PRELOAN    TOTAL           TOTAL                                         SALES                    EXPORT                 PROFIT
ASSET    OWNER-S  PROJECT           LOAII      IGLF        PFI   BORROWER
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE                SIZE       EQUITY       COST    GRANTED   SHARE    SHARE    EOUITY   PROJECTED   ACTUAL   PROJECTED  ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL
_ . .___  _................... ___-     ___-  . -    -------                                                                                                           -   ------   --  -___ ______-
NEPCOPRINTHAUS                                 1.391       1.02a         412        350        315        35           62       3.238        2.241           0          0         349         264
NISSIN MANUFACTURINGCORP.                     17.210      14.000      10,132      3.925      3,533       393        6.207      25.141       25.034           0          0        3,555      3,443
NUNAG.OIOSOADOIERLINDA                         5,600      5.600        3.469      1,300       1.170      130        2,189      12,000       12,240           0          0        1.164      1.234
PACIFICCON71NENTALCOMPANY. INC.               19.891      11.237      11.555     10.000       9.000     1.000       1.555      36.065       38.786           0          0        3.431      3.637
PERLA-SRTW                                     1.531       1.0'        1.095        900        900         a          195       4.230        4.315           0          0         as8         909
PHILEXSON INTERNATIONAL                        2.312       1.250       8.925      1,700       1.530       170       5.225      42,544       51.053           0          0        2.385      2.290
PHILIPPINECHEMASTEELIND.. INC.                13.114       2.000       9,582      8.000      5.400       600        3.5*2      29.036       21.772           0          0        4.410      4.063
PHILIPPINEINDOCOILCORP.                       15.419      10.000      48,171     20.000      18.000     2.000      28.171      70.000       14.000           0          0        2.000         73
PHILIPPINE RUSTPROOFING. INC.                 14.687      14.220       1,.00      1.500       1.500        0         300       15,020       14,850           a          0        1.195       861             on
PHILIPPINE WOOLEN SPINNING CORP.               7.397       5.753      16.335      0,035      8.132       903        7,300      34.590       13,300      40.000     38.500        2.647       253
PHILSTONEINDUSTRIALaMFG.CORP.                  8.149       6.551       2.241      1.500       1.350       ISO         741      18.,18       19,194           0                   3.026      3.208
PHOENIX PRESS. INC.                           13.318       1.502       3,468      2.000       1.600      200        1.468      20.948       21.365           0                   1.039      1.101
PKSSHIPPINGGCO.. INC.                         17.987       9.308       8,113      2.900      2.010       290        5.213      34,424       23,741           0          0        2.711      1.264
POLYMAS7ERINDUSTRIALCORP.                     13.723        900        7.441      5.000      4.500       500        2,441      42.894       43.116           0          0       3.145       4.106
POLY-TECH STEAM LAUNDRY. INC.                  6.000      8.000       14.711     10.000      9.000      1.000       4.711      31.949      33,115            0          0       8.222       7.964
PREMIUM LABORATORIES. INC.                    12.723      7.726        4.453      3,700      3.330       370         783       17.821       18.177                               1,297      1.375
PRIME TAG INDUSTRIES                             544        544       12428      2.000       1.500      200       10.428      12.780       13.036           0          0        1.374      1.456
PRINTOSCOPE CORPORATION                        6.320      3.589        5.000      3.800      3.420       380        1.200      10.000       10,200          0           0       1.208       1.280
OUALITRONICS ENTERPRISE                          412        412          755        500        450        50          255       7.381        7.381           0          0         807        817
OUALITYLABELS.INC.                             5.197      7.400        9.678      4.000      2.700      1.300       5.673      11.734       14,031           0          0       2.855       2.741
OUIAPOPRINTINWARiSENIOR.REYES                  3.111       2.576       1.684      1.600      1,350       150          164       3.576       3.850           0           0         538        575
RADIANT FOOD PRODUCTS                          9.710      8.337        2.626      2.000      1.800       200         628          533         544           0           0          40         42
RAATEX INDUSTRIAL                              2.384      1.958        .049      3,000      2.700       300        S.049      12.638      13,900           0           0       1,73*       1.668
REFAINGTON PRINTING PRESS                      1.200      1.200         745         600        540        60         145        1.309      1650            0           0         174        209
RO MEDITRON INCORPORATED                      10.120      9.430       10.120      6,000      5.400       600        4,120      58.874      53,870           0           0       2,548        315
RIVERASLUMBER.HARDWARE&CONC.                   5.576      7.495        3.613      2.200      1.980       220        1.413      18.415      17,973           0          0        2.938      2.766
ROTESOROASONS.INC.                             5.573      2.322         750         500        450        60         250       12.196      12.196                                 941        809
ROBINHOOD MANUFACTURING                       13.763     10.113        7.250      6.000      5.400       600        1.250      63.063      74,69            0          0        2.028      1.947
ROLTAN. INC.                                   9.654     11.488       12.521     10.000      9.000     1.000        2.628      11.320      12.120           0          0        1.356      1.592
ROMARS HOMEFURNISHING                          1.857       1.552       1.1SO        lSo        765        as         300        3.593       3,941           0          0         282         572
RONEL INDUSTRIES                               8,770      7.780        1.911      1.700      1,530       170         211       22.074      24.281           0          o        3.790      3,638
ROSEVERGOLDSMITHAJEWELRYSTORE                  8.190      2,878        3.482      2.755      2.480       276         707       13,824       8,012           0          0        1.560        823
RSN FOOD PRODS.                                  ass        654         459         300        300         0         1I9        4.714       4,805                                 377        400
SAMINGO INDUSTRIES. INC.                      13.120      6.524       16.528     12,000     10,800      1.200       4.528      31.702      32,338           0          0        3.152      3.341
SAMSONUOTOR WORKS                              4.200      4.223        2.100      1.750      1.575       175         350        6.011       8,672           0          0        1.438      3.002
rxIp*mr rnpownrirhl                           2 7Wn       I,78        I 6?       I nnn        ' I  n     I -in i    r                          .                                 . ..



PageS                                                                                                                                                                                   Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-PHIl
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amounl In P 000 000)
PRELOAN   PRELOAN    TOTAL         TOTAL                                        SALES                   EXPORT                PROFIT
ASSET    OWNER'S  PROJECT    LOAN             IGLF       PFI.  1lORROWER 
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE               SIZE      EQUITY      COST    GRANTED  S1ARE    SHARE    EQUITY   PROJECTED   ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL  PROJECTED  ACTUAL
SANFELIPE MAR9LE&STEELPROOUCTS                1.651     t.621         523        400        360       40          123       2,000       2.000          0          0         241        241
SCANAGRAPH. INC.                             10.953      8.e82      5,274      4.000      3.600       400       1.274      25.950      29.116          0          0       5.399      3.233
SEACOM INDUSTRIAL CORP.                      19.962     8.5s6       2.000      2.000      2.000         0           0      21,868      27.513       6.337      6.200       1.073       752
SELECTIVETIMBEREXPORT                        15.550     14.757     35.500     15.000     13.500     1.500      20.500      15.363      70.043      44.798         0        1.241      1.050
SEVILLA CANDLE FACTORY. INC.                 12.714     9.554       9.509      8.000      7.200       800       1,.09      19.993      20.120          0          0       2.215        778
SMACONCRETEPRODUCTSASTEELBARS                  737        635         311        250        225        25          aI       1.443       1.215          0                    ISO        133
SOUTHERN PHILS. RUBBER MFG. IND.             2.123       1,.17      1,3e8      1.000        900       100        366        3.250       3.452          0          0         631        416
SPEEDWAY FABRICATORSCO.. INC.                13.900     8.050       7,191      2.200      1.980       220       4.991      38.234      38.548          0                   5.230     4.325
SOUAREGEMS MANUFACTURING                      1.771     3.330       2.159      1.000        900       100       1.159       5.130       4.647          0          0          59        172
ST. JOSEPH PLASTICRAFT                         606        345         709        600        540        60         109       2.309       2.286          0          0         395        322
SUPERCRAFTINDUSTRIES                          1.424      1.230      1.252      1.200      1.080       120         52        3.220       3.542          0          0         219        226
TABANG SAWMILL. INC.                         19.410       200       7.384      s.000      4.500       500       2.354      29.628      32.355          0          0       3.180      3.596
TACTICS GARMENTS                             2.677        915       2,200      1.800      1.620       too        400       10.554      13.025          0          0         849        527
TAIJI EXCLUSIVES. INC.                        1.953      I.B79       1.140       700        630        70        440        3.047       2.742          0          0         405        393
UNITED ASIA WEAVING & TRIMMING MFG.          12.000     8.533       9.012      7.000      8.300      700        2.012      15,692      18.131          0          0       4.053      3.850
UNITED VINYL CORPORATION                     10.421     7.5se      17.810     Is.000     13.500     1.0oo       2.610      48.089      44.706          0          0       1.631      1.549
UNIWEAR UFG. AND TRADING                      5.590     5.659       4.510      4.000      3.600      400         o10       24.508     25.864           0          0       4.41I      4.545
VA & SONS INC.                                5.351     4.356       3.569      1.500      1.350       15O       2.069      25.300      24.541          0          0         549        522
VELPRINTCORPORATION                          15.291     11.234     12.2B1     10,000      9,000     1.000       2.281      31.100     30.167           0          0       4.704      4,469
VILLARINOMACHINE SHOP                          520        *60         203        153        137       is          50         350         380           0          0         130        ISO
WALLEX INDUSTRIAL CORP.                      6.334        600       7.279      5.000      4.500      600        2.279      31.328     31.757           0          0       3.170      2.733
WELLARINDUSTRIALCORP.                        7.000      4.375      17.137     13,000     11.700.    1.300       4.137     55.605      55.950           0          0       3.465      3.292
WELLPACKINCORPORATED                         8.163      4.694       3.500      3.000      1.000        0        2.500       1.315       1.186          0          0          78         76
WESTERNFABRICS.PHILIPPINES                   19.212    15.212      20,000     16.000      5,400      600       14.000     40,182      36.164           0          0       4.260      4.132
WlNNEX VINYL PRODUCTS CORP.                  19.030    13.783       6.238      5,000      4.500      S00        1.236     27.570      27.034           0          0       4.525      4.584
WOLPERHANDICRAFr MFG.                        4.599      3.866      13.233     10.000      9.000     1.000       3.233      10.835      11.020          0          0       1.573      1.950
170   1.238.502    8S7.616   1.023.850    655,153    5855612    66,570    371.075   3.262.935   3.140.034     257.787    138.270    336,720    263.257



Page S                                                                                                                                                                                      Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-PHI
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amount In P'000'000)
AS % OF TOTAL       AS % OF TOTAL
TOTAL  LONG-TERM    ASSETS                 EQUITY
ASSETS                          LIABILITIES                                    DEDTT DEBT  I
--          ______- CURRENT  EQUITY    EOUITY             PROJ.   ACTUAL   PROJ.   ACTUAL
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE            CURRENT   FIXED        TOTAL       CURRENT LONG-TER    EOUITY   TOTAL              RATIO    RATIO       RATIO    PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT
13 P.M. ENTERPRISES                           i.335       123       2.151       293         300        1.615       2.158      4 s5      0.35        0.19       20%       22%       27%       31%
24 K PRINITING CO.. INC.                        637       646        1.213      321           0          962       1.283      1.95      0.33        0.00       21%       20%       28%       27%
ABET AGUIRRE StIOE FACTOnY                    3.136      L.OW5       4.236      455        1.,75       1.90p       4.236      700       I 22       0o9         1111      16%       41U       36%X
ACCURATE PRINTING INCORPORATED                2.165      1.394       3.X59      775        1.456       1.326       3.559      2.79      1 as         1.10      183%       1%       47%       42U
ADD RESEARCH PRODUCTS. INC.                  13.001    10.735       23.736     2.301       4.213      17,222      23,736      5.65      0.33        0.24       20%       21%       26%       30%
AGL PLASTI-PRINT INDUSTRY                     3.939     5.0s6        9.025      677         496        7.852       9,025      5.82      0.15        0.06        5%        5%        6%        6%
ALBERTCOMUERCIAUALBERTOGALANC                 2.950      1.045       3.995      409        1,125       2.461       3.99S      7.21      0.62        0.45       11%       12%      1t%        19%
ALEXANDER'S WEAR                              15.023      781       16.804      455       11.563      86733       183.04     36.93      1.79        1.72       10%       10%       29U       23%U
ALFA-TECH. CHEMICAL & MFG. CORP.             10.206     6.670       16.376     3.998       9.000       3:878      16876       2.55      3.35        2.32        9%        9%       41%       40%
ALPHAFEEDMILLS.INC.                          16.850     4.234       21.084     4.759       5.920       7.405      21.034      3.54      1.85        1.20       11%        5%       32%   .  23%
ALPHA LUMBERa CONSTRUCTION SUPPL              2.211     4.095        6.306      511        2.175       2.920       0,306      4.33      1.16        0.98        GO        5%       12%       11%
ALPINE INTERNATIONALEXPORTS. INC.             6.293    11.014       17.307     3.450       5.G55  .    *.206      17.307      1.82      1.11        0.69       10%        6%1      22%       13%
ALUCAST INTERNATIONAL MFG. INC.               11.581    7.404       18.985     1.216       9.500       1.269      18.935      9.52      1.30         1.15      11%       15%       25%       33%
AM ENTERPRISESIROLANDO L. ALUAZON             3.425       995        4.420      599        1.256       2.555       4,420      5.72      0.73        0 50       26%       25%       45%       43U
AMITY MANUFACTURING                          11.252     6.369       17.821     3,519       6.263       7.839      17.021      3.20      1.25        0.80       12%        6%       26%       13%
ARCA. YOLANDA                                   250       to0         440        20          75         345          440     12.50      0.28        0.22       56%       SI%       71%       65%
ASIAN UETALS                                   1.108    2.310        3.416      270        1.508       1.640       3.418      4.10      1.05        0.92        6%        7%       13%       15%
ASPENPAPERPRODUCTSCORP.                      22.120    33.392       55.512     9.562      25.675      19,955      55.512      2.23      1.78        1.30       1ak       17%       49%       47%
BALINGITHOUE FURNISHING                       7.524     3,867       11.391      854        3.500       7.037      11,391      8.81      062         0so        20%         *%      41%       13%
BASE CORPORATION                              1.586     3.452        5.318     1.868          0        3.452       6,318      1.00      0.54        0 00       89%       86%      137%      133%
BELT GASAIRPRODS.                             7.813     6.680       14.493      372        3.251      10.870      14.403     21.00      033         030        18%        8%       2401      11%
BEIISAN INDUSTRIES. INC.                     33.571     4,335      37.906       471       17.834      19.600      37.06o    71.28       0.93        0.91       18%       14%       34%       27%
BICOLBRANOSINTERNATIONAL.INC.                  1.3861    1.134      2.n95      1.240          0        1.765      ,2.995      1.50      0.71        0.00        7%        7%       12%       12%
BLAU-MAGIC. INC.                              3.754    14.598       18.352      361        8.000       9.991 t    18.352     10.40      0.54        0.80        9%       11%       17%       20%
BRUTUS FOOD SYSTEM INC                          762     5.842       8.604      1.791       2.680       2.153       6.604      0.43      2.07        1.24       21%       14%       84%       44%
CA SOUARE GARMENTS                            s.5s6     7.018       12,554    s.060        3.482       4.042      12.584      1.10      2.11        086         3%       13%        9%       41%
CARBONLESSPAPER.INC.(CPO                     185.11     2.644      21.255      1,741       8.719      10,795      21.255     10.69      0.97        05l        12%       11%       23%       23%
CARSWOOD ENTERPRISES                           1.047     1.596      2.643       703         630        1.305       2.643      1.42      1.03        0.48       76%        4%      153%        5%
CASENAS.JOSEMA CYRILtREINAMARIE                 468       305        1,273      101         437         735        1.273      4.63      0.73        059        36%       26%       62%       44%f
CCCFOODPRODUCTS                                 904       422        1,326      190         lie        1.020       1.320      4.76      0.30        0.11       44%       35%       57%       45U
CEBU CONTIIIENTALPRINTERS                     9,350     2.745       12.095     3.013       1.121       7,251.     12.095      3.10      0.67        0.25       15%       15%       25%       25%
CENTURY WORLWIDE EXPORT                        1.990    6.277        8.267      527        2.833       4,907       8.207      3.7B     0a G         0.55       11%        7%       18%       12%
CEREAL FOOD CORPORATION                      20,050      5.593      25.043     0.143       6.908      12.592      25,643      325       1.04        055        16%       25%       33%       52%
CHARANICE INTERNATIONAL SALES                   907       571        1.476       33         917         475        1.478     10.93      2.09        1.92       16%       14%       50%       42%
CHEMAOILLIGIHTERAGECORP.                      15.726    20.945      31.17t     5.937      11.270      11.814      38.671      2.63      2.10        1.60        6%        6%       15%       19
...-..... ...     . _                         4k., , O  .*          A 174     I 1'7       2 --         in?7      At 71 I     47 I      nr.    n n i I'    ^              M%..     *7e*



~sqe 7                                                                                                                                                                                     Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-Pi 11
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amount In P'000'000)
AS * OF TOTAL       AS % OF TOTAL
TOTAL  LONG-TEnM    ASSETS                 EQUITY
ASSETS                          LIABILITIES                                    DEBT/      DEBT/   ------- --
__ __   -         -  ------ -  ---                                              CURRENT  EQUITY    EQUITY         PROJ.   ACTUAL   PROJ.   ACTUAL
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE            CURRENT   FIXED    TOTAL           CURRENT LONG-TER    EQUITY   TOTAL              RATIO    RATIO       RATIO    PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT
CLARSON ENTERPRISES. INC.                     7.337    16.243       23,580    18,600       1,743       5.237      23.580      0.44      3.50        0.33       28%       14%       s2%       62%
CLEVELANDTEXTILE MILLS                        9.869    11.541       21.410     1.399       9,780      10.251      21.410      7.05      1.09        095         6%       14%       13%       29%
COVER aPAGESCORP.                             2.764     3.233        5.997     1.999       I,058       2.940       5.097      1.38      1.04        0.36       12%        1%       25%        2%
CRISLI ENTERPRISEICRISTE                       1.899       91        1.990      327         787          876       1.900     5s of         27       0.90       9OS        14S      21%       31t
CRUZANT ENGINEERING                             900      1.50s       2.400       38         216        2.152       2.406     2368       0.12        0.10       24%       22%       27%t      25%
O A N CORPORATION                             2.124      1,219       3.343      355          938       2.050       3,343     5se        063         0 46       122       22%i      20%       36%
DARAGAHOUSEOFFINEHANDICRAFTS                    488      1,139       1.027      906         321          400      12.27       0.54      307         080         9%        9%       36%       37%
DAVAO UNITED ENGINEERItJG&EOPT.               6.637     4.962       11.599     1.736       4,523       5.350      2 26.0      382       1.17        084         s%        8%       20%       17%
DECO MACHINE SHOP INC                         5.432     4.507        9,939      894        1.200       7,845       9.939      0.08      027         0.5         0%b       4%        8%        5%
DKC INDUSTRIAL CORP                           lo.880    16.760      27.440     3.420      10.560      13.480      27.440      3.12      1 04        0.78        1%        l%        2%        2%
DRAGON KNIGHT INDUSTRIAL PHILS.              31.361     9.242       40.603     4.652      16.652      19.299      40.603      6.74      1.10        a Be       17%       20%       35%       42%
DUMAGO ST. PETER PRESS                         1.103     1.156       2.259     S52          392        1.349       2.259      2 13      0.67        0.29       34%6       50%      57%        8%
D. MENDOZAWOODWORKS& SASH FACTO              6t310        852        7.102      883         625       5s654        7.t62      7.15      027         0.11       24s%      25%       30%       32%
EaNGUERRERORATTANCRAFTIND.                    4.012       984        4.99,      322        1,422       3,252       4,996     1246       054         044        17%       17%       26%       26%
EBC MERCHANDISINGIEDUARDO LAW                 4.890      1.550       8.440      560        2,344       3.536       0.440      8 73      0 82        0.66       16%       17%       28%       31%
EDDIE ACOJEDO MARBLE ENTERPRISES               1.579     1,599       3.178      211         427        2.540       3.178      7.48      025         017        10%       20%       13%       13%
EJGOMEZ CONCRETEPRODUCTS                      2.399      1.012       3,411      298        1.500       1.715       3.411     12.24      0.99        087        13%       22%       26%       23%
ELPA ROOUE MACHINE SHOP                       2,300     6.187        8.487      990        2.500       4.997       8.487      2.32      0 70        0.50       I5%       16%       25%       27%
ELYSSE MOTORS                                 6.568      1.808       8.376     3.339       1,500       3.537       8,378      1.97      1.37        0.42       87%       12%      160%       28%
ENLIST EXPORTS                                  Ise       so0         662         a           0         658         662      26 00      00          0 00       17%       17%       17%       17%
ESP PRINTERS INC.                             8.000     4,000       10.000     1.000       2,000       7.000      10.000      6 00      0.43        0.29        7%       20%       10%       14%
EUROCOOL CRAFT INDUSTRIES                     3.837      1,974       5.822     4.426       3,000      (1.6I5)      5.811      0.87     (4.80)      (2.86)      33%i       2%    -118%        -6%
EVER AMPLE TEXTILE MFG. CORP.                 6,590     4,268       20.858      980        2,250       7,628      10.658      6.72      042         0.29       12%       12%       17%       17%
EXCELLENCE PACKAGING CORP.                    7.139     8.625       16.754    3.790       5,962        6.002      15.754      1 88      1 62        0.99        6%        7%       17%       17%
FAIR LADY MANUFACTURING                         300     1,200        1.500        0          70        1,430      22.500                0.0s        005         2%        1%        1%       I2P
FELTON COMMERCIAL a IND. CORP.               37.113     9.344      46.457     3,879       18.750      23.828      46.457      9.67      0 95        0 79       17%       26%       330%      32%f
FERRARI GARMENTStCIRILO RAOTRAOT                903     1.398       2,301       324         642        1.336       2.301      2.79      0.72        0 48       17%       17%       29%       30%
FLORAGENERIC VENTURES                         8,797     4.996      13.793     3.517         820        9.466      13,793      2.50      0.48        009       110%      -33%      168%      -48%
FLORAtITE GARMENTS                           13.440     6.036       19,478    8.310         538      .10.628      19.476     1262       0 83        005       27%       26%       50%        48%
G a G BISLIG PRINTERS                         3.062     5.297       8.349       8s5         919        6.572       8.349      3.56      0 27        0.14      27%       28%       35%        36%
G*IJINDUSTRIES                                1.241     2.,93       4.134       579         194        3.361       4.134      2.14      0.23        0.06       14%       13%       17%       16%
GALLERIACRAFTS. INC.                          3.345     6.080       9.425     3.337       2.854        3.234       9.425      1.00      1.91        0.86       7%        7%       20*A       21%
GENESIS MARKETING                             3.121       286        3.407      394        1,458       2.555       3,407      792       1.19        094        13,%       4%       29%        8%
GOLD PACKAGING & UFG. CORP.                  11.253     8.602       19.655    6.697        3.066      10.092      19.55      2 a8      0.97        0.30       22%      23%        43%       44%
HAtIFORDPHILIPPINES.MNC.                      2.601    14.562       17.383      705        8.500      11.15S      17.383      397       05o         049        I9%1     12%        30%       29%s



Poge a                                                                                                                                                                                  Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-PHI
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amount In P'000'000)
AS % OF TOTAL      AS % OF TOTAL
TOTAL  LONG-TERM    ASSETS                 EQUITY
ASSETS                          LIABILITIES                                   DEBTL DEBT  
___ _- _--       - _________        ___ __-            __---_-_  CURRENT EQUITY    EQUITY          PROJ.   ACTUAL   PROJ.   ACTUAL
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE            CURRENT   FIXED    TOTAL         CURRENT LONG-TER    EQUITY   TOTAL              RATIO    RATIO      RATIO    PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT
IDEAL PRINTERSCO                             9.714     6.317      10.031     3.259         458      12.314      18.031      2.95      0.30        004       2246      21U       21%       27%
INCIONG MACASAET TRADING CORP.                 802     2.193       3.055         0         960       2.095       3.055                0.46       0 46        S%        5%        8%        6%
INTERNATIONAL GENERAL AUTO PARTS             10.35U    10915      21.303    23.377           0      (2.074)     21,303      0.44    ( 1.27)      000        17%      -16%    -178%    160%
IRWIN MOTORS                                   *73       432       1.30S         0         400         905       1,305                0.44        0.44      29%       34%       42%       49%
ISAROG PRINTING INC.                          3.752      301       4,053       524         750       2.779       4.063      7.16      0.46        0.27      60%      s55        85%       *5%
JA GALITA ENTERPRISES                        5.547   5' 0          6.057       270           0       5,787   e ,0s7        20.54      0.05        0.00       5%        5%        9%        5%
JOL CHEMIE INC                               3.697      1.053      4.750     2.973         750      .1:027       4.750      1.24      3.63       0.73       55%       53%      256%      245%
JOHNTERFIRENCEMAUFACTURING                   6.642     4.575      11.417       465       5.000       5.052      11.417     14.71      0.92       0.84        3%        7%        5%       13%
JON RODNEY GARMENTS                          16.136    5.375      24.511     1.019      10.000      13.492      24,611     15'4       0.82        0.74      23%       19%       42%       35%
JONASINTERNATIONALPHIL                       11.489    10.559     22.048     6.078       6.605       9.365..    22.045      1.59      1.35        0.71       S%        4%       11%       10%
JONERSRTWIEDUARDOSY                           4.012     2.15s      6.167       359       1.875       3.933       6.167     11.15      0.57        0.46      16%       21%       26%       33%
JORDACHE NATIVECRAFT PHILIPPINES              9.489    3.958       13.477    1.190       3.354       8.933      13.477      7.97      0.51        0.35       12%       4%      1t%         6%
JP'S GARMENTS                                 1.479      528        2,367        0          0oo      1.567       2.367                0.51        0.os      24%       16%       37%       24%
JUNHALILIFASHIONHOUSE                         1.218    17,075      18.293      939           0      17.304      18.293      1.23      006         000        13'      12%       13%       13%
KARIMADON TRADING                            14.754     1.097      15.851    11.630          0       4.221      15.551      1.27      2.76       0.00        8%        5%       30%       32%
KEESHIATOY INDUSTAIES                        4.101     2095        7.09e       750       1.269       5.077       7.096      5 47      0.40       0.25       20%       23%       28%       32%
KING3 MASTER INDUSTRIES                      8.058      1.280      9.338     1.435       2.500       6.403       9.338      5.62      0.73       0.46       10%       13%       17%       23%
KING PRINTERS                                  6se      1.560      2.216       272         305      1Kt39        2.216      2.41     0.35        0.19       6est       7%       21%        9%
KINJOININDUSTRIALCORP.                       18.028    7.84S      25.73     2.047      12.000      11.626      25.,73      8.51     1.19        1.01       10%       12%       21%      26%
LADY BACK ENTERPRISES                        2.573     6.922       9.795       515       4.000       5.280       9.795      5.S8     0.86        0.76       12%       16%       23%       29%
LAVINA. JUANITOILEONTINA                      1.600    3.252       4.882        39       1.230       3.563       4.882.    17.98     0.37        0.35        6%        5%        8U        7%
LIBIRAN. NORBERTO                              150       195         345         0         40         305         345                0.13        0.13       43%       29%       49%      33%
LOTUS EMBROIDERY                               171     3.420       3.691       1SO       2.397       1.014       3.591     0.95      2.54        2.36       24%        1%       84%       4%
L.DAVISLEATHERCRAFT                           1.766    3.911       5.677       489       2.000       3.188       6.677      3.61     0.78        0.63        9%        8%       16%      15%
MASTERIRONWORKS&CONSTRUCTION                13.005     5.325      15.333     2,178       4.470      10.985      18.333     4.52      0.67        0.41       27%        2%       44%       3%
MAWELLCHEMICALCORP.                          7.716       955       e.871     2.531       1.000       5.140       18671     3.05      0.69        0.19       14%       15%       23%       26%
MEDICAL GENERIC LABORATORY                   7.163     8.9tl      14.074     6.203       3.797       4.074 .    14.074      1.16     2.45        0.93        3U        1%       10%       6%
MEGAPACKICONTAINERCORP.                      8,893    10.655      19.548     8.265       6.200       5.053      19,548      1.08     2.85        1.22       62%        6%      239%      21%
MERMtAID MULTI-PPO0UCT                      20.300     4,955      25.215     2.257       9.295      13.733     25.285         99     0.54        0.68       13%       16%      24%       29%
MIL-OROI4ANUFACTURING                        13.021    5.925      18.949     4.163       *.000       6.786      11,949     3 t3      1.79        1.1I       16X%      15%      42%       41%
MINDANAOEDITORIALAPRIINTING                   2.520    3.360       5.900       250       1.520       4.100       5.900     900       0.44        0.37        4%       12%       6%        17%
USMACHINERY&METALFAS9RCATION                  6.36S    2.18       t0.623     t.so2       4.200       4.,17      10.s23    s5s        1.15        0.87        S%       7%        ItU      IS%
MULTI FORMS CORPORATION                      9.000    24.000      33.000     6.000      17.000      11.000     33,000       1 50     2 00        1.55        6%        3%      1t%        9%
MYRA INDUSTRIES PHILIPPINES                  2.5so     3.078       5.578       878       3.600       1.300      6.578      3.59      3.29        2.77        5%      3J        23%       15%
NAPALA. BOIAPARTE                             1.157    6.970      14.J27     1.154       3.260      10.353      14.627     ass       0.43        0.31       10%        7%      14%       10%
~~~~~~***                      *s-*f      0b%l                      a n e   {,..   ez,A   *.,-,. r   -..                 .,...      . ... 



Page g                                                                                                                                                                                      Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-PIl
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amount In P'000'000)
AS % OF TOTAL       AS % OF TOTAL
TOTAL  LONG-TERtM   ASSETS                 EQUITY
ASSETS                          LIABILITIES         .                          DEBTI      DEBT          D
_ _- -_ _______   ____ _ _____  _-- -   -   8  CURRENT  EOUITY    EQUITY        PROJ.   ACTUAL   PROJ.   ACTUAL
INVESTMENT ENTERPRISE            CURRENT   FIXED    TOTAL           CURRENT LONG-TER    EQUITY   TOTAL              RATIO    RATIO       RATIO    PROFIT   PROFIT   PRoFIT   PROFIT
NEPCOMPINT HAUS                                 724       290        1,014      275         263          476       1,014      263       1.13        0.65       34%       26%       73%       s5%
NISSIN MANUFACTURING CORP.                    12.318    13.230      25.548     2.645       6.078      16.82S      25.548      4 66      0 52        0 36       14%       13%       21%       20%
NUNAG.DIOSDADOIERLINDA                        2.907      2.705       5.612      637        1.042       3,933       5,6l2      4.s6      0.43        0.26       21%       22%       30%       31%
PACIFICCONTINENTALCOMPANY,INC.               30.175     4.912       35,087     3.105      15.649      13.333      35.047      9.72      ta.3        1.40       10%       10%       26%A      27%
PERLA'S RTW                                   2.175      1.362       3.537      298         540        2.699       3.637      7.30      0.31        0.20       24%       26%       32%       34%
PHILEXSON INTERNATIONAL                       5.470      3.504       8.974        0        1.5S9       7.385       8,074                0 22        0.22       27%       26%       32%       31%
PHILIPPINECHE)JSTEELINb..INC.                 11.334    10.l5o      21.890     1.372       5.250      15.268'     21.690      *.26      0.43        0.34       20%       19%A      29%       27%
PHILIPPINE INDOCOIL CORP.                    27.000    56.000       85.000    23.000      30.000      32.000      65.000      1.17      1 6e        0.94        2%        0%        6%        0%          w
PHILIPPINERUSTPROOFING.INC.                   10.059    4.625       14.637      467           0       14.220      14.687     21.54      0.03        0.00        6%        6%        8%        6%
PHILIPPINE WOOLEN SPINNING CORP.             I1.647    10.433       22.080     1.421       7.906       s.753   .  22,080      1.38      2.34        1.37       12%        1%       46%        4%
PHILSTONEINOUSTRIAL&MF. CORP.                 3.115     4.493       12.602     1,390       2.813       8.399      12.608      5.31      0.50        0.33       24%       25%       36%       38%
PHOENIX PRESS. INC.                           7.539     86.11       16.350     1.714       1.750      12.8a      16,350      4 40      0.27        0.14        6%        7%        B%        9%
PKS SHIPPING CO.. INC.                        3.486    14.411       17,697     1.295       4.372      12.230      17.897      269       0.46        0.36       15%        7%       2246      10%
POLYMASTERINDUSTRIALCORP.                     14.911    5.026       19.937     I.s90       6.925      11.422      19,937      9.38      0.75        0.61       16%       21%       28%       36%
POLY-TECH STEAl LAUNDRY, INC.                 10.133    20.124      30.257     1.356      10.000      16.99s      30.257      7.46      060         0.53       27%       26%       44%       42%
PREMIUM LABORATORIES. INC.                   10.444     6.419       16.663     3.766       3.500       9.577      16.863      2.76      0 76        0 37        8%        5%       14t       14%
PRIIAE TAG INDUSTRIES                         3.132     9.795       12.927     1.312       1.320      10.295      12,927      239       0.28        0.13       11%       1l%b      13%       14%
PRINTOSCOPE CORPORATION                       3.343     7.77e       11.119     2.792       2.506       5,819      11.119      1.20      091         0.43       11%       12%       21%       22%
OUALITRONICS ENTERPRISE                         946       406        1.352       30         665          657       1,352     31.53      1.06        1.01       60%       60%      123%      124%
OUALITY LABELS. INC.                          1.312    1 1.9        13.s63     1.321       2.250       9.792     .13.363      1.05      0.36        0.23       21%4      21%       29%       28%
QUIAPOPRINT7NGIARSENIOR. REYES                2.820     2.200        5.020      soo        1.408       3.114       5.020      5.04      0.61        0.45       11%       11%       17%      1%
RADIANT FOOD PROoUCTS                         1,453     5.739       7.197       542       2.217        4.436       7,197      2.69      0.62        0.50        1%        1%        1%        1I
RAMTEX INDUSTRIAL                             3.425     3,5O0       6.925       710        1.w00       4,415       6.925      4872      0.57        0.41       25%       24%       39%       36%
REMINGTON PRINTING PRESS                        930     1.193       2.123       190         563        1.370       2.123      4 09      0.55        0.41        8%       10%       13%       15%
RG MEDITRON INCORPORATED                     16,793    12.969      29.762    18,030       11.020        712       29.702      0.93     40.60       15.45        9%        1%     368%        44%
RIVERAS LUMBER. HARDWARE & CONC.              9.157     1.729       10.111    1.096       2,294        7.498      10.366      8.35      045         031       28%        25%       40%       37%
RO TESORO & SONS. INC.                        3.523     2.055       5,973     1.019         769       4,185       5.973       3.82     0 43         0.18       16%       14%      22%        19%
ROBINHOOOhMANUFACTURING                      13.593     7.055      20.648     5.207       3.600       11.341     20,648      2.61      0.74         0.30      10%        9%        17%      16%
ROLTAN.INC.                                   4.441    19.201      23.642       750      10.000       12.392     23.642       5.92     0.33         0.73       6%         7%       1 lb      12%s
ROMAR'SHOMEFURNISHING                         1.120     1.553       2.673       190         517        1.968      2,673      589       0.36         026        11%      21%        14%      29%
RONELINOUSTRIES                               5.261     5.611      13.572     1.3U4       1.113       11.375      13.s72      597      0.22         0.10      27%       26%       33%       32%
ROSEVERGOLDSMITH&JEWELRY STORE                6.,35     1.710       s.095     1.461       2.7S5       3.,79        5.095      437       1.09        071       21%        10%      43%       21%
RSH FOOD PRODS.                               1.051       714        1.795      436         597         712        1,795      222       1.52        0.84      21%       22%       63%       56%
SAJJINGO INDUSTRIES. INC.                    23.946     6.096      29.042     4.655       10.500      13.057     29.042       5 11      1 10        0.76       11%      12%       23%       24%
SAMSON MOTORWORKS                             1.715     5.824       7.339     3.035           0        4.304       7.339      057       0.71       0.00       20%       4146      33%       70%
Z     l ,,,,,,, r-PrtFial                     4 I59       703       4 #;1?                 IV11                      , -7    Anq       n * l        ln *,:   ^   * ..



Page tO                                                                                                                                                                                     Annex 2
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
FINANCIAL INDICATOFIS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 3038-PHil
FOR 170 SUBPROJECTS WITH FINANCIAL DATA
(Amount In P'000'000)
AS % OF TOTAL       AS % OF TOTAL
TOTAL  LONG-TERM    ASSETS                 EQUITY
ASSETS                          LIABILITIES                                    DEBTE DEBT/ 
-       -                       -_--- ___            7--            CURRENT  EQUITY    EQUITY         PROJ.   ACTUAL   PROJ.   ACTUAL
INVESTMENT ENTERPAISE            CURRENT   FIXED        TOTAL       CURRENT LONG-TER    EQUITY   TOTAL              RATIO    RATIO       RATIO    PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT   PROFIT
.   _  _   _  _ _   -   --   -                                                                            -      _     -   -      _   _  _  _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -   - -- - 
SAN FELIPE MARBLEl STEEL PRODUCTS               877      1.504       2.381       59         400        1.922       2.381     14.86      0.24        021        10%       10%       13%       13U
SCANAGRAPH. INC.                              5.907     8.404       14.311      537        5.723       *.051      14.311     11.00      0.78        0.71       38%       23%       67%       40%
SEACOM INDUSTRIALCORP.                       10.353     7.262       17.815     3.559       5,000       9.056      17.615      2.91      095         0.55        6%        4%       12%        8%
SELECTIVE TILMBER EXPORT                     14.555    19.974      37.s29       SS2       21.055      15.922      37.529     33.61      1.38        1.32        3%        3U        3%        7%
SEVILLACANDLE FACTORY, INC.                  17.313       739       18,052     8.707       5.667       6.678      18.052      2.58      2.18        1.00       12%        4%       39%       14%
SM CONCRETEPRODUCTS&STEELBARS                   807       60S        1.116       III        234         771        1.II      5.47      0.45 .      0.30       13%       12%       19%       17%
SOUTHERN PHILS. RUBBER MFG. INO.              1.437      937         2.354      287         900        1.187       2.354      8.38      0.98        0.70       27%       18%       63%       35%
SPEEDWAYFABRICATORSCO., INC.                  17.674     7.190     24.754      8,782       2.092      15.880      24.754      2.59      0.56        0.13       21%       17%       33%       27%           oa
SOUAREGEMSUMANUFACTURING                      2.241     3.398        5.646      145        2.171       3.330       8.646     15.50      0.70        0.85        1%        3%        2%        5%
ST. JOSEPH PLASTICRAFT                         1.473      712        2.185      397         788        1.000       2.185      3.71      1.19        0.79       18%       15%       40%       32%
SUPERCRAFT INDUSTRIES                         2.252       429        2.681      234         980        1.487       2,681      9.82      0.80        0.65        3i%       s%       1558      15%
TABANG SAWMILL. INC.                          14.133     2.052      19,185     1.905       5.125      11.155      18.185      8.47      063         0.48       17%       20%       29%       32%
IACTICSGARM4ENTS                              4.250       788       5,038      1.974       1.600       1.464       5,038      2.15      2.44        1.09       1l%       10%       38%8      36%
TANI EXCLUSIVES. INC.                         2.481       654        3.135      16e         673        2.276       3.135     13.34      0.38        0.30       13%       13%       18%       17%
UNITEO ASIA WEAVING & TRIMMING MFG.          22.368     3.936      26.304       908        5.833      19.663      20.304     24.63      0.34        0.30       15%       15%       21%       20%
UNITED VINYL CORPORATION                      15.927    12.759     28,688      9.935      10.68s       8.066      28.688      1.60      2.56        1.32        6%        5%       20%       19%
UNIWEAR MFG. AND TRADING                     20.9s8       584      21.1U2      2.464       2.008      18.710     *21,182      8.36      027         0.12       21%       21%       26%       27%
VA. &SONS INC.                                9.219     2.146       11.365     1.725       3.468       6.172      11.3e5      5.34      0.84        0.56        5%        5%        9%        8%
VELPRINT CORPORATION                         24.67     5.659      30.520      3.164      12.180      15.176      3o,s26      7.86      10t         0.80       15%       15%       31%       29%
VILLARINO MACHINESSHOP                          280       760        1.010       So          too        80o        1.010      5.20      0.l7        0.12       13%       15%       15%       17%
WALLEXINOUSTRIALCORP.                        11.029     4.417       15.446     1.,92       3.094      10.45q     .16.445      5.83      0.48        0.30       21%       13%       30%       26%
WELLARINDUSTRIALCORP.                        24.652     3.583      28.135     4.,70       15.825       7.,40      28.135      5.28      2.59        1.99       12%       12%       44%       42%
WELLPACK INCORPORATED                         8.130       690       ,8.20     3.130        2.870      3t020        S.820      2.60      1.92        0.88        1%        1%        3%        3%
WEsTERNFABRICS.PHILIPPINES                   13.029    23.583      36,612     3.217       15.350  .   18.045      36.812      4.05      1.03        0.8s       12%       11%       24%       23%
WINNEXVINYLPROOUCTSCORP.                     23.002     8.785      31.787     3.412       11.687      16.788      31.787      6.74      0.89        0.69       16%       14%       20%       27%
WOLPER HANDICRAFT MFG.                        3.475     3,819       7.294       750        1.000       5.544       7.294      4.63      0.32        0.18       26%       27%       34%       35%
170    1.303.029   039.696   2.242.025   393.123    708.456   1.141.045   2.242.62S      3.31      0.97         0.62   .   15%      12%       30%        23%



65
Annex 3
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
HISTORICAL STRUCTURE OF INTEREST RATES
(Figures in Percent)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
DEPOSIT RATES
Savings Deposit                4.53   4.10   4.37    5.06   4.79   na
Time Deposits
61-180days                  9.50  11.77  14.22  20.34   19.14   14.01
Short Term                  8.37  10.98   15.97  20.58   18.53   14.06
All Maturities              9.77  13.39  16.98  20.21   18.54   14.05
LENDING RATES
Secured Loans (Average)        13.30  16.00  19.46   24.32  22.75   18.99
Short term                 13.20  15.82  19.20   24.20  22.98   18.80
Long Term                  15.00  16.45  19.93   23.80  24.28   19.66
SELECTED DOMESTIC INTEREST RATES
WAIR on Money Markets          11.09  13.68  15.68   17.99  17.60   10.57
MRR (All Maturities)            9.44  12.38  15.38  21.00   19.94   14.81
CB Reverse RP (Term)           11.64  13.11  14.61   12.65   13.65   10.94
T-BilIs (All Maturities)       12.89  15.51   19.68   24.74  22.49   17.01
Interbank Call Loans           11.96  14.24  15.36   14.82  15.66   16.69
IGLF LENDING RATES
DBPICB - PFI (Variable)
lstQtr.                    12.00  10.00  10.70   1t.50   19.90   17.60
2nd Qtr.                   12.00  10.00  10.70   14.00   19.90   15.40
3rd Qtr.                   10.20  10.00  11.50   18.00  17.60   13.70
4th Qtr.                   10.20  10.50  11.50   18.00  14.50   13.80
PFI - IE                     Market based - No ceiling on PFI's spread



66
Annex 4
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
HISTORICAL REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION
1987             19aa             1989             1990             1991             1992
REGIONS   Number Amount Number Amount  Number Amount Numoor Amount Numbor Amount Number Amount
1                4       3.0      5      10.0                        1      3.6       1      1.1      11     12.0
11                                2       5.5                        1      1.0       3     19.4       4     13.7
CAR                                1      0.2
III             24      39.2     64    129.3      55    174.0       64    1160       41    16.0       41    100.7
NCR             92    230.1    359  1,099.0    232    137.6    263  1,451.B    224    943.0    203    045.5
IV              10      12.3     42      90.0    -4a    103.2      04    128.5       65    124.9      72    141.8
V                4       t.3      3       3.2       4     14.1       S      3.8      14     19.2       0       6.S
VI                2      1la      10     18.8       0     10.1       5    174.0       a     230        3      5.9
Vil               9     19.3     36      83.4      37     77.7      39    120.6      35     96.3      23     77.5
Vill              1      2.0                                                                           1      4.5
IX                                                  I      2.0       a     28.4       1      6.0       a     41.9
X                9       4.9     22      53.3       6     16.8       7     18.8       a      L.a       2       5.7
Xi               2       2.8      8      19.7       1      0.1      19     43.6      12     43.6       4      0.1
Xii               1      t.0       3     16.1       2      4.1       1      0.4                        3      14.7
TOTAL    1t5      322.7    555  1,528.5    386  1.2           495  2.090.5    410  1.446.7    3T9  1.,t4.1
NOTE: Amounts in P'000,000
HISTORICAL REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION
BY AMOUNT OF PROJECTS
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1
0.9
o.a
0.7
0.5
0.5
0.4
0
1987         1966           1989          1990          1991          1992
tNCR    =               IV =       Vi          OTHERS



Annex 5
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
HISTORICAL LOAN SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION
1987               1988                 1989                1990               1991                 1992
Amount              Amounl              Amount              Amount              Amounl              Amount
Industry Class        Number (P'mIlIlon)   Number (P'mIlIlon)    Number (P'milion)   Number (P'mililon)   Number (P'miliIon)    Number (P'million)
BEVERAGES                                               I          0.8      3          5.5      0          0.0      2         13.5      2         14.0
CHEM. & CHEM. PRODS.                3          8.0     39        138.2    39         133.1     45        240.2    27         122.3     25        133.9
FOOD & FOOD PRODS.                 27         56.2     77        216.9    43         135.1     50        183.6    43         143.7     46        185.2
FOOTWEAR/APPAREL/GARMENTS          29         56.8    125        270.7    84         272.7     96        313.9    55          132.8    33         46.8    O
FURNITURE& FIXTURES                 9          13.3    35         6 69.7    31        39.1     36         81.7    21          82.3    24          61.4. -
HANDICRAFT. LEATHER &
LEATHER PRODS.                                         9         29.8      10        61.1     18         46.7     26         39.0     28         46.1
MACHINERYIAPPLIANCES
AND SUPPLIES                       8          7.5      13        40.9     12         29.0     12         37.8     16         50.7     16         93.5
METAL INDUSTRIES                    16        45.9    54         189.1     42        175.4    54         276.4    44         184.5     47        192.0
MISC. MANUFACTURERS/                                                                                                                               0.0
COTTAGEINDUSTRIES                 20         27.6     40         58.7     26         58.8     53        162.8    44         147.8    30         148.1
NON-METALLIC MIN. PRODUCTS          6          5.5     26         44.6     20         53.3    24          49.9    31          76.1     30         73.4
OTHER SERVICES                      8          7.9     20         31.7      8         21.5                          1          3.1      1          2.3
PAPER&PAPERPRODUCTS                 7         17.5      14        95.0      7         38.1     13        116.1      9         69.4     15        116.8
MINING INDUSTRIES                                                                               1          9.0      2          9.8      1          9.6
PRINTINGIPUBLISHINGIALLIED IND      9         28.2     19         23.8    24          58.2    20          67.3     28         61.2    25          84.4
RUBBER & RUBBER PRODUCTS            2         10.6    12          72.9      2         16.0      9         38.8     14         69.3     12         42.2
TEXTILES,CORDAGE&TWINE              3         25.0    21          90.9     20         81.0    26         14-.1     20        157.9      7         39.0
TRANSPORT STORAGE REPAIR                                8         36.3      6         28.0      7         35.4     14         17.7     18         31.9
TRANSPORT STORAGE & COMM.                                                                      16         69.4      5         30.9      8         28.5
WOOD&WOOD PRODS.                   11         12.7    42         118.5     17         33.8     15         46.5     10         34.6      9         28.4
Total                158        322.7   555       1,528.5   394       1,239.7   495       1,924.6   412       1,446.7    377      1,377.6
nn^""      ausn"^^XF  flfl  f-----l--  *-W=.   .S... *----    .... .-                  am=..= *-wonman w.s =W-.



Page I                                                                                                                                                                                   Ane.  t
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - LOAN 3035
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
ASOFDECEMBER31. 1t92
RANK IN                                                                                           :RANKIN    RANK IN
APPROVED       TERAMS OF                   :                                                                       TERU8 OF  TERMSoF
CLEAN       AMOUNT OF                                 NUMBER OF BRANClES PER REGION                              NO. OF      NO. OF
REV CREDIT       CREDIT                                         --RE                                                EGIONAL  TOTAL
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION                  (InMillIon P)    LINE        I    1  ,I   IV    v    VI   Vil            IX    x    )x   Xil  NCR  *.             ....... ERANCHES
COMMERCIAL BANKS
Allied Banking Coporatlon                                   750.0          la    a    3    6    4    4         a    9    3    6    a    9                31      De              7           a
Asian Bank Coiposalion                                      049.0          17                                  2                                         12      14
Boston Baik (Bank of Commaleo)                              899 0          1B                                                                            19      19                          2
Bank olihe PhilippIne Islands                               600.0          15   to      I   21   22       5    17   tt    7      5    7   24             98    228               3
Chinas Banking Coapoialion                                1.880.0           5     1           2           1          4                       4           18      30             I          I5
Equitable Banking Corposation                             1.944 0           4           2     1                      2     1                 2           30      381            17          13
FatEastBank&TwusICoinpany                                 2,079.0           1    5    2    9  1:   3    7    5            I    1    4    6              73     131             8           8
Motgopolita Bank&TrttCompany                              1,950.0           3    4    a    13   Ia    4    a    a    3    a    7    a    2    68                149              4           4              o
Philippine Bank of Communicallons                         1.6850            9     1                                 2                 I    1            18      22 l           1S          20
Philippine Comamoclal Internaltonal Bank                  1.850.0           a    is    5   18    9    10   22   17    4    2    7   29                  107    248               2           1
Rizal CommercICI Banking Coeporallon                      1.970.0           2    3      1    3    7       1    3    2    2       1           8          23      54              10          to
Solid Bank Coporatlion                                    1,704.0           a    2    2    2    4    3    2    4           t    I    1    4             30     658,                          9
The International Coapoxata Bank                            987.0          14     2     1    7            I    1    4                  1    1            19     37              13          14
Union Bank ol Ihv Philipph ca                             1.774.0           7           1    1           1    2    3       1    1           3           12      25             14           17
United Coconut Pianstrs Bank                              1,600.0          11    3    2    9   19    a    a   10           2    3    a    4    2    72         148              6-           5
Uiban Bank                                                                                                                                               l       b
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENTTlHRIFT BANKS
Asairust Dovelopment Bank                                   350.0          20     1                3                                                     4       j
BPI Agalcutulul eOvelopment Bank, Inc.                      200.0                                                                                       23      23                         1I
Capild Dovelopmenl Bank                                     125.0                                                                                       17      17
Dumagueto CIty Development Bank                              35.0                                                    1                 1                         2
Fitdr Powinclal Development bank                             14.0                             1                             .                                      i
Northern Mindanao Delopmant Bank                            100                         I                            1                3    4
PlanltersDevelopmtnt Bank                                 1.546.0          13          1I                                                                3      271 S.
Phemiee Doveipnt nBnk                                       175.0                                                                                       22      22                          1t
Sotdhetn Negros Development Bank                               5.0                                    .               6                                                         9.
PDCP Bank                                                   100.0                 I           I                2     1                       1           2    .;
Oucen CIty ODelopment Bank                                   250                                         1                                                       1



Page 2                                                                                                                                                                             Annex 6
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - LOAN 3038
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1992
RANK IN                                                                                      ..'RANKIN    RANK IN
APPROVED      TERMS OF                                  .                                        -             TERIMs oF  TERMS OF
CLEAN      AMOUNT OF                               INUMEiER OF BRANCHES PER REGION                           NO. OF      NO. OF
REV CREDIT   CREDIT                                                -                                             E -  --REGiONAL TOTAL
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION                (in Miilion P)    LINE       I    If   M    IV    V    VI   VII  VIII  IX    X    Xl   Xll  NCR  TOTAL    BRANCIIES BRANCHES
SAVINGS & MORTGAGE BANKs/SLAs
Banco de Oro Savings & Mortgage Bank                      50.00         19                                 2    3                                  45     SO11
BPI Family Savings Bank                                   200 0                5    I    5   14    3    6    e    3    3    4   12    2    67    124i                                  7
Farmeis Savings & Loan Assoclation                         29.7                                 1
FuLtune Savings , Loan Association                         41.8                                 1                                                   1       2
Lips Public Savings & Loan Asociatlon                      28 2                                                                                     1       1
Monre de Plbdad Savings * Loan Association                225.0                                 2                            1          1          12
Penallancla Savings * Loan AssociatIon                      9 2                                   .  I
SPECIALIZED GOVERNMENT BANKS                                                                                               - .                                                                  o
LandBankaolthePhillppinaes                              1280            10    6    3    a    6    2    3-   3    0    0    9                        6     43                         12
Philippine National Bank                                1.6000          12   1    11   23   22   12    7   14   li    7   lo    7    6    57              09              j3
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES                                                                                                                          !
AEA Developmenl coCporatIon                               100.0                                                                                     1        '
First Pacllic Capital Corporalion                        249 0                                                                                      '   .
Stale Investment House                                    120.0                1                           2    1                       1           3       S
RURAL BANKS
Ruial Bank of bean                                          30                                  1
Paltw  Bank of Meyceucyan. Inc.                             3.0                           1:                                                                I
Rural Bank ol Odlongan. Inc.                                4.0                           I    I                                                           2
Rural Bank of Pagoanian, Inc.                              13.0                                            1 
Rural Bank ol Pandl. Inc.                                   5.0                           1
Rual Bank of Paleoce. Inc.                                  2.0                           1                                                          -
Rutal Bankof Rang-Ay. Inc.                                 21.0                I 
RuPal Bank of San Juan. Inc.                               20.0
Ruml Bank ol Siesogon Inc.                                  I.5                                      1
TOTAL          30,06U.4               87   42  154  163: 5I  101  It7   45   30   67  126   12   900   1.901
............. ..=...............  ... ........ ... ....... ....                      ... ..... .......          .  ..      . .........
RANKASTONULABEROFBRANCHES                                          7   11    2    3    *    6    S   10   12    a    4   13             1



70
Annex 7
INDUSTRIAL LOAN AND GUARANTEE FUND
UST AND DESCRIPTION OF TRAININGS ATTENDED
COURSE                         BRIEF COURSE DESCRIPTION                  DURATION
CORE CREDIT MANAGEMENT    The CORE' of lending skills designed to provide           Six months
COURSE                        conceptual and analytical tools needed in
evaluating risks inherent in the credit process
of long term loans for all industries, techniques
in Identifying and managing these risks and a
synthesized perspective in assessing the
development impact ot loan proposals.
EXECUTIVE DEVELOPMENT         Encompasses the skills, tools and tasks required      One month
PROGRAM                        to ensure that wnat is desired in terms of
specitTc objectives is achieved. The program
includes courses on Decision MaKing. Strategic
Planning, PLOC. MIS, Career Planning, Pertormance
Appraisal and Work Simplicatlon.
MANAGEMENTTOOLS                Exposes participants to the concepts, tools and      Two weeks
techniques in classical optimization, mathematics
of investment and flnance, linear programming.
decision theories and forecasting techniques.
EitFECTIVE CUENT              Focuses on the principles ot effective client         Four days
RELATIONS                      relations. Exposes participants to various client
needs and expectations and equips them with the
appropriate treatment steps and communication
skills in handling problem situations.
PRINCIPLES OF                 This is an advanced course on development banking     Two weeks
DEVELOPMENT BANICNG            using various methodologies in presentations and
discussions. It deals more extensively with the
concepts and principles ot development banking.
lunctions of each department and direction of DBP
as a lead development bank.
SEMINAR WORKSHOP FOR          This is an international seminarlworkshop designed    One month
ACCOUNT OFFICERS              to provide account ofricers with new developmental
banking approaches to risk management, credit
evaluation, loan packaging, and project supervision
It introduces the account officership concept of
handling credit management.
LECTURE SERIES ON             The course was developed along the theme I How to     Series ot
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT          Attain Sustainable Human Development'. Lectures       Half-day
dealt on concepts and example on human               Seminar
development as guiding points for the economy.



71
Amex 8
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL GUARANTEE AND LOAN FUND
PROJECT CONPLETION RWORT
LOAN 3138-PHI
INSTITUTIONAL CHART
w   w1
IGLF REUIEW COMMITTEE
EN A)*         BUS?          DTI             DOT          UP-ISSI          DE?
SECRETARY   'ED.GO ENMR    U/SECRETARY   ACG. SIC.         DIRECtOR       FIG HEAD
CHAIRmN    VICE CNAIRiNH I        ER         mUER       I      ER        EX-OTTICiO
I                      I              I                    -. 
IGLF TECHNICAL ADVISORYi GROUP
KEDIIR         B S?          DTI   ~         DOTR       2Pis              onIR  4IlR
3 M1       2      ERS 2      OT2 IP 2 u- lESSI                         D4 P
FIG - DIP
P      IG



72
Annex 9
IJDUSTRIAL GURflHTE AND LOAN FUND
PROJECT COHFLET ION WfORT
LOAN 3938-PHI
DPP ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
ce              lce  f t
Corporate                          Internal
Secre ta                            Rud tor
te a
Crrte             Han                              Strati          Industrial
Rf A            esource                           Planning         bsearch
Cnter           tter                              Center           Center
Tnst~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Invistwnt   ..        ..-.
VA tte
|CreditPolicsj |        t                                          Office f the
~~s~on   Lani
s Suerision  1 I  bthods                                            & Iegal CounsIl
RersouBrce                     O  perations  |M lar et ng|
SectQ                             etor               Sector                  t
II~F
Cptal              ctg1          nutra-         Financ a      InstitutionalI F         rr
Tre  HarletsI I   iLcans        I    tive        I Insit utions      Rnking    I  ntuuial   I
IG  roup I    Sergicing            Services                                                R VGrup   I   Rng



73
Auex 18
INDUSTRIAL QUARANTZE AND LOAN ;UND
PRJECT COIIPIETION RIORT
LOAN 3G30-PHI
PMD  II-FIG OlRGANIZATIONAL CHART
DE. 1. E5SUV12
FUL7/-27
G. CAPULONG
Encoder Ili/
TOTAL NO. OF POSITIONS   22
IC. ICUPI
Computer
OpIrlitr II/
a. s. GDIRS                               C. C. 2RPST05                               G. C. GALVAH
A. DEL MORO                                 E. OtHALO                                   T. MAL
Conputer                                   Conputer                                   Conputer
Operator 11/                               Operator [J/                               Operator if/
IrI I           .                           I                              m I m
1. TWADA              A. RGQikItO            F. LIN               R. CAAMKBAS         A. IRCILONH             M. tEtALTA
AO/6-2J3        r       5/G-25              SIi-25                                  LCC Il/               AW/-2Z
R. GARCIA             J. SILA                J. DOTE             0. DU|  CRcuZ        N. HIHGOH               C. IAJAR
AOA/Gr-22              ACA/G-z3              Sfl/G-2S              LCD HI/l            Computtr               Conputer
6r-iS          Operator II/            Operator It/
IData~
lEncoder  II/1
| -LiL



74
#0LA4A(4..    -        REPUBLIC OF TNE PHILPPINES
I*.^             KAGAWARAN NG KALAKALAN AT INDUSTRIYA
(Departmnent of Trade and Industry)
hi&1    /.^35  BUREAU OF SMALL AND MEDIUM BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
3rd Floor, WIPI Building
349 Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue
Makad, Metro Manila, Philippines 3117
Cable Addrt: DTI                                   TeLNos.818-9111
Telex: 14830 M PS                                  P.O. Box 2303, Makati Commacdal Cea
45466 MOTPS                                                     3 
45467 MOTPS
July 25, 1994
MS. REBECCA CANDOY SEKSE
Industry and Energy Operation Division
Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region
The World Bank
Washington D.C., U.S.A
Dear Ms. Sekse,
We are furnishing you herewith the needed data for the Project
Completion Report of the Fourth Small and Medium Industries Project
(Japanese Grant No. 24630).
We apologize for the delay.  We hope this will suffice your
requirement.
Thank you and warm regards.
Very Truly yours
ZC  LA  } RO-ELEVADO
D: ector, BSMBD



75
Duty Drawback/Exemption Schemes
(DDS/DES)
The Bureau of Export Trade Promotion (BETP) modified the
design of theme schemes to further improve and expand the coverage
through the;
a)   Creation of the One-Stop-Shop Inter-Agency Tax Credit and Duty
Drawback Center.
The primary objective of the Center in to provide
mecharism and phyeical facility for bringing together the
representatives of different government agencies concerned
with properly defined and distinct role. to play in the
execution of the Duty Drawback/Exemption Schemes and programs.
With the establishment of the Center, the overlapping
functions of the various agencies directly and indirectly
involved with the processing of duty drawbacks and tax credit
certificate have been redefined and realigned.  Likewise, a
uniform/standard scheme with simplified guidelines and
procedures am well as acceptable met of documentary
requirements including the use of standard rates for some
products in place.
In addition, processing time of tax credits and duty
drawbacks has been shortened to thirty (30) vorking days and
has been simplified further to safeguard the system for abuse,
including the occurrence of undue claims.   Furthermore, the
Center in envisioned to improve its accessibility and increase
its ooverage to include indirect exporters.
b)   Standardization of the Formula of Manufacture (PON)
The task of promulgating and certifying the Standard
Formula of Manufacture (SFM) vas vested to the Industrial
Technology Development Institute (ITDI). Specific Objectives
attained include:



76
o    Harmonization  of  previously  issued  Formula  of
Manufacture (FOP) for 5,532 products;
o    Training  of  ITDI  staff  and  other  technical
personnel of other DDS agencies in the promulgation
of the SFM;
o    Databasing of the FOX for easy access,  retrieval
and review;
o    Formalization  of  the  organization  of  the  SFM
network responsible for promulgating, certifying
and updating the SFM;
o    Publication of the SFM Handbook; and
o    Acquisition of additional data processing equipment
and software.
In addition, the Standard Rates Committee (STARCOM) was
created by the Executive Committee on August 10, 1990.
STARCOM was crested in the One-Stop-Shop Inter-Agency Tax
Credit and Duty Drawback Center and tasked with the following
functionst
o    Conduct  a  continuing  review,  update,  revision,
formulation and maintenance of standard rates for
approval by the Executive Committee.
o    Study   and   recommend   the   formulation   and
implementation of nev standard rates or standard
formula of manufacture identified by the Executive
Committee.
o    Recommend to the Executive Committee, the industry
sectors where the creation of new standard rates
:re n-eded.
o    Prepare and update list of export products eligible
to apply for tax credit under a standard tax credit
or duty drawback scheme.
o    Recommend  rules,   regulations,   guidelines   and
procedures, including but not limited to, the
creation of various sub-committees under its
control   and  supervision,   for  the  effective-
implementation of the provisions of this resolution
for promulgation by the Executive Committee.
To date, the STARCOh had organized eleven (11) meetlngs
focusing mainly with the reviev of newly established or
updated standard rates for different export products in the
following *ectors;
o    Agro/Forest Based
o    Chemicals
o    Construction and ?Electronics
o    Metals and Engineering
o    Wearable



77
c)   Nicrocomouter Systems Develooment
Reaults of the installation of a computerized systems for
the operation of Board of InvestmFnt (BOI), Garments and
Textile Export Board (GTEB), and ITDI, the processing time
involved in the approval of application of exporters for
export clearances, tax credits, duty drawbacks, and/or FOK has
been significantly minimized.
d)   On-the-Job (OJT) of Department Of Finance (DOF) Personnel
The training wan conducted last May 18, 1993 to August
30, 1993 and aimed to equip DOF personnel with functions of
setting-up standard rates. The training van composed of the
following components;
a)   Actual Computation - applies to export products for
which no rates has been established. This function
include, the audit of documents, verifying standard
usage,. current prices of raw materials and the
prevailing foreign exchange rates, and computing
the duty paid, Value Added Tax (VAT) paid, and
other allowable expenses.
b)   Updating - applies to export products for which
standard rates have already been established and
needs  updating  to  make  them  realistic.    This
includes the monitoring the variables which form
part of the rebate like the prices of raw materials
and  the  current  foreign  exchange  rate  and
ascertaining whether there is a need to revise the
rates.   Following the BOI guidelines,  rates are
monitored/verified   every   three   months   and,
subsequently, updated/revised whenever there is a
plus or minus five (5X) percent change that
occurred in the said variables vithin the specified
period.
c)   Industry  Familiarization  -  involves  conducting
plant    visits    to    several    BOI-regi-tered
firms/exporters claiming tax credit for products
for which standard rates have been or are being
established.  This will allow the trainees to be
well-acquainted with the production aspect of the
different industries such that they will be capable
of detecting deviation or irregularities in the
documents submitted by the firm if they are to
compute the rates independently later on.



78
Trade Information Services
The objective of the Trade Information Component Project which
is to improve access by the export community to r-levant trade
information has been achieved with the acquisition of trade
information materials which provided the export community
particularly the small and medium exporters and export planners
vith current, up-to-date information vital in the preparation and
conduct of their market studies. The SMI IV Grant hae made it
possible for BETP, PDDCP and Philexport libraries to max-mize the
kind of service they render to their export clientele by making
available to them a wide variety of trade materials,  such as
foreign trade statistical reports, tariff code., journals and other
trade related books and studies which before the Grant, was
difficult to acquire in view of the cost they entailed.
Product Specialist Program (PSP)
The Product Specialist Program (PSP) started last May 1990.
Participants of the program kere based on the recommendations of
different DTI Regional Offices as well as chambers and
organizations.   A total of nine (9) Product Specialist, one (1)
Product Strategist, and two (2) Merchandising Consultants were
hired/contracted for a period of fifty two (52) months.   Please
refer to Table I for the accomplishments of the respective
Specialist/Consultants.
The program was able to enlighten the ideas of the regional
manufacturers  in the  field of design  and  standards  that  are
acceptable to the target market.   Existing Product quality and
designs of regional manufacturerB with export experience or
considered export ready were improved and upgraded by adopting new
concepts    and    technologies    provided    by    the    Product
Specialist/Consultants.   The  program were  able to  assist the
folloving sectors
1.   Gift and Housewares
2.   Toys and Novelties
3.   Fashion Accessories
4.   Bags and Leather Goods
5.   Artificial Plants and Flowers
6.   Furniture and Furnishings



79
The Domestic Fairs Program
The Market Encounter Program otherwise known as the Domestic
Fair  Component  is  a  trade  development  program  aimed  at
strengthening the domestic base as support to export development
and  also  to   provide   market   linkages   between   supplier-,
inatitutional buyers, and exporters.
The program has actually overtook its target of nine (9)
Regional Fairs and six (6) Island Fairs.  For the period of 1990-
1994, a total of twenty two (22) Trade Fairs were conducted, broken
down to eight (8) Island Fairs and fourteen (14) Regional Fairs.
Cumulatively, 1,592 manufacturers-exhibitors from fifteen (15)
regions participated in the fairs, and a total of 4,766 buyers,
they are either exporters/ export traders, merchandisers, and/or
foreign buyers.  The fairs  were able to generate a total sales of
P575.336 million, broken down by type of sales transaction into:
Cash Sales                 P  23.683 M           4%
Booked Orders                166.202 M           29%
Sub-Total                  P 189. 885 M          33%
Orders under Nego            385. 451 M          67X
TOTAL                      P 575.336 M
= ==s=s====e
On the average each fair generated P30.281 M and each
exhibitor P.361M
COST SHARING SCHEME
The cost sharing scheme was prove to be effective in ensuring
the commitment  of each exhibitor.   Due to this,  we gradually
increased the exhibitors share through the years of implementation.
The scheme also minimized the incidence of fall-outs and promoted
a better outcome of every fair.



80
Pre-shipment Guarantee Scheme
a)   ImDlefentation of the Pre-shisment Finance Guarantee (PEFG)
Proax-am,
E.m
The PEFG was launched on 30 September 1991 when the Master
Guarantee Agreements (MGAs) with six participating financial
institutions were signed. The program's maih thrust is to imptove
SMEs' access to credit and was envisioned to expand the role
PHILGUARANTEE will play in export finance.
First Washington Associates,  Inc. (FWA) designed a two-part
PEFO scheme to cover both new- to-export or beginning exporters and
the more experienced ones.  In consultation with PHILGUARANTEE's
operations staff and Legal Department as well as with prospective
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIn), it also prepared the
Guarantee Agreement to document the PEFG, various forms, a Lender's
Guide and an Operating Manual.
Since the program's inception a total of forty five (45) small
and medium-sized firms have been guaranteed under the program. One
hundred thirteen (113) loan guarantee requests (LGRs) have been
received and processed up to March 31, 1994. Of these, 79 LGRs or
69.9X were approved.
Guarantees issued from 1991 up to the first quarter of this
year reached P150. 41 M. So far, the highest level of issuances was
recorded in 1993 at P75.391 M. Last  year's (1993) performance
however is expected to be exceeded by this year's issuances since
for the period January to March 1994 alone, guarantees issued
already reached P30.27 M. Meanwhile, as of March 31, 1994,
guarantees outstanding amounted to P87.896 M. This figure in
expected to go higher due to the increasing number of guarantee
issuances.
PHILGUARANTEE's contribution to the export sector is shown by
the guaranteed firms' record of exports generated. As of December
31, 1993, PEFG clients' export revenues amounted to *8. 385 M. From
a low *1.6 M in 1991, export earnings steadily increased to 01.730
n in 1992 and *5. 055 h in 1993.
Also, noteworthy   to mention is the PEFG's contribution to
employment generation.  The forty   five    firms guaranteed by
PHILGUARANTEE since 1991 employed a total of 41,084 workers. These
workers include office and factory employees and the firms'
subcontractors.



81
A. to the number of claims from PHILGUARANTEE's accredited
banks, out of the forty five firms guaranteed under the program,
only three were in default, for which PHILGUARANTEE advanced P1.48
M or 0.98% of guarantees isued. 
b)   Technical Assistaence for Trainina and Karketina
Trainina
The training grant financed the following activities/ coursesi
1.   Overseas training in export credit agencies (ECAs) for
four (4) Operations Group officers from June 3-17, 1992.
This consisted of a briefing at the California Export Finance
Office (CEFO) in Los Angeles from June 4-5, a four-day seminar at
the U.S. EXIMBANK in Washington, D.C., from June 8-11, a one-day
course on guarantee programs at First Washington Associates, Ltd.
(FWA) in Arlington,  Virginia on June 12 and a  briefing at the
Foreign Credit Insurance Agency (FCIA) Management Co. in Nev York
City on June 15.   The training program afforded PHILGUARANTEE
officials the opportunity to be acquainted with the guarantee
programs of U.S. and other overseas ECAs as well as relate the
features of these programs to PHILGUARANTEE's own Preshipment
Export  Finance  Guarantee  (PEFG)  Program.    The training  also
provided them with working knowledge of EXIMBANK operations and
programs, information which would be valuable relative to the
possible creation of a Philippine EXIMBANK.
2.   Local training conducted by the Ateneo-BAP  Institute  of
Banking ' on 'The Financial Discipline Underlying Export
Guarantees to Moderate Risk, Enhance Commercial Viability and
Promote Foreign Exchange Earnings.
The seminar was conducted over a period of ten (10) Saturdays
beginning 12 September 1992 to 21 November 1992. Twenty two (22)
participants from various         Department. within PHILGUARANTEE
completed the whole-day sessions.  The seminar provided officers
and line staff with a preview of financial markets and instruments
and upgraded their banking and credit evaluation skills. Special
attention was given to international banking operations and trade
financing as well as remedial accounts management specifically
suited to export guarantees.
A consortium of At-neo de Manila University Graduate
School of Business and Bankers Association of the
Philippines (BAP).



82
3.   Local training in Information Systems and Technology conducted
by the U.P. Engineering Research and Development Foundation,
Inc. (UPERDFI) for PHILGUARANTEE management held on June 9,
11, 16 and 18, 1993 at the Corporation's offices.
This seminar gave management an overview of today's emerging
technologies in the area of information and introduced the various
computerization tools for particular uses.   Managers and other
senior officers benefitted from learning about the various
information systems, matters which were hitherto relegated to line
staff.
4.   Training sessione conducted by First Washington Associates,
Ltd. as part of the consultancy services under SKI IV:
a.   Introduction   to   Preshipment   Working   Capital
Guarantees
b.   Marketing the ECA's Services
c.   Underwriting Short Term Exporter Credit Risk
The three training sessions provided the newly reorganized
Operations  Group  the  skills  necessary  for  the  successful
implementation  of the  PEFG  Program.   FWA carefully  selected
oonsultants who are seasoned in each area to impart theoretical
knowledge as well as present real-life cases for a "hands-on'
approach, which honed the participants' skills for day-to-day
management of the Program.
Karketina
1.   The short course on marketing mentioned above  (harketing the
ECA's Services) covered the following areass
a.   Targeting Users
b.   Organizing Staff
C.   Budgeting
d.   Using the Tools of the Trade
e.   Development of a Market Plan
Prior to this, the FWA marketing specialist assigned to assist
in the promotional and marketing aspects of the PEFG and to conduct
the seminar had the chance to meet with the Marketing Manager and
with representatives of government and private organizations to
help plan the public information aspects of the PEFG launching as
v-ll as assess the local media market for preparation of a 5- year
marketing plan.



83
His inputs were very useful and have helped shape the
activities and direction of the Promotions and PR Division.
2.   Marketing Tools and Equipment Procured Through DTI Savings
($10,000):
The equipment purchased under this grant consisted of:
a.  1   386  Personal Computer Syz em - MITAC brand
b.  1   Uninterruptible Pover Supply - Wilson brand
c.  1   Color Ink Jet Printer - Hewlett Packard brand
d.  1   Color Flatbed Scanner - Hewlett Packard brand
e.  1   Computer Printer  - Epson brand
i.  Accessories for the 386 MITAC computer:
12 MB Random Access Memory (RAN)
16 KB Cache Hemory
The above desktop publishing equipment have proven to be very
useful for in-house production of various information materials
such an primers, brochures, advertising materials (for newspapers
and special occasions),  newsletters and the like for general
circulation   an   well   as   transparencies   for   audio-visual
presentations (e.g. briefing sessions). Using the above equipment,
PHILGUARANTEE has also produced a camera- ready draft of its Annual
Report (for 1992) and hopes to eventually print future Annual
Reports in-house, once the printing capabilities of these equipment
are fully explored.
This equipment  grant  has enabled PHILGUARANTEE  to  print
information materials readily and in a shorter time than before,
such that marketing its programs is rendered more effective and
expeditious.
One-Stop Export Documentation Center
The  One-Stop   Export  Documentation  Center (OSEDC) is a
showcase processing service facility under the supervision of the
Department of Trade and Industry (DTI).  OSEDCs were established
with the aim of eliminating the causes of delay, red tape and
cumbersome export procedures to accelerate export growth.
OSEDC brings under the convenience of one-roof, government
agencies involved in the processing and approval of export
documentation which includes export and commodity clearances and
certificates.



84
In order to further facilitate document processing at the
DSEDCu, the Bureau of Export Trade Promotion (BETP) of DTI embarked
on the computerization of the Centers with the assistance extended
by the World Bank.  The project consisted of technical services,
like  the  preparation  of  feasibility  study,  procurement  of
equipment, and the development of the computer-based eystem for
processing and monitoring.
ACCOMPLISHMENTS WERE:
A.   Assessment and streamlining of the procedural operations
of the OSEDCs in Manila, Baguio, Cebu, Davao and Cagayan
de Oro.
B.   Provided the exporters and other end-users of the OSEDC
an acceptable, timely, sustainable service level in the
processing of documents.
C.   Developed databases for the attached government agencies
of the OSEDC and other appropriate government and private
organizations involved in exports for easier monitoring
of performance.
D.   Trained selected personnel of each Center on the use of
personal  computers,  a  word  processing  program,   a
spreadsheet   package,   fundamentals  of   a  database
management package, and the computerized system developed
for   processing   of  documents   and  monitoring   of
performance.
OUTCONE OF OPERATION
A.   Economic Impact
1.   Due to the computerization of OSEDCs,  an average
annual increase of 8. 5X on the volume of documents
processed was noted. In 1993, OSEDCs proceassd 24X
of total Philippine exports.
2.   Computerization enables work to be accomplished
efficiently at a shorter time. Processing time vas
reduced by 5 minutes per document.
3.   Errors  are minimized. The system is faster than
filling up forms with a typewriter, thus, making
the staff more productive and could attend to other
tasks.
4.   All reports are encoded in the computer making
retrieval of data easier.
5.   Computerization  provides  access  from  other  DTI
offices with similar networking system.



85
B.   Social/Attitudinal Effect
Enhanced professionalism/confidence among staff due to
use of computer technology.
FINDINGS/LESSONS LEARNT
A.   Computerization eased off the clerical loads of OSEDC
staff, particularly, filling up of export documentc.
B.   Services are now efficiently rendered to time-conscious
clients.
DTI EQUIPMENT COMPONENT
Thin Component is aimed at upgrading the existing facility of
the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), so that it can improve
and expand its services especially the export-oriented sector. The
folloving equipments were purchsed:
3    units      Mitsubishi L-300 Van (AUY)
9    sets       Micro Computers
-   units       Computer Modems
-   units       Citizen Dot matrix Printer
11   units      Auto Volt Regulator.
4    units      Push carts
2    units      Hewlett Packard Laserjet Printer
1    unit       Sony Handy Camera
1    unit       Magnabyte Computer projection panel
1    unit       Computer Digitizer
I    unit       Fax Machine
I    unit       Lot Antenna
1    unit       Horizon Paper Cutting Machine
I    unit       Panasonic Audio System
I    unit       Punch and Bind Machine
1    unit       Overhead Projector
I    unit       Adding Machine
The above equipment specifically the computers and computer
accessories  (i.e.  modems,  AVR,  etc. ) were  installed  at  the
different DTI offices in support to the DTIVs thrust in networking
information   databases   to   improve   the   accessibility   and
communication.
Tvo (2) of the L-300 van was also distributed to the Regional
offices to improve their mobility, while the remaining equipments
were generally used in improving the services of BSMBD, BDTP, DTI-
FMS,    and    PDDCP    through    Technology    Transfer,
Training/Seuinars/Workshops, and Market linkages for the export-
oriented sector.



TABLE 1
I      NA:70 -;0; --;-0--00  . 0: - 0 ! 0 1  :; 1  '-5 0    i I     -~        WV         : :1::      :Cf 'l:    -  :';  '' '70>'0 "0 l:: l'T-h i;"   'i''"          "    '  '0'0.'. ..''
1. Philp Cutler                    Furniure (rattan, wki er,   a) July 9 to                  1.        Fi'nt viLtb - evaluation of specific prohilns, design needs, nd requirements and product development rtntegies
and bamb_   furniture)      Aug.17,1990                  2.        Conulmnqcy for the Cebu International Furnitur Fair
b) SepL.26 to
Nov.5,1I1
c) Ja.13 to                   3.        Furnikre Sannhars on Market & Marketing Trends at Cebu, Fianpanp, nd Mania
Mar.1s,19m2
il) Oct. to
iNov 1992
2. Conrad                           Specil Finishes           a) June 29 to                  1.        Cosnltancy for lhe knprovemnent or existing designs and update product quality througih he introduction of new techniques and
Capacio                          (Furniture and               Aug.15,1991                            te&.oigy on reisise.
Furnskinp and for Gifs
md Housewar)
b) Oct.6 to                   2.        Counimey for IProduction Planning and Control Schemcne
Nov.5,1991
c) Jan.23 to                  3.        Consultancy for the 'SURFACES: Treatment, Textures, & Details" Exhibit.
Mar.1,1992
d) May 20 to                  4.         ieveleped a Trend Baok on Furhing.
AugS15,194
3. Ederd Frank                      Furitre and Furnxlure      a) Sept. 16 to                 1.       Consultancy for the Development of Furniture and Furniture Accessories in Mindano.                                   00
A    cc                     Oct.1,192                                                                                                                                                   0
I                   ~~~~~~~b) Now.4 toI
L                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dec16,1 -2
4. Mildred                          Gir and Homne Decor        a) Aug. 1 to                   1.        Consuitatm for the Conceptuallation and Formulation of a stratey ror gift and hoen dear products frrm Ube Phdlippines to
lacovetti                                                     Oct.26,1"1                             tlhe U.S.
b) Mar.7 to                   2.        Consulbancy for the 30 'FAME' partkipants for the 'Manla Fame'
Junel.2,1992
S. i artin Mariey                   Furniture and Furnishinp    a) Oct.20 to                  1.        Product Spedalist for Market Trends Furniture and Furnihings Msrket Week.
Dec.14,1990                  2.        ConsuJtaicy for the evaluation of Market Trends and gpve necessary inputs for development of fair partidpants.
b) Jan. 7 to                  3.        Conaeulany for new approaches in Material Manipulation tehnique, handling and Ilni hing for Gifts and llousewures.
Feb.14,1991
C) Sept23 to
Od.29,1S1
d) Feb. I to                   4.       Developed a sirtep ror basket products to optinsize extend tUe rUe of a detin from 2-3 years.
Apr.10, - 2
*1 Ja. 16 to
Feb, 1993
6.S Db  Boillon                   |Ginfa ad       rewa        Ma) My 22 to                   I          Product Specilid for Gifts & H1u1wwr using sal indigenu materabi av*iihb  is tie lbippptnes.
Jul 22,1N                     2         Cnducted Sembiars on Product Devdepnt Sratnjes.



7. Sandra                              Artifici ' Pinnu  nd         a) July 2 to                      1.        Product Specialist for Artificial Plants and Flowers and related products.
Holbrook                             Flowers                       Sept.2,11990                    2.         Conducted seninars to FAME participants providing them the market and design diredion, nd new ways of using indigenus
Oct.20, 1990
c) Nov.23 to
Dl)ec.7 1990
S. Bryan Desmond                       Gifls, Toys and              a) Jan.7 to                       1.        Product Specialst for the 13th Manila FAME Gifls, Toys and Housewares Week giving guidance on internationally developed
Leech                                Housewares                    Apr.28,lSIO                                products and/or development of new products.
b) Aug. 19 to                    2.         Conducted serin of seminars on the latest designs and color treads for 67 manufacturers. Development of indivdual product
Sept.25,1991                               lines were made hased on up to date market requirements.
c) Feb.16 to                     3.         Consultancy for the Philippine Toy Design Program. lIe provided for the development of design strategies for toy
Apr. 16, 1992                  -           manufacturers and identifla(ion of specinlc design direction.
d) Jan.16 to                     4.         Conducted an ixhibit featuring the results of the toy development program.
Feb.22, 193                     5.         Evaiated aid consulted with the participating companies to review wmples of product developed and made follow-up action for
further dvelopmnt.
9. Carmen                              Leathr Goods and La) May 11 to                                 1         Product Specialist for Leather goods and Fashion Accessories.
Chesneu                              Fashion Accessories          June 23.1993                     2.         Analyzed the non-apparel personal accesories, leather goods, bags and footwear.
9.______Carmen___________ather  _________Goods__________and____ J 3.        Identified asid validated alteriiatlie product developimtent strategits or direclions.
10. Julin Jenki Ji  Design Consultaut                               a) Sept.6 to                   | 1.         Caoaaultant ror Ute caluallon of curmrt desigia acliviics or tle l'moduct li opemelnu,t aiid Design Celter of tle l'hilippbe
(Evaluate current design     Oct.S, 1"92                                 ('l)DDCP).
aiktie of the Product                                         2.         Developed a Framework for conducting studies on design pradties for PDDCP's designers.
Devdelpment and Desg
Center of the Pblpptn_)                                                                                                                                                                                 00
| t  Gerald Tyler                      Product Strtegit             a) Nov.S to                       I         Product Strategist for the review and aessement of the Produd Specialift Program (PSP).
Dec.9, 1990                     2.        Prepared a development plan of the design scrvices sector detailing the role of PDDCP in upgrading and expanding market
b) Aug.5 to                                 oriented design serv  and in raising an awareness of design.
l0, 191                         3.        Develped a strategy identifying the strength and weaknesses of craft-based industries vi-a-vis market trends.
c) June 14 to                    4.         Estlabiebed regionalprove,ial product identifeation which the region can sustain as a nmrketing proposal.
IS, 1992                        5.        Identified specific needs and preferences of product winners to maldnize assistance gives.
d) Nov.11 to
27, IUb                                                                                                                                 _
12. Deedahi                            Morehedlsing Caito_t    a) Mr.19 to                           I         Conmilant to assist CrTlEM in the partIcipation to the Scene D' Interiuer Exhibit.
|    S er                                                          June 12                         1          Identied the products and cemnpanis wh I h3al exhibit and developed the said products to standard whicb defuis the high-
1992                                      ieP
3         Overal remit of our partkipation in this tfir was exelent. The PhilUppine booth was sawrded one of the four SPECIAL
iMENlliON Awards hI additimn to the three major awards.



88
FROM;WORLD BANK HO USA         TO:        632 GiS 2234    MAR _-. 1994  5:14PM  #976  F.02
THE VORLD BANX
Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.
Tclephono (202) 477-1234 * Fax (202) 477-6391 * Telex RCA 248423
FACSI(ILE
Date:          February 28, 1994             No, of Pages:      3               >4t
TO:            Mr. Ernesto M. Ordonez
Title:       lUndersecr.cary
Organization:                              D-;
Fax No.:                                   815-2234
City/Country:                              Manila, Philippines
FROM:          Rebecca Candoy Sekse          Division's Fax:        (202) 477-2743
Title:       Industry and Energy Operations Division
Department 1, East Asi* and Pacific Region
Telephone:   (202) 458-0469                Division Room: D8-051
Div. Cod.:  EA&IE                          Division No.:  254-30
SUBJECT/
REFERENCE:     PHILIPPINES - SHI IV Project (Loan 3038-PH)
Project Completion Report
Dear:
We are in the process of preparing our Project Completion Report for
the SKI IV Project, and it would be of great help to us to obtain your views
on the value, as you now percelve, of the different technical assistance
cotponents vhich DTI  managed.  The components in questions are:
1.   The Duty Drawback and Duty Exemption Schemes (DDS/DES)
(a)  modification of the design of these schemes to improve the
coverage in line with the needs of all exporters,
particularly to SMI's and indirect exporters;
(b)  simplification of the DDS/DES operational procedures and
adopting a technically efficient control mechanism;
(c)  improvement of technical efficiency by adopting
standardized formulas of manufactures;
(d)  whether the hardware and software financed under this
Project has sufficiently mat the requirements to
standardize the formulas of manufaccure and to ccnputerize
the DDS/DES operation; and
(e)  if the trainlng and technical assistance provided to the
different agencies improved the DOS/DES and BMW operation,
standardization of formulas of manufacture, setting fixed
rates for DDS, and reconciliation (liquidation) of imported
inputs and expore producrs.



89
FROM:WORLD BANK HQ USA          TO:        632 615 2234     MAR 23. 1994  5:15mM  2976  P.03
- 2 -                            February 28, 1994
2.   Trade Information Services                                     2       S3
(a) Improvement in BETP's library servico; (b) adequacy of
computer equipment, provided under this Project, to BETP's
overseas services; and (c) particulars of the overseas
offices, and the extant to which the benefits occurring to
them that can be perceived by DTI.
3.   The Project Specialist Proiect
(a) Improvement In the subseceors, particularly in zerms of
exports: and (b) the operation of the cost-sharing program and
its effectiveness.
4.   The Domestic Fairs Program
(a) The six Island Fairs (two per year) and the nine Regional
Fairs (three per year) were expected to be held, and these took
place; (b) whether these fairs have had any Impact on exports;
and (c) if the cost-sharing schedule proved effective.
5.   Pre-Shipment Guarantee Scheme (Philguarantee)
(a) Effectiveness/impact of the pro-shipment guaran:ee scheme
implemented by Philquarantee; and (b) offectivenesr of the
technical assistance provided under SKI IV in the area of
training and marketing.
6.   One-Stop Export Documentation Center
(a) Effectiveness of the technical assistance to design
computerizarion of OSEDC in various cities; (b) adequateness of
equipment supplied; and (c) impact as well as operational
experiences with implementation.
It would be of special help If relevant quantitative data could be
included in your note e.g. the number of SMIs who accessed the DDS/DES 12
months before the program under the Project was completed and the number
during the following 12 months after the Project was completed, and similarly
for the other items above.
We are also interested to ascertain the overall impact of the
training programs of DTI staff and the usefulness of the equipment purchased
(i.e. three vehicles) under the Project.
Your comments would be most useful to us in finalizing our report.
We would greatly appreciate your cooperation in furnishing us with the
relevant data and hope to receive the above as soon as possible.



90
FROM:WORLD BANK HQ USA          To:        632 815 2234     MAR 23, 1994  5:15PM  $976  P.04
- 3 -                            February 28, 1994
We look forward to hearing from you.                                  z   8
Yours Sincerely,
Rebecca CZdL  y Sokse
Industry and Energy Opertaiotis Division
Department I, East Asia Region
copled to:   Kr. Cesar gautista
Undarsecretary, DTI, International Trade Croup



91
PHILIP?PI\N-S
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELC?MENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJ ECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.   Relaced Bank Loans
Loan                                                        Year of
No.                  Project Description                   Approval   Status
0998   Industrial Investmenc Credit Projecc                   1974      Closed
1120   Small & Medium Industries Dev. Projecc                 1975      Closed
1190   2nd Industrial Investment Credit Project               1975      Closed
1572   3rd Induscrial Investment Credic Project               1978      Closed
1727   2nd Small & Medium Induscries Dev. Projecc             1979      Closed
1903   Scruccural Adjustmenc Loan                             1980      Closed
1984   Industrial Finance Project                             1981      Closed
2127   Texcile Seccor Restructuring Project                   1982      Closed
2169   3rd Small & Medium Industries Dev. Project             1982      Closed
2266   2nd Struccural Adjustment Loan                     j   1983      Closed
2787   Economic Recovery Program Loan                         1987      Closed
2956   Program for Government Corporations                    1988      Closed
3049   Financial Sector Adjustmenc Program                    1989      Closed
3084   Manila Power Distribution Projecc                      1989      Active
3123   Industrial Investmenc Credic Projecc                   1989      Closed
3287   Industrial Restructuring Project                       1991      Active
3312   Coctage Enterprise Finance Project                     1991      Closed
3523   Telephone System Expansion Project                     1991      Active



92
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2.   Project Time Table
Item                     Date Planned         Date Actual
First Presented to the Bank
Preparation
Appraisal Mission                        October 1988        October 1988
Negotiations                             February 1989       February 1989
Board Approval                            April 1989          April 1989
Loan Signature                              May 1989            May 1989
Effective Date                                                 July 1989
Project Completion                                           October 1992
Loan Closing                             December 1994       October 1992



93
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3.   Loan Disbursements
Annual Basis                 Cumulative Basis
Estimated        Actual        Estimated        Actual
1990                12.3-          36.1            12.3            36.1
1991                19.0            18.4           31.3            54.5
1992                23.3            5.5            56.6            60.0
1993                 5.6                           60.0



94
PHILIPPINqES
FOURTH SHALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
Table 4.   Total Proiecc Costs
Foreign
exchange
as X of
P.illilon                       USS MlilLion               total
Local      Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total
IOLF Credit Coai.onent                A 173.0    3 424.0    7 597.0        195.0        160.0   355.0            *5 1
rrzo:t Conponent                         23 6         3'.2        57A e        - t                  2 7          59 o
Duty Drawbeck (DDS)                     86           8.5        17.1       0.4          0.4       0.8          50.0
Trade InformaLLon                          -         4.3         4.3          -         0.2       0.2         100.0
zxport Guarantee                           -                                            0.4       0.4         100.0
P:oduct Specialist frogtam              6.4         12          19 .2      0.3          0.6      0.9           66.7
Domestic Trade Firsz                    8.6            -         8.6       0.4            -       0. 4          0.0
3T! Suvoor% Comoonenz                     6.66                    15.0        0.3         o 4       0 7          I7 1
Aeg:onal Orfices Suppo:c                4.3          4.3         8.6       0.2          0.2       0.4          50.0
Poi1cy Support                          2.1          4.3         6.4       0.1          0.2      0.3           66.7
Total Baseline Costs                  j0j         3 466.3    7 6         8  1r96.4      162.0   358.4            45.2
P::ce Contingencies                     4.3          2.1         6.4       0.2          0.1      0.3           33.3
To%*L ?:oaicL Costs                   4 207. 3    346  9        7676 2    196.6         162-1       872



95
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMAIL AND MEDIUM INDJSTRIES DBVZLPMENT PRWECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5.   Financing Plan
US5 million
Local            Foreign             Total            t of Total
Credit Component                          195.0              160.0             35,0                 99.4
Subloan beneficiaries                   80.0                                 80.0                22.3
Participating Financial                 28.0                -                28.0                 7 8
Inst.                                                                           47.0                13.1
IGLF                                    47.0                -
ADS                                      -               100.0              100.0                27.9
ASEAN-Japan Development Fund            40.0                -                40.0                11.2
IBRD                                     -                60.0               60.0                16.7
Exoort Component                            1.3                1.7
Japan Grant Facility            -        1.2                1.7                2.9                1.8
T.A. beneficiaries                        0.1               -                  0.1                -
DTI SuoDort Comoonent                       0.3                0.4                                   ji7  0 2
Japan Grant Facility                     0.3                0.4              0.7                  0.2
Total                                     196.6              162.1             358.7                100.0
Subloan beneficiaries                   80.0                -                80.0                22.3
T.A. beneficiaries                       0.1                -                  0.1
Participating Financial                 28.0                -                2S.0                  7.8
Inst.                                      47.0                -                47.0                13.1
IGLF                                     -               100.0               100.0               27.9
ADB                                     40.0                -                40.0                11.2
ASEAN-Japan Development Fund             1.5                2.1               3.6                 ;.0
Japan Grant Facility                     -                 60.0              60.0                16.7
IBRD
negligible
- nil



96
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6.   ParticiPating Financial Institutions
APjrov ed
Rev. Credit
Financial Institution                                                 (In Killion P)
C0ommCIAL Bw   **
Allied Banking Corporation                                                                                                750.0
Asian Bank Corporation                                                                                                    69
Boston Bank (Bank of Comerce)                                                                                             *99 0
Bank of the Philippine Island                                                                                             600.0
Cbira Banking Corporation                                                                                               1,880.0
Equitable Banking Corporation                                                                                           1,944.0
far East Bank & Trust Company                                                                                           2,079.0
Hetropolitan Bank & Trust Company                                                                                       1,950.0
Philippine Bank of Commications                                                                                         1,666.0
Philippine Comercial International Bank                                                                                 1 970 0
lisal comercial Banking Corporation                                                                                     1,970.0
Solid Bank Corporation                                                                                                  1 704.0
The International Corporate Bnk                                                                                           9B7.0
Union Bank of the Philippines                                                                                           1,774.0
United Coconut Planters Bank                                                                                            1,600.0
Urban Bank                                                                                                                180.0
"  PRVPAT  DEILOPHMNT/TB3IfT BAS 
Asiatrust Development Bank                                                                                                B50 0
BPI 4ricultural Developm et Bank, Inc.                                                                                    200 0
Capitol Development Bank                                                                                                  125.0
Dumaguste City Development Bank                                                                                            15 0
First Provincial Development Bank                                                                                          14.0
Northern Mindadno Development Bank                                                                                        100.0
Planters Development Bank                                                                                               1,546.0
Premters Development Bank                                                                                                 175 0
Southern Negros Development Bank                                                                                            8.0
PDCP Bank                                                                                                                 100.0
Quen City Development Bank                                                                                                 25.0
SWINGS & MORTGAGE Bs/SLA c
Banco de Oro Savings & Mortgage Bank                                                                                      580 0
BPI Faily Savings Bank                                                                                                    200.0
Farmers Savings I Loan association                                                                                         29.7
Fortune Savings & Loan Association                                                                                         41.8
Lips Public Savings & Loan Association                                                                                     28.2
Monte de Piedad Savings & Loan Association                                                                                225 0
Penafrancia Savings & Loan Association                                                                                      9.2
|e  SP3CIALZED G0VI T BANS 
L-ad Bank of tb  Philippins                                                                                             1 62d.0
Philippine Ntional Bank                                                                                                 1,600.0
"  NON-RANK FINANCIAL INTIEIAZI  *S
lEA Development Corporation                                                                                               100.0
First Pacific Capital Corporation                                                                                         249.0
State Investment House                                                                                                    120.0
R L BAKS 
Rural Bank of Tbaan                                                                                                         3.0
Rural Bank of Heycouayan, Inc.                                                                                              80
Rural Bank of odiongan, Inc.                                                                                                4 0
Rural Bank of Pageanjan, Inc.                                                                                              15.0
Rural Bank of Pandi, Inc.                                                                                                   5.0
Rural Bank of Pateros, Inc.                                                                                                 2.0
Rural Bank of Rang-Ay. Inc.                                                                                                21.0
Rural Bank of San Juan, Inc.                                                                                               20.0
Rural Bank of Sorsogon. IDc.                                                                                                1.5
TOTAL                                                                                             50,068.4



97
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7. SMI IV TTA Component
A.   Export Component
1.  This component was designed to strengthen the export framework,
particularly for SMI exporters, by providing equipment, technical
assistance, loan financing, training and administrative expenses, to
ensure that they could have: (a) ready access to a strengthened pre-
shipment guarantee facility, (b) enhanced usage of a strengthened duty
drawback/exemption scheme, and (c) improved export marketing by continuing
marketing assistance programs and improving DTI's trade information
services.
2.   Pro-shipment Export Guarantee.      Philguarantee was judged to be the
most suitable institution to build an effective guarantee facility. Two
new policies were proposed, a whole turnover policy for accredited banks,
and a line of credit policy for approved exporters. Under this process,
Philguarantee would prepare a computerized database on the export
community, for which the Project provided technical assistance, computer
hardware and software, and training at a cost of US$0.4 million. In view
of its financially weak position, Philguarantee agreed that it would
review the need and options for recapitalizing, provided the new guarantee
policies proved effective.
3.   Duty Drawback/Exemption Schemes (DDS).  In order to improve DDS,
certain measures are proposed: (1) improve the coverage to meet the needs
of all categories of exporters, particularly SMI and indirect exporters;
(2) simplify DDS procedures; (3) adopt standardized formulas of
manufacture to enhance DDS efficiency; and (4) establish a coordinating
committee to monitor this program implementation. The following financial
support was proposed for this program: (i) computer hardware and
software needs to prepare formulas of manufacture for DDS at a cost of
US$0.3 million, and (ii) TA requirements of relevant GOP entities for
overall strengthening of DDS at an estimated cost of US$0.4 million.
4.  Trade Information Services.   To meet the need of exporters for trade
information, provision of US$0.2 million was made, under the Project, for
library materials to the Bureau of Export Trade Promotion. Also as
Australia provided TA to develop management systems in the Bureau's
overseas offices, the Project provided US$0.04 million to finance
complementary computer equipment to ten priority overseas offices.
5.   Marketing Development.   The Project gave support to two components,
the Project Specialist Program and the Domestic Trade Fairs Program. The
former program selects priority export subsectors for development of



98
international design capability at a cost of US$0.9 million. The Domestic
Fairs Program addresses product design and sales at the firm level, and is
organized around regional fairs, the cost estimate being US$0.4 million.
A cost sharing arrangement, with participating firms, has been introduced
for both components.
B.   DTI Support Component
6.   DTI's Regional Development Group has a network of regional off ices to
assist SMIs, and these offices need to be upgraded. One-stop
documentation centers, to assist SMIs, were also to be established. The
Project accordingly provided US$0.3 million for training and a further
US$0.08 million for equipment and vehicles. The GOP was, at the time of
appraisal, considering an omnibus export legislation and, to provide an
analytical base, three studies were considered necessary: a reassessment
of export processing zones, new measures to extend the system of export
finance, and the institutional framework of direct support for exporters.
A sum of US$0.3 million was set aside for these studies.



99
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMEFT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8A.    Development Bank of the Philippines
Income Statements 1989 - 1993
(In million Pesos)
1989       1990        1991       1992        1993
Income
Interest on loans & advances              960      1,442       2,325      3,162        3,639
Earnings on funds & securities            574        863       1,190      1,752         1,851
Other income                              416        423         359        800           773
Total income                          1,950      2,728       3,874      5,714        6,263
Expenses
Financial expenses                        227        526       1,399      2,650        3,731
Salaries & other personnel                294        433         454        488           505
expenses                                       34         51         61         51            67
Depreciation                                 0          1         18       (36)             4
Provision for doubtful accounts            23           5          5         13             0
Provision for probable expenses           271        375         427      1,024           629
Other administrative expenses             849       1,391      2,364      4,190         4,936
Total Expenses
Net Operating Income                        1,101      1,337      1,510      1,524         1,327
Share in Net Income of Equity                   2          2          4           4            3
Invest.                                        33         55         72          0             0
Provision for Income Tax                        0        232        258           0            0
Final Tax Paid
NET INCOME FOR PERIOD                 1,070      1,052       1,184      1,528         1,330
Ratios
Return on Average Equity                  18.83!    16.03!       16.77S     18.61S        13.66Z
Return on Average Assets                   9.41S       7.39X      5.36Z      4.47!         2.44!
Net Worth/Total Assets                    55.25!    40.05!       26.84!     21.66!        18.40!
Debt/Equity                                0.81        1.50       2.73       3.62          4.43
Net Worth/Risk Assets                     94.12!    62.99!       45.332    33.95S         26.39!
Current Ratio                               1.77       1.22       1.20       1.47          1.73
Liquid Assets/Deposits                   166.02!    114.76!    110.80!      93.07!        97.23!
Int. on Loans & Advances/Gross            49.23!    52.86!       60.02!    55.34!         58.102
Income                                    31.90!    31.71!       24.91!     26.952        19.24!
Admin. Expenses/Gross Income              43.54!    50.99!       61.02!     73.332        78.81!
Operating ExpenseajOperating                   0         19         38      54.46         59.41
Income                                    13.00!     13.00!      10.00!      8.00!         4.00!
Wholesale/Retail Ratio                      5.44S      6.27!      4.47!      3.17!         2.21!
Financial Spread                           7.81        1.28       1.29       1.66          1.86
Admin. Expenses/Average Total              5.99        3.12       1.91       1.59           1.38
Assets
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Interest Coverage Ratio



100
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8B.    Development Bank of the Philippines
Balance Sheets 1989 - 1993
(In million Pesos)
1989       1990        1991        1992         1993
Assets
Cash and due from banks                1,143      1,492       3,390        4,964       9,098
Investment in securities               2,762      3,457       5,622        8,824       6,809
Accounts receivable and others            12          15          18          19           22
Short-term advances and loans          1,602      1,835       1,916        2,553       6,637
Current maturities of term             2,062      1,544       2,420        7,169       4,909
loans                                     7,581      8,343      13,366       23,529      27,475
Total Current Assets
Long-term
Loans                                  4,235      7,045      11,044       13,996      24,478
Provision for doubtful               (1,880)    (1,221)       (873)        (563)       (478)
accounts                                    387       1,230      1,400          780          847
Inv. in                    -             288        306         316          507         641
bonds/equities/debentures                   711       1,449       1,758       2,950       3,770
Fixed assets (net)                     3,741      8,809      13,645       17,670      29,258
Other assets
Total Long-Term Assets
TOTAL ASSETS                       11,322     17,152      27,011       41,199      56,733
LIABILITIES & NET WORTH                                                                   _
Current
Deposits                               2,564      3,960       7,703       12,478      12,950
Accounts payable and acc. exp.         1,506      2,302       3,321        3,732       2,870
Short-term borrowings                      7        327          44           97      130266
Current maturities                       218        244          47          174      16,216
Total Current Liabilities          4,295       6,833      11,115       16,481
Lone-term
Time and special deposits                 79      1,215       2,020        3,008       4,044
Deferred credits                         204         199        191          761          744
Special funds                             18         141        140          140           11
Long-term borrowings                     471       1,894      6,295       11,887      25,277
Total Long-term Liabilities          772       3,449       8,646       15,796      30,076
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  5,067      10,282      19,761       32,277      46,292
Net Worth
Paid-in capital                        2,500      2,500       5,000        5,000       5,000
Retained earnings                      3,755      4,370       2,250        3,922       5,441
TOTAL NET WORTH                    6,255       6,870       7,250        8,922      10,441
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET           11,322      17,152      27,011       41,199      56,733
WORTH



101
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9.   Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
(Staff Weeks-Actual)
Stage of
Proiect Cycle            FY86        FY87       FY88       FY89       FY90        FY91       FY'2        FY93      FY94    TOTAL
Through Appraisal             15.8       40.4        61.5       20.6                                                              138.4
Negotiations                                                     7.5                                                               7.5
Supervision and                                                  4.2        13.7       9.9         1.S        4.3        0.1      33.8
Administration
TOTAL                         15.8        40.4       61.5       32.3        13.7       9.9         1.5        4.3        0.1      179.7
Missions
Stage of                 Month/              Number of             Days in                 Staff             Performance
Proiect Cycle                 Year               Persons               Field                  DaYs                 Ratinq
Through Appraisal                6/86                    3                   12                     36
2/87                   5                    17                    85
10/87                  4                    11                    44
5/88                   5                   20                    100
10/88                  3                    20                    60
Supervision                      10/89                   2                   12                    24                      2
4/90                   2                    14                    28                     1
6/91                   1                    10                    10                    na
6/92                   1                    10                    10                     1



102
PHILIPPINES
FOURTH SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3038-PH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table  10.    Loan Covenants
Section                        Activity                                 Remarks
Loan Agreement with IGLF
Schedule 8, para. 1   IGLF Policy Manual, incorporating         Compliance.
agreements reached with the Bank, will be   The IGLF Policy Manual, properly
issued.                                  revised, was issued before loan
effectiveness.
Schedule 8, para. 2   Consider measures to improve the IGLF     While the guarantee coverage has been
guarantee and submit implementation      widened, the main weakness, dilatory
schedule for Bank review by June 30,     claims settlement, remains unresolved.
1990.
Schedule 8, para. 4   Review regional interest rate preference by   As agreed with the Bank, the regional
June 30, 1990 and phase out by June 30,    interest rate subsidy was phased out by
1991 (if the guarantee program is in place).  1993.
Minutes               Plans for proposed IGLF transfer to DBP.    The transfer of IGLF to DBP was
completed in the third quarter of 1990.
Section 3.05          Surplus IGLF funds to be used as agreed.    Compliance.
Minutes               Set aside a 5% sample of subloan          Compliance.
appraisals for review
Submit semi-annual reports to the Bank.  Compliance.
Section 4.02          Be audited yearly by COA, including audit   Complianec, but usualUy submitted late.
of Special Account and Statement of
ExpendiLure, and submit audit lo Bank
witiin six months of year end. (Substituted
by audit by DBP).
Section 4.03          Require PFIs to have IGLF portfolios      Compliance.
audited annually by acceptable auditors,
with finds conveyed to IGLF within six
months of year end.



103
Section                        Activity                                  Remarks
With DOF and Philguarantee
Schedule 8, para. 3    Measures to improve the pre-shipment      Compliance.
l____________________  export guarantee adopted by Philguarantee.
Minutes                Terms of reference for pre-shipment export   Compliance.
guarantee and Philguarantce assistance.
Review of Philguarantee initiatives and  Compliance.
consideration of appropriate organizational
changes.
Section 4.02           Annual audit of Philguarantee operations,    Compliance, but usually submitted late.
submitted to the Bank within six months of
year-end.
With DTI
Minutes              | Approval of computerization plan by       Cumpliance.
relevant agencies.
DDS consultancy terms of reference.       Compliance.
Submission of cost estimates and needs    Compliance.
analysis for Trade Information
Subcomponent.
User fees for PSP and Domestic Fairs.    Compliance.
Policy/Program Design TOR agreement.      Compliance.
Submit semi-annual reports on             Compliance.
implementation status of Export and DTI-
l _________________ |Support Components.
Section 4.02           Maintain separate accounts for each       Compliance, but usually submitted late.
subcomponent and have them audited
annually by COA; this would include an
audit of disbursements made under the
Statement of Expenditure, and would be
submitted to the Bank within sex months of
year end.



I






I



