Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3038 PH
                (Fourth Small and Medium Industries
                       Development Project)
                              between
                    REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 31, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3038 PH
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  May  31,  1989,  between  THE  REPUBLIC OF
THE  PHILIPPINES  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Borrower,  having  been  satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  receive from the Japanese Grant
Facility a grant (the Japanese Grant) in an amount of ë470,000,000
to assist in financing Part B of the Project.
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  3  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings  therein  set  forth,  and  the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Accredited    Institution"    means    any    financial
institution, established and operating in the Borrower's territory
in accordance with the  laws  of  the  Borrower, which the Central
Bank has accredited on the  basis  of criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, to participate in  making  Sub-loans  for cottage, small and
medium industries which are, or  are proposed to be, refinanced by
the Central Bank from IGLF, under Part A of the Project;
     (b)  "Beneficiary Enterprise" means an enterprise to which an
Accredited Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (c)  "Bureau" means the Bureau  of  Small and Medium Business
Development within DTI;
     (d)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Philippines
acting as administrator of the  Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
of the Borrower;
     (e)  "cottage  industry"  means  a  manufacturing  or service
enterprise with total assets at the time of application for a Sub-
loan exceeding peso 50,000 but not exceeding peso 500,000;
     (f)  "IGLF" means the Industrial  Guarantee  and Loan Fund, a
fund established by the  Borrower  and administered by the Central
Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Master Agreement;
     (g)  "Master   Agreement"    means    the   agreement   dated
November 27, 1979  between  the  National Economic and Development
Authority of  the  Borrower  and  the  Central  Bank governing the
operations of IGLF and  such  term  includes  all annexures to the
Master Agreement;
     (h)  "medium  industry"  means  a  manufacturing  or  service
enterprise with total  assets  at  the  time  of application for a
Sub-loan  exceeding  peso   5,000,000   but   not  exceeding  peso
20,000,000;
     (i)  "DTI" means the Department of  Trade and Industry of the
Borrower;
     (j)  "peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
     (k)  "small industry" means a manufacturing or service enter-
prise with total assets at the  time of application for a Sub-loan
exceeding peso 500,000 but not exceeding peso 5,000,000;
     (l)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made, by
an Accredited Institution to  a  Beneficiary Enterprise for a Sub-
project and which is, or is proposed to be, refinanced from IGLF;
     (m)  "Sub-project"  means  a  specific  project  for cottage,
small or medium industry to be carried out by a Beneficiary Enter-
prise under the Project;
     (n)  "Philguarantee" means the  Philippine Export and Foreign
Loan  Guarantee  Corporation  of  the  Borrower  or  any successor
thereto; and
Page  3
     (o)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to sixty million
dollars ($60,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall so  agree,  to  be  paid)  by  the  Borrower  on  account of
withdrawals made by a  Beneficiary  Enterprise under a Sub-loan to
meet the reasonable cost  of  goods  and services required for the
Sub-project in  respect  of  which  the  withdrawal  from the Loan
Account is requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as  practicable  after the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial, economic and  technical practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 8
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans  will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on  the  terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Sub-project in such manner  as  to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and  the  Borrower;  (ii)  comply with its obligations
under this  Agreement;  and  (iii)  achieve  the  purposes  of the
Project.
     Section 3.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services  required for
Part B of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the  Japanese  Grant  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  exercise its rights under
the Master Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank  and  to  accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the  Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend,  abrogate  or  waive any provision of the
Master Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the repayment of
principal in respect of  Sub-loans  made under the Project through
IGLF shall  be  used  exclusively  to  finance  such  further Sub-
projects as would have been  eligible  to receive financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. The  Borrower  shall  maintain  or  cause to be
maintained separate accounts  and  records  adequate to reflect in
accordance with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting prac-
tices, the operations, resources  and  expenditures, in respect of
the Project,  of  the  departments  or  agencies  of  the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any Part thereof.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records  referred  to  in  Section 4.01 of
               this Agreement, the  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  and records and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited  in  accordance  with  sound auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of said finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited, and
Page  5
               (B) the report of  such  audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the said records, accounts and financial state-
               ments and the audit thereof  as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance  with  Section 4.01 of this
               Agreement,  records  and  accounts  reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  cause  the Central Bank to
make arrangements with the Accredited Institutions receiving funds
out of  IGLF  to  have  their  IGLF  related  accounts  audited in
accordance with regulations and standards of the Central Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower shall have  taken  any action to discontinue the
operations of IGLF.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Japanese Grant has become effective; and
     (b)  that the  revised  IGLF  Policy  Manual,  referred to in
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 8 to this Agreement, has been issued.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Secretary  of  Finance  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Department of Finance
          Manila
          Republic of the Philippines
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               MINFIN                       7550 CBP-PH
               Manila                      42068 CB-CONF
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
                        By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  7
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans for            60,000,000      100% of amount
     Part A of the                            disbursed
     Project
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  unless  the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred  to  in  Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of $6,000,000, may be
made in respect of  the  Project  on  account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1988.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
furthering the development of cottage, small and medium industries
(SMI) and  in  strengthening  the  operational  capability  of the
financial and technical  assistance  institutions  involved in the
financing and counseling of  said industries within the Borrower's
territory.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The refinancing by the  Central  Bank,  out  of IGLF, of Sub-
loans made  by  the  Accredited  Institutions  to  the Beneficiary
Enterprise for Sub-projects.
Part B:
     (1)  Improve the availability and quality of services for SMI
exporters in the areas of:
          (i)  duty drawback/exemption;
         (ii)  product specialist program;
        (iii)  domestic trade fair program;
         (iv)  trade information; and
          (v)  export finance/guarantee.
Page  8
     (2)  Improve DTI's support for cottage and SMI firms by:
          (i)  strengthening DTI's regional operations, and
         (ii)  providing   technical    assistance    for   policy
               formulation and  program  design  in  the  areas of
               export and industry development and finance.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
     September 1, 1994                             1,100,000
     March 1, 1995                                 1,145,000
     September 1, 1995                             1,185,000
     March 1, 1996                                 1,235,000
     September 1, 1996                             1,280,000
     March 1, 1997                                 1,330,000
     September 1, 1997                             1,380,000
     March 1, 1998                                 1,430,000
     September 1, 1998                             1,485,000
     March 1, 1999                                 1,545,000
     September 1, 1999                             1,605,000
     March 1, 2000                                 1,665,000
     September 1, 2000                             1,730,000
     March 1, 2001                                 1,795,000
     September 1, 2001                             1,865,000
     March 1, 2002                                 1,935,000
     September 1, 2002                             2,010,000
     March 1, 2003                                 2,085,000
     September 1, 2003                             2,165,000
     March 1, 2004                                 2,250,000
     September 1, 2004                             2,335,000
     March 1, 2005                                 2,425,000
     September 1, 2005                             2,515,000
     March 1, 2006                                 2,610,000
     September 1, 2006                             2,710,000
     March 1, 2007                                 2,815,000
     September 1, 2007                             2,925,000
     March 1, 2008                                 3,035,000
     September 1, 2008                             3,150,000
     March 1, 2009                                 3,260,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalent
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
Page  9
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words  "the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to the Borrower
terminate the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make withdrawals with
respect to such  amount.  Upon  the  giving  of  such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall  be  cancelled"  set  forth at the end of
Section  6.03  are  deleted   and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:
               "or  (f)  by   the   date  specified  in  sub-para-
          graph 1 (b) of  Schedule  5  to  the Loan Agreement, the
          Bank shall, in respect of  any  portion of the Loan: (i)
          have received  no  applications  or  requests under said
          subparagraph; or (ii) have  denied any such applications
          or requests. The Bank  may,  by  notice to the Borrower,
          terminate the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  submit such
          applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
          Loan Account, as the case  may  be, with respect to such
          amount or portion of the  Loan.  Upon the giving of such
          notice, such amount  or  portion  of  the  Loan shall be
          cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
                           of Sub-loans
1.   (a)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in  respect of a Sub-loan shall
contain (i) a  summary  description  of the Beneficiary Enterprise
and the Sub-project, including  a  description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan, and (ii)
the terms and conditions  of  the Sub-loan, including the schedule
of amortization therefor.
     (b)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of this  paragraph  shall  be  presented  to  the Bank on or
before December 31, 1992.
2.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain or cause  to  be  obtained,  by  written  contract with the
Beneficiary Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the  interests  of  the Bank and the Borrower,
Page  10
including, in the case of any Sub-loan and, the right to:
     (a)  require the  Beneficiary  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Sub-project with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
accordance  with   sound   technical,   financial  and  managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also  of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency  and  reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services,  of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering  them;  and  (ii) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall  so  request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and  construction  included  in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the  Beneficiary Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Beneficiary  Enterprise  to  replace or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations  and  financial  condition  of the Sub-
project and to the  benefits  to  be derived from the Sub-project;
and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Beneficiary Enterprise to perform  its  obligations under its con-
tract with the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 6
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
1.   Vehicles  up  to  an   aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the
equivalent  amount  of  $60,000,  may  be  procured  through local
shopping in accordance of the standard procedures of the Borrower.
2.   Duty Drawback System hardware,  software and related services
may be  procured  under  contract  awarded  through limited inter-
national bidding procedures on  the  basis  of evaluation and com-
parison of bids invited from  a  list  of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible  under  the  "Guidelines  for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines) and in  accordance  with  the  procedures set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
Page  11
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means  Category (1) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services required
under the Project and to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time  to  time  to  the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement,
provided, however, payments for expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of Sub-loans may  be  made out of the Special Account
before the Bank shall  have  authorized  withdrawals from the Loan
Account in  respect  thereof.  Such  expenditures,  however, shall
qualify  as  eligible   expenditures   only   if  the  Bank  shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $4,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf  of  the Borrower,  withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account  under  the  eligible  Category,  and  in  the  respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
Page  12
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category under the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered  into  by the Bank pursuant
to Section 5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with respect to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan  allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries under the Project  shall  follow  such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the  extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly  upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as  the  Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant  provisions of  this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 8
                      Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall (i) revise IGLF's Policy Manual to include
the policies stipulated in the Annex to this Schedule; (ii) ensure
that the Policy Manual as  revised  is made applicable to all Sub-
loans financed from the proceeds of  the  Loan under Part A of the
Project; and (iii) not amend, abrogate or waive the application of
the Policy Manual as  revised  except  by mutual agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank.
2.   By June 30,  1990,  the  Borrower  shall  prepare measures to
Page  13
improve the IGLF  guarantee  facility together with implementation
schedule and furnish the same to the Bank for review and comment.
3.   The Borrower  shall  and  shall  cause  Philguarantee: (i) to
introduce measures  to  expand  the  coverage  of the pre-shipment
export guarantee; and (ii) to adopt said measures by incorporating
them in Philguarantee's Policy Manual.
4.   The  Borrower  shall  cause  IGLF  to  review  no  later than
June  30,  1990,  the   preferential   rates  for  IGLF  Sub-loans
established pursuant  to  paragraph  (iv)  of  the  Annex  to this
Schedule and promptly thereafter adopt a plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, to  phase  out  no  later  than  June  30,  1991 the Subsidy
provided under such preferential rates.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 8
     With reference to  Paragraph  1  of  Schedule 8, the Borrower
shall  ensure  that  IGLF   Policy   Manual  will  stipulate,  the
following:
          (i)  The maximum size for  assets  of firms eligible for
               IGLF funding  under  the  Project  will  be peso 20
               million and the  maximum  Sub-loan  will be peso 20
               million;
         (ii)  IGLF sub-borrowers shall  comply  with all laws and
               regulations of the  Philippines related to environ-
               mental protection. Specifically,  they shall comply
               with P.D.  1067  Water  Code  1976,  and  P.D. 1152
               Environmental Code 1977;
        (iii)  Interest rates  to  be  charged  from  IGLF  to the
               Accredited Institutions  will  be  based  on market
               rates, and  will  be  offered  at  either  fixed or
               variable rates. Under  the  fixed  rate option, the
               rate to  the  Accredited  Institutions  will be set
               equal to the weighted  average interest rate during
               the previous six months on all time deposits of two
               years and over in maturity.  The rate will be fixed
               for five years. The variable rate will be set semi-
               annually and  will  be  equivalent  to the weighted
               average  interest  rate  during  the  previous  six
               months on all time deposits  of six months or lower
               maturities. The  variability  of  the interest rate
               will be limited  by  a  cap  such  that the maximum
               increase within a six month period will be 1%;
         (iv)  A rate reduction of  up  to 3% for specific regions
               but totalling no  more  than  2%  on average may be
               offered by IGLF to  the Accredited Institutions for
               Sub-loans  outside  the  National  Capital  Region,
               Central Luzon Region,  Southern  Tagalog Region and
               Central Visayas Region  and  Sub-loans for specific
               economically   depressed   provinces   within   the
               aforementioned regions as agreed with the Bank;
          (v)  Interest rates to be  charged to end-users will not
               be regulated by  IGLF,  and the Accredited Institu-
               tions will be free  to  set  rates at their discre-
               tion. The Accredited  Institutions will continue to
               take the credit risk  on their IGLF-funded loans to
               end-users.
         (vi)  To reflect the foreign exchange risk incurred, IGLF
               will establish an  equity  reserve account in which
               the differential between IGLF lending and borrowing
               rates for foreign currency financed Sub-loans, less
               proportionate   administrative    fees,   will   be
               accumulated;
        (vii)  For all sub-loans made  using Bank funds, a minimum
Page  14
               participation of 10% of  the total loan amount must
               be  made  by  the  Accredited  Institutions,  and a
               minimum equity  contribution  of  20%  of the total
               Sub-project cost will  be  required from the entre-
               preneur;
       (viii)  For the IGLF  export  pre-shipment  window, a fixed
               interest rate  generally  aligned  with the Central
               Bank rediscount  rate  and  a  continuation of 100%
               rediscounting; and
         (ix)  For  all  Sub-loans  of   peso  5,000,000  or  more
               financial rate of return will be computed.
