Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H592-AF 
 
AMENDMENT 
GRANT NUMBER H162-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Strengthening Higher Education Project and  
Amendment to the Development Grant Agreement) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 27, 2010 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  June 27, 2010, entered into between ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).   
 
This Agreement: (i) sets out the terms and conditions related to the Additional 
Financing for the Strengthening Higher Education Project; and (ii) extends the Closing 
Date of the Development Grant Agreement (herein referred to as the “Original Financing 
Agreement” as such term is defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,100,000) 
(the 
“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (the “Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Higher 
Education in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in accordance with the Environment and Social 
Safeguards Framework and the Project Implementation Manual. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Pashtunistan 
Watt 
 Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
93-20-210-3258 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Page  5
3
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written 
 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By/s/ Mohammed Omar Zakhilwal 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Nicholas J. Krafft 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in restoring the basic 
operational performance of Higher Education Institutions so as to enhance the quality of 
tertiary education. 
 
The Project consists of the Original Project, scaled up in the manner reflected 
below: 
 
Part A: Improvement of Quality in Key Higher Education Institutions 
 
1. 
Carrying out of partnership programs between additional selected universities 
within the Recipient’s territory and established foreign universities, with the aim 
of, 
inter alia
,
supporting the preparation of Strategic Development Plans, 
supporting curriculum revision and development, providing fellowships for local 
professors to study at foreign universities, providing opportunities for foreign 
faculty to teach at local universities, carrying out of joint research and 
publication and preparing physical and academic facility development plans. 
 
2. 
Provision of additional and increased Block Grants to assist Beneficiaries in 
carrying out Sub-Projects designed to implement the prioritized and focused 
areas of the Strategic Development Plan and to restore the basic operational 
performance of Beneficiaries. 
 
Part B: Development of Higher Education System 
 
1.  
Provision of additional technical assistance to MOHE for the development of an 
improved higher education system including, defining the relationship between 
MOHE and Higher Education Institutions, facilitating the autonomy and 
accountability of Higher Education Institutions, reforming the employment 
structure of academic staff and reviewing the financing strategies of Higher 
Education Institutions. 
 
2. 
Development of an autonomous quality assurance system for public and private 
universities, through the provision of additional technical advisory services, 
equipment and training. 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
.
The implementation arrangements set out in 
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project and any Sub-Projects there under are 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1.  
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the  
Closing Date. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than  
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
Page  8
6
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)   
Shopping 
(c)        Direct Contracting 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be carried out in accordance with the 
Recipient’s Procurement Law published in Official Gazette No. 865 of  
October 25, 2005, as amended on January 19, 2009, and the following additional 
procedures: 
 
Page  9
7
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used. 
 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
 
(iii) 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
 
(iv) 
Bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
 
(v) 
Foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding. 
 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
 
(viii) 
All bidders will provide bid security or a bid security declaration form as 
indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder’s bid security or the 
declaration form will apply only to a specific bid. 
 
(ix) 
Bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
 
(xi) 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
 
Page  10
8
(xiii) 
Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than four (4) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
 
(xv) 
Negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
 
(xvi) Re-
bidding will not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be use
d
for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
(b) Quality-Based 
Selection 
(c) 
Single Source Selection 
(d) Individual 
Consultants 
Page  11
9
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding or National 
Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for goods procured on the basis of Direct 
Contracting; and (c) each contract fo
r
consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  In addition, with respect to 
each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the qualifications and experience of 
all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Association.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Expenditures 
Associated with Project 
Implementation 
13,100,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
13,100,000 
 
Page  12
10 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Expenditures Associated with 
Project Implementation” means expenditures arising under the Project including: 
(i) goods; (ii) consultants’ services; (iii) training; (iv) fellowships; 
 
(v)  scholarships; (vi)  Block Grants; and (vii)  incremental operating costs 
(which means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project 
implementation and management, including the operation and maintenance of 
vehicles, office supplies, communication charges, insurance costs, office 
administration costs, banking charges, utility charges, rental charges, 
domestic/international travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Recipient’s civil service). 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2013. 
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Recipient shall ensure that payments shall not be made to each Beneficiary 
of a Block Grant unless: (i) the Beneficiary has opened a bank account on terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Beneficiary has signed 
the Disbursement Protocol. 
Page  13
11 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section IV of this Appendix. 
 
2. 
“Beneficiaries” means universities that receive Block Grants, each such 
university is referred to as a “Beneficiary”. 
 
3. 
“Block Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made by MOHE to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Grant for the purpose of carrying out Sub-
Projects, in accordance with paragraph B of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Disbursement Protocol” means a document to be prepared by MOF and signed 
by each Beneficiary, setting forth the disbursement and procurement 
arrangements for Block Grants. 
 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010.  
 
7. 
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” or “ESSF” means the 
Recipient’s Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework dated 2002 
acceptable to the Association and any amendments made to such ESSF from time 
to time, which sets out, among other things
:
(i) key principles for social and 
environmental management of Sub-Projects (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(ii) procedures to screen and process Sub-Projects for significant social and 
environmental impacts, and to assist in mitigating impacts; (iii) procedures to 
ensure that these principles and procedures are properly applied; and 
 
(iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section III of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Higher Education Institutions” means local universities and other tertiary 
institutions involved in the implementation of the Project, each such university or 
tertiary institution is referred to as a “Higher Education Institution”. 
Page  14
12 
 
10. 
“MOHE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Higher Education or any successor 
thereto. 
 
11. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement for the 
Strengthening Higher Education Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated June 16, 2005 as amended to the date of this Agreement (IDA 
Grant No. H162-AF). 
 
12. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Part” means a part of the Project descried in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006 and May 2010. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 16, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
16. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project implementation manual 
dated July 14, 2005, including amendments, schedules and annexes thereto, 
setting forth the procedures governing the operation of the Project and the 
carrying out of Sub-Projects, provided however, that in the event of a conflict 
between this Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual, the provisions 
of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
17. 
“Strategic Development Plan” means a plan which sets out the strategic direction 
of a Higher Education Institution, prepared by a Beneficiary as a framework for 
the proposal for a Block Grant. 
 
18. 
“Sub-Project” means a project to be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and in accordance with paragraph B of 
Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement. 
 
19. 
“Sub-Project Agreement” means a written agreement to be entered into between 
MOHE and a Beneficiary in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including those set forth in paragraph B.4 of Schedule 4 to the 
Original Financing Agreement. 
 
Page  15
13 
 
Section II.   
Amendment to the Original Financing Agreement 
 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
1. 
The Closing Date as set out in Section 2.03 of the Original Financing Agreement 
is hereby extended to June 30, 2013. 
 
Section III.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
 
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of 
financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation 
or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity 
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection 
with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Page  16
14 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) The 
term 
“Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
 
Section IV.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
Page  17
15 
 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.
”
Footnotes to Anti-Corruption Guidelines:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
