                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                               Report No: ICR00003359



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-97410)



                                         ON A

                                        GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$73.323 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                        FOR A

               ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO PNPM-RURAL III FOR

                            PNPM GENERASI SCALE-UP



                                      June 9, 2015




Global Practice for Social, Urban and Rural Resilience
Indonesia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 9, 2015)

                            Currency Unit = Rupiah
                            US$ 1.00 = IDR 13,330

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF         Additional Financing
AM         Aide Memoire
ASF        Administrative Services Firm
AusAid     Australian Aid
BOS        Bantuan Operasionel Sekolah (School Operational Grants)
BSM        Bantuan Siswa Miskin (Scholarships for Poor Students)
BAPPENAS   Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (National Planning Board)
CCT        Conditional Cash Transfers
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CDD        Community-driven Development
CSO        Civil Society Organization
DFAT       Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
EA         Environmental Assessment
ECED       Early Childhood Educational Development
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
FM         Financial Management
GoI        Government of Indonesia
HNP        Health, Nutrition, and Population
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDR        Indonesian Rupiah
IE         Impact Evaluation
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IGSES      Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards
IOI        Intermediate Outcome Indicator
IP         Indigenous Peoples
ISM        Implementation Support Mission
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
IGSES      Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards
JMC        Joint Management Committee
KDP        Kecamatan Development Project (IBRD Loan 4330-IND)
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
MMR        Maternal Mortality Rate
MCA-I      Millennium Challenge Account-Indonesia
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG       Millennium Development Goal
MDST      Musyarawah Desa Serah Terima (Village Accountability Meeting)
MDTF      Multi Donor Trust Fund
MIS       Management Information System
MoEC      Ministry of Education and Culture
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoH       Ministry of Health
MoHA      Ministry of Home Affairs
MoV       Ministry of Villages, Disadvantaged Areas and Transmigration
MP3KI     Masterplan for Acceleration of Poverty Reduction
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NMC       National Management Consultant
NTB       Nusa Tenggara Barat Province
NTT       Nusa Tenggara Timur Province
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PKH       Program Keluarga Harapan (Hopeful Family Program)
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMD       Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Desa (Directorate for Village Community
          Empowerment in the Ministry of Home Affairs)
PMS       Performance Monitoring Survey
PNPM      Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat (National Community
          Empowerment Program)
PRODIS    Program Disbursement (MIS application)
PROGEN    Program Generasi (MIS application)
PROTAK    Program Tahapan Kegiatan (MIS application)
PSF       PNPM Support Facility
PTO       Petunjuk Teknis Operasional (Operations Manual)
RF        Results Framework
RISKESDAS Riset Kesehatan Dasar (Basic Health Survey)
RPJMN     Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah Nasional (National Medium Term
          Development Plan)
SMS       Short Message Service
Sosbud    Directorate of Traditional and Community Social and Cultural Empowerment
          (Pemberdayaan Adat dan Sosial Budaya Masyarakat)
SP2D      Disbursement Order
SUSENAS   Survei Sosial Ekonomi Nasional (National Social Economic Survey)
TA        Technical Assistance
TF        Trust Fund
TPK       Tim Pengelola Kegiatan (Village Implementation Team)
UPK       Unit Pengelola Keuangan (Financial Management Unit)
      Regional Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
            Country Director: Rodrigo A. Chaves
Senior Global Practice Director Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
     Acting Practice Manager: Kevin Tomlinson
         Project Team Leader: Robert Wrobel
            ICR Team Leader: Robert Wrobel
                           INDONESIA
    ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO PNPM-RURAL III FOR PNPM GENERASI
                    SCALE-UP (P122032, TF097410)



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 20
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors................... 24
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 25
Annex 2: Outputs by Component ..................................................................................... 26
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 34
Annex 4: Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 35
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 37
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 38
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 40
Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.......................... 44
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 46
A. Basic Information
                                                                         ID-TF ADDITIONAL
                                                                         FINANCING OF
                                                                         PNPM RURAL III
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:             FOR GENERASI
                                                                         (COMM.CCT)
                                                                         SCALING-UP
                                                                         PROGRAM
Project ID:            P122032                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-97410
ICR Date:              04/28/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 10.20M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 73.32M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 73.32M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 DG Community and Village Empowerment, Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/18/2009   Effectiveness:                              08/16/2010
Appraisal:             02/10/2010   Restructuring(s):                           11/08/2013
Approval:              08/16/2010   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                12/31/2012          12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings           Borrower            Ratings
                       Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                       Unsatisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          No                                              None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                  34                  34
Other social services                                                   33                  33
Primary education                                                       33                  33


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                            40                  40
Other human development                                                 30                  30
Other social development                                                30                  30

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:            Rodrigo A. Chaves                    Stefan G. Koeberle
Practice
                             Kevin A Tomlinson                    Franz R. Drees-Gross
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:         Robert Wrobel                        John Victor Bottini
ICR Team Leader:             Robert Wrobel
ICR Primary Author:          Paul Gerard M Boon
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective (PDO) is for villagers in PNPM-Rural locations to
benefit from improved socio-economic and local governance conditions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                             approval          Target      Completion or
                                            documents)         Values       Target Years
                Immunization coverage for 12-23 month olds increases by 10% points from 65%
Indicator 1 :
                in 2007 to 75% in 2010.
Value
quantitative or 65.00                       75.00                              75.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/03/2007                    12/31/2010                         12/31/2014
                The randomized impact evaluation found that PNPM Generasi's impacts were
Comments
                largest in locations with low baseline health and education performance. As a
(incl. %
                result, government prioritized sub-districts with low baseline health and
achievement)
                education performance for proj
Indicator 2 : Prenatal care visits increase by 10% points from 71% in 2007 to 81% in 2010.
Value
quantitative or 71.00                       82.00                              82.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/03/2007                    12/31/2010                         12/31/2014
                The randomized impact evaluation found that PNPM Generasi's impacts were
Comments
                largest in locations with low baseline health and education performance. As a
(incl. %
                result, government prioritized sub-districts with low baseline health and
achievement)
                education performance for proj
                Deliveries assisted by trained professionals increase by 10% points from 67% in
Indicator 3 :
                2007 to 77% in 2010.
Value
quantitative or 67.00                                                          77.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/03/2007                                                       12/31/2014
                The randomized impact evaluation found that PNPM Generasi's impacts were
Comments
                largest in locations with low baseline health and education performance. As a
(incl. %
                result, government prioritized sub-districts with low baseline health and
achievement)
                education performance for proj
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Percentage of pregnant women receiving four prenatal care visits
Value
(quantitative     61.40                                                         91.22
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Source: RISKESDAS/MoH
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of pregnant women receiving 90 iron tablets
Value
(quantitative     18.00                                                         32.43
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
                  Source: RISKESDAS/MoH; Percentage of women that report consuming 90 or
(incl. %
                  more iron supplements during pregnancy.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of deliveries assisted by a trained professional
Value
(quantitative     82.20                                                         88.89
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Source: RISKESDAS/MoH
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Percentage of women receiving two postnatal care visits
Value
(quantitative     46.80                                                         47.50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Source: RISKESDAS/MoH
achievement)
                  Percentage of children under one year receiving complete childhood
Indicator 5 :
                  immunizations
Value
(quantitative   75.00                                                     83.82
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                             12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Source: 2010 IE Endline Survey
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Percentage of infants for which weight increases each month
Value
(quantitative   N/A                                                         75.36
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of children attending monthly weight checks for under threes and
Indicator 7 :
                biannually for under-fives
Value
(quantitative   75.00                                                       73.49
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2012                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Source: SUSENAS
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Percentage of children under-five receiving vitamin A twice a year
Value
(quantitative   71.50                                                       52.12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2014
Comments
                Below expectations. 2007 RISKESDAS data showed 71.5 of children under 5
(incl. %
                received Vitamin A supplements twice annually.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Primary school enrollment of all children 6 to 12 years old
Value
(quantitative   98.50                                                       98.67
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Source: PNPM Generasi Impact Evaluation endline survey.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all primary school aged children
Value
(quantitative   96.00                                                       89.64
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Source: PNPM Generasi Impact Evaluation endline survey.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Junior secondary school enrollment of all 13 to 15 years old
Value
(quantitative   87.40                                                       93.75
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                                                    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Source: PNPM Generasi Impact Evaluation endline survey.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all junior secondary school-aged children
Value
(quantitative     86.00                                                        93.20
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2010                                                   12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Source: PNPM Generasi Impact Evaluation endline survey.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  2     05/30/2011        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              10.20
  3     05/02/2012        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              32.84
  4     12/25/2012            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              42.34
  5     04/15/2013            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              42.34
  6     10/22/2013            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              61.73
  7     05/07/2014            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     73.32
  8     12/03/2014        Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                     73.32


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions

   11/08/2013                        S      MS           61.73     Extend TF closing by 24
                                                                   months.
                                                                   Reallocate Grant proceeds
  09/16/2014                        MS       S           73.323
                                                                   across expenditure categories
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Over the past several decades, Indonesia has made great strides in reducing poverty, with the
official poverty rate declining from 23.4 percent in 1999 to 11.4 percent in 2013. Indonesia has also
achieved significant successes in improving a number of key human development indicators. The
under-five mortality rate in the country has declined from 164 per 1,000 live births in 1970 to 85
in 1990; and to 31 in 2012. Similarly, the percentage of children under five that were moderately
or severely underweight decreased from 29.8 percent in 1992 to 17.9 percent in 2012. The
proportion of birth deliveries attended by qualified attendants increased from 40 percent in 2002 to
63 percent in 2012.
However, Indonesia still lags behind other countries in the region in terms of maternal and infant
mortality; child malnutrition; junior secondary school enrollment; and education learning quality.
Indonesia’s 2013 maternal mortality rate (MMR) of 190 (per 100,000 live births) means it will miss
its Millennium Development Goal (MDG) target of 102. Indonesia has the firth highest incidence
of stunting in the world, with 8.4 million children under five suffering from chronic malnutrition.
Across all of these measures, outcomes were worse in rural areas than in urban areas, with the
quality and availability of basic services lagging in the former. A range of demand- and supply-
side constraints continue to impact health and educational outcomes. Demand-side constraints
included high out-of-pocket health and education expenditures, particularly in the case of the latter;
high transportation costs to facilities due to infrastructure gaps; low awareness of and motivation
to utilize services; and concerns over poor quality of services that are not worth the cost. Supply-
side constraints included shortages of basic medical inputs in primary health care facilities; poor
coverage of doctors and midwives in rural areas; and teacher absenteeism in rural areas.
In 2007, the Government of Indonesia (GoI) launched two large-scale pilot projects to address
demand-side constraints in the area of health and education, as follows: (i) the Hopeful Family
Project (Program Keluarga Harapan), which involved the provision of conditional cash transfers
(CCTs) to individual households; and (ii) PNPM Generasi,1an incentivized community block grant
program implemented through the National Program for Community Empowerment (Program
Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat, or PNPM-Rural). PNPM-Rural was the GoI’s flagship
community empowerment program, underpinning Pillar Two of the GoI's three-pronged poverty
reduction strategy, as defined in Presidential Decree 15/2010 on accelerating poverty reduction. At
the same time, the GoI established the PNPM Support Facility (PSF) to harmonize and coordinate
the efforts of development partners engaged in community empowerment-focused poverty
reduction efforts. The PSF was managed by a Joint Management Committee (JMC) with
representatives from GoI agencies and development partners, with the Bank serving as the PSF
trustee.
The pilot phase of Generasi, which ran from 2007 to 2009, was accompanied by a rigorous impact
evaluation2 (IE), which randomly assigned Project treatment and control areas. This IE found that
Generasi had a statistically significant positive impact in terms of its 12 defined health and
education indicators. In particular, the IE showed that the Project facilitated an average reduction
in the incidence of childhood malnutrition of 2.2 percentage points. In addition, it facilitated an
increase in the frequency of weight checks by young children; an increase in the number of pregnant
women receiving iron supplements; and an increase in the rate of school participation of 7 to 12-


1In this document, PNPM Generasi will be referred to as either “Generasi” or “the Project.”
2Olken, B.A., J. Onishi, and S. Wong - Indonesia’s PNPM Generasi Program: Final Impact Evaluation Report, World
Bank, June 2011.

                                                       1
year-olds, with this increase being most significant in areas with the lowest baseline of
participation. Based on this evidence, the GoI took the decision to scale up Generasi as part of its
suite of demand-side health and education programs. With the scaling up of the Project, the GoI
committed to expanding coverage from the original 164 pilot sub-districts to at least 369 poor rural
sub-districts3 by 2014. PNPM Generasi was appraised as Additional Financing (AF) to PNPM-
Rural III. This AF was approved on August 3, 2010, with funding of US$ 10.2 million.
Generasi directly supported the GoI’s efforts to accelerate the achievement of the Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) targets. It achieved this by increasing the utilization of basic services
that contribute to reductions in maternal and child mortality and to the achievement of universal
primary education. Generasi was fully consistent with the Bank’s 2009-2012 Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) for Indonesia (Report No. 44845, dated July 22, 2008). In particular, Generasi
aligned with the pro-poor pillar, which focused on promoting community development; protecting
the vulnerable; and improving health outcomes. Generasi was fully aligned with the CPS’s goals
of improving local-level governance; facilitating a greater level of participation by women;
increasing access to health and education services; and facilitating a higher rate of participation in
early childhood education and development services.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was for villagers in PNPM-Rural locations to benefit
from improved socio-economic and local governance conditions. The PDO in the Grant Agreement
dated August 16, 2010 remains the same.
The expected outcomes for Generasi were included in the Loan’s Results Framework (RF) (see
PNPM-Rural III PAD, Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring). The PNPM-Rural III PAD
defines key performance indicators (KPIs) at the PDO level through Generasi, as improved health
indicators in a minimum of 200 sub-districts in six provinces (East Java, West Java, North Sulawesi,
East Nusa Tenggara, Gorontalo, West Nusa Tenggara). Specifically, these KPI are as follows:
       To increase the rate of immunization coverage for infants aged 12-23 month by 10 percent,
        from 38 percent in 2005 to 48 percent in 2010;
       To increase the proportion of women participating in prenatal care visits by 10 percent, from
        56 percent in 2005 to 66 percent in 2010; and
       To increase the proportion of births assisted by trained professionals by 10 percent, from 40
        percent in 2005 to 50 percent in 2010.
The Project Paper for the AF to PNPM-Rural III revised the RF to add a total of 12 indicators, of
which eight related to health and four related to education. These indicators were included as
Intermediate Outcome Indicators (IOIs) under Component One.
Health Targets:
         Pregnant women participate in at least four prenatal care visits;
         Pregnant women take iron tablets during their pregnancy;
         All birth deliveries are assisted by a trained professional;
         Women participate in at least two postnatal care visits following deliveries;



3Plans for Generasi expansion are outlined in the original PNPM Generasi Project Paper (Report No. 56112-ID), and are
reflected in the PAD for PNPM-Rural III, approved March 31, 2010, and in the PAD for PNPM-Rural IV, approved July
14, 2011.

                                                         2
      All children complete the full childhood immunization schedule;
      Infants achieve monthly weight increases;
      Children under three are weighed monthly and children aged 3 to 5 are weighed biannually;
      Children under the age of five take vitamin A supplementation biannually.
Education Targets:
      All children 6 to 12 years old are enrolled in primary school;
      The minimum attendance rate for all primary school-aged children is 85 percent;
      All children aged 13 to 15 are enrolled in junior secondary school;
      The minimum attendance for all junior secondary school-aged children is 85 percent.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO and key indicators remained unchanged during project implementation.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The AF provided additional financing to PNPM-Rural III to support the expansion of Generasi
from 164 sub-districts in six provinces to 369 sub-districts across 42 districts in eight provinces
(East Java, West Java, North Sulawesi, East Nusa Tenggara, Gorontalo, West Nusa Tenggara,
Maluku and West Sulawesi) through 2014, and to strengthen the capacity of the implementing
agency to manage the scale-up of the program. Generasi's target was to achieve an estimated
coverage of 5.4 million women, infants, and school-aged children in approximately 3,600 villages.
The Project was expanded on an annual basis, as described in Table 1.
Table 1: Expanding Coverage through Additional Financing (AF)
                        Coverage                                 Approval Date     Amount (US$ )
      AF                212 sub-districts in six provinces        3 August 2010       10,200,000
      AF 1              290 sub-districts in eight provinces         2 June 2011      28,123,000
      AF 2              369 sub-districts in eight provinces       17 April 2012      35,000,000
      Total RETF                                                                      73,323,000
Secondary beneficiaries included: (i) the Directorate General for Community and Village
Empowerment in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA, the executing agency), which benefited
from increased project implementation capacity; (ii) village facilitators and partner agencies
providing implementation support; (iii) district governments in which the targeted sub-districts
were located, which benefited from training, field studies, and institutional strengthening; and (iv)
local service providers and community members active in facilitating the delivery of basic services
(including midwives, community health volunteers, contract teachers, and tutors), who benefited
from the operational support provided through Generasi.
1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Sub-District Grants (US$ 9.81 million): This component contributed to
“improved socio-economic conditions” by providing resources for poor rural communities to
finance an open menu of local health- and education-related development activities that addressed
small-scale supply or demand-side constraints to service utilization, depending on where the




                                                      3
community perceived the need to be greatest. An incentivized portion 4 of the grant rewarded
villages that performed well relative to other villages, with these villages receiving a larger block
grant allocation in the following year of implementation. The budget for this component eventually
constituted approximately 87 percent of the total Project budget.
To support the achievement of “improved governance conditions,” this component provided
operational funds (calculated as 4 percent of the Sub-District Grant allocation) to support local-
level development planning, training and capacity-building, and mapping of early childhood
education services. Activities funded through operational funds included: (i) village participatory
needs assessments through which villagers worked with local health and education service
providers to identify lags in access to specific services; to identify the neediest beneficiaries; and
to determine which investments would be most effective to facilitate the achievement of specific
targets; (ii) information and planning meetings at the hamlet, village, and sub-district levels, during
which local service providers gained an understanding of community health and education needs;
and (iii) annual village accountability meetings (MDST), through which the previous year’s funds
were accounted for and performance bonuses were allocated.
Component 2: Technical Assistance (TA) (US$ 79,000): This component provided TA to
strengthen the capacity of GoI entities responsible for implementation at the national, provincial,
and district levels. Specifically, funds provided under this component covered the salaries and
operating costs of national and provincial level specialists; the salaries and operating costs of
district and sub-district facilitators; and MIS database related costs, including server costs and the
salaries of computer operators.
Component 3: Training and Capacity Building (US$ 233,000): This component provided pre-
service and refresher training for Generasi facilitators at the district and sub-district levels. This
component also financed evaluation workshops; training for MIS staff; and the development and
dissemination of communication and socialization materials to ensure Generasi and its approach
was well understood at different levels. It also financed National Specialists (NMC) responsible for
implementing the complaints handling system.
Component 4: Incremental Costs and Goods (US$ 78,000): This component provided support
to strengthen and expand the operations of the Secretariat under the Ministry of Home Affairs
(MoHA) including through workshops; through measures to improve coordination with other
ministries; and through supervision. The Secretariat was responsible for the implementation of due
diligence practices and for the provision of support to the implementing agency government staff
in day-to-day management tasks.
1.6 Revised Components
The components remained unchanged during implementation. However, with two more AFs, the
total budget allocation and the allocations for each component changed as follows:




4Within  a sub-district, in the Project’s first year funds are divided among villages in proportion to the number of target
beneficiaries in each village; i.e., the number of children of varying ages and the expected number of pregnant women.
In the Project’s second and subsequent years, 80 percent of the sub-district’s funds are divided among villages in
proportion to the number of target beneficiaries. The remaining 20 percent forms a performance bonus pool to be
divided among villages, structured as relative competition between villages within the same sub-district, based upon
their previous year’s performance on the 12 Generasi indicators.

                                                             4
Table 2: Generasi total budget and reallocation following second Restructuring

        Components                    AF            AF1                AF2         Original   Reallocation    %
                                                                                   Amount           (US$ )
                                                                                     (US$ )
 1      Sub-District          9,810,000      25,283,000        25,640,000        60,733,000    64,121,448    87.4
        Grants
 2      TA                         79,000     2,243,000          7,640,000        9,962,000     6,904,831     9.4
 3      Training and              233,000       517,000          1,640,000        2,390,000     1,994,015     2.8
        Capacity
        Building
 4      Incremental                78,000         80,000            80,000         238,000        302,706     0.4
        Costs and Goods
                    Total    10,200,000      28,123,000        35,000,000        73,323,000    73,323,000
1.7 Other significant changes
1.7.1      Institutional Arrangements
Generasi was originally implemented through the same Secretariat and TA structure as PNPM-
Rural. Recognizing that the rapid expansion of PNPM-Rural to national scale had strained Project
management capacity, the GoI decided that, from 2012 onwards, Generasi would be managed by
the Directorate of Traditional and Community Social and Cultural Empowerment (Pemberdayaan
Adat dan Sosial Budaya Masyarakat, or Sosbud), while PNPM-Rural would be managed by the
Directorate of Institutional and Community Training (Kelembagaan dan Pelatihan Masyarakat, or
KPM) under the Directorate General for Village Community Empowerment (Pemberdayaan
Masyarakat Desa, or PMD). PMD established a stand-alone Generasi Secretariat in the Sosbud
directorate responsible for implementing Generasi.
1.7.2      Restructurings and Delinking from PNPM-Rural III
Restructurings: The Project was restructured twice during implementation. The first restructuring
was carried out to extend the closing date of the TF to December 31, 2014. Generasi was originally
intended to operate at least until the end of 2014, in line with GoI’s implementation timeframe for
PNPM-Rural. However, at the time of appraisal, the PSF Multi Donor Trust Fund (MDTF,
TF070967), the TF from which Generasi was financed, had a closing date of June 30, 2013. As
such, Generasi had to be implemented with the original closing date of December 31, 2012, thereby
necessitating a later restructuring. The second restructuring was carried out to reallocate Grant
proceeds across expenditure categories. As part of both restructuring processes, the Bank
recommended to the GoI that the RF be revised to better reflect the outputs and outcomes specific
to Generasi. The GoI did not act upon this recommendation.
Table 3: Project Restructurings

                              Project changes                  Approval Authority         Approval Date
 First                Extend TF closing by 24 months.                RVP                November 28, 2013
 Restructuring
 Second               Reallocate Grant proceeds across                  CD              September 16, 2014
 Restructuring        expenditure categories


Delinking PNPM-Rural and Generasi: As described above, the GoI separated Generasi from
PNPM-Rural III due to the lack of capacity of the implementing agency to manage both programs
following the nation-wide scale-up in 2010. In December 2012, the Bank delinked Generasi from


                                                         5
PNPM-Rural III to reflect the GoI implementing arrangements for the two projects.5 Furthermore,
it was decided that Generasi would not be linked to PNPM-Rural IV, a decision formalized during
the appraisal process for PNPM-Rural IV. From March 2013 onwards, stand-alone Implementation
Status Reports (ISRs) were produced for Generasi.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Soundness of background analysis and lessons learned from previous projects.
Generasi was designed to function through the robust KDP/PNPM-Rural implementation platform
developed over the previous ten years and to build on the findings of a robust randomized CT
impact evaluation (IE) 6 which provided strong evidence regarding the Project’s strengths and
weaknesses and the type of locations in which the Project was most effective. With evidence of the
Project’s success, the GoI’s PNPM Steering Committee took the decision to expand Generasi to
additional sub-districts with poor health and education outcomes and to mainstream the
incentivized block grant system in all Generasi locations from 2010 onwards.
Assessment of the Project design
Generasi benefited from being able to draw on robust IE findings. Major findings and related design
implications included: (i) the incentivized community grant approach was more effective than the
non-incentivized approach, and therefore was mainstreamed in all Generasi locations; (ii) Generasi
was most effective in areas with low health and education performance, which enabled the GoI to
prioritize sub-districts with poor health and education performance when expanding the Project;
(iii) the Project had greater impacts in health than in education ; and (iv) the GoI’s existing CDD
architecture was an effective implementation platform to enable communities to overcome
constraints to accessing health and education services, but required specialized facilitation in order
to be effective. As such, while all Generasi locations participated in PNPM-Rural from 2010
onwards, the Generasi TA and facilitation structure remained in place, rather than relying on
existing PNPM-Rural facilitators.
The design enabled Generasi: (i) to build upon the achievements of the PNPM-Rural system to
achieve significant economies of scale; (ii) to take advantage of the social capital built through the
implementation of PNPM-Rural for communities to plan and implement local development sub-
projects; (iii) to implement a community-based poverty targeting mechanism that enabled flexible
adjustments to beneficiary lists as required to mitigate the impact of economic shocks; (iv) to create
opportunities for communities to take action on the basis of a collective action model, in which
villagers meet with local service providers to achieve improvements in terms of the specified health
and education indicators by addressing small-scale supply-side constraints; and (v) to maintain the
necessary flexibility to add financing every year to support the phased expansion.
However, the Project design had several shortcomings, including: (i) PDO-level KPIs had an end-
of-project target date of December 2010, which did not correspond with the December 2012 closing
date of the Grant; (ii) KPIs and IOIs specific to Generasi did not capture aspects of improved local
governance in health and education; (iii) AF cycles necessitated midstream revisions to Generasi’s
budget, which caused implementation delays and distracted the GoI and Bank teams from focusing
on implementation quality; (iv) the capacity of a single Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and TA


5Implementation   Completion and Results Report (ICR No. 3281 of January 27, 2015) for the Fourth National Program
for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas (Loan. 8079).
6
  Olken, B.A., J. Onishi, and S. Wong - Indonesia’s PNPM Generasi Program: Final Impact Evaluation Report, World
Bank, June 2011.

                                                        6
structure to manage Generasi and PNPM-Rural during the national scale-up in 2010 was
overestimated; and (v) the implementing agency had limited technical capacity in health and
education.
GoI commitment, stakeholder involvement, and participatory processes: The National
Planning Board (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, or BAPPENAS) led the preparation
of the Project by proactively convening meetings between MoHA, Australian Aid (AusAID), and
the Bank to reach agreement on a multi-year financing plan for the use of PSF MDTF funds to co-
finance the Generasi scale-up. The design was formalized through the signing of a Memorandum
of Understanding (MoU) dated March 17, 2010, and was the basis for the 2010 Project Paper.
Risks and risk mitigation measures: At appraisal, after mitigation, the overall risk level was rated
as Moderate. This rating was deemed appropriate given the implementing agency's capacity
limitations and the overall high risk fiduciary environment that exists in Indonesia. Many of the
critical risks identified in the PNPM-Rural III PAD also applied to Generasi. Three risks were rated
as Substantial, as follows: (i) the capacity risk resulting from the implementation of the scale-up of
Generasi concurrently with the scale up of PNPM-Rural; (ii) governance risk; and (iii) financial
management risk, including in the area of procurement.
The risk analysis did not identify the need for a legally-binding mechanism to ensure that the GoI
abided by its co-financing commitments. This risk factor had an impact on the quality of planning
and budgeting, as the amount of GoI co-financing varied from year to year, and necessitated time-
intensive budget revisions. In addition, the Bank underestimated risks associated with the poor
quality and availability of basic health and education services, such as the availability of vaccines,
which affected the ability of communities to achieve Project targets.
Given the above, Quality at Entry is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The technical design was
sound and built on a robust IE of the pilot phase. The primary drawback to Quality at Entry was
the RF, which did not define PDO-level indicators beyond 2010. Most critical risks were identified
upstream, but two were missed. Weaknesses in the upstream risk assessment did not negatively
impact implementation, as the GoI and the Bank were able to tap PSF resources to mitigate risks
underestimated at appraisal during implementation.
2.2 Implementation
Overall implementation progressed well, with geographic expansion occurring on an annual basis
and according to schedule (see Table 1 above). Operational research and frequent implementation
support missions (ISMs) provided a basis for the GoI to continuously adapt and fine-tune Generasi
during implementation to respond to varied and evolving community needs and priorities.
Factors Subject to the Control of the Government or the Implementing Agency
Supporting factors
Strong political commitment: The Project secured support at the highest levels of government, as
demonstrated by the GoI's significant financial contributions and its commitment to the
establishment of the stand-alone Generasi Secretariat to facilitate the achievement of better
programming, monitoring and oversight.
Willingness to expand and strengthen Generasi’s TA and facilitation structures: The mobilization
of resources including dedicated national and provincial specialists; district consultants, including
dedicated FM consultants; and sub-district facilitators proved to be an effective measure to improve
Project management and oversight and to mitigate governance risks.
Leveraging external resources and partnerships to strengthen Project systems and impacts: The
GoI tapped PSF resources to strengthen the Project’s M&E systems, including through regular
ISMs, performance monitoring surveys, and qualitative operational research. M&E was further

                                                  7
supported by the development of a web-based MIS sufficiently adaptable to meet emerging needs.
By 2013 the implementing agency began reaching out to local civil society organizations with
expertise in local basic service delivery and existing relationships with Project communities and
local governments as a means to maximize impacts.
Challenging factors encountered during implementation
GoI budgeting and multiple AF processes: The need to appraise AFs annually, despite the existence
of a multi-year Project work plan, created implementation delays. The need to do so was related to
the restrictions of PSF donors to allocate funds to the MDTF on an annual basis only, which in turn
required annual amendments to the Project Grant Agreement. Furthermore, the GoI required signed
legal agreements to be in hand before it finalized and executed its annual budget. By 2014, the
Bank had adjusted its appraisal requirements to allow for a multi-year Project with estimated
funding requirements to be appraised up front and Grant amendments to be handled through an
exchange of letters with the GoI rather than through annual appraisals.
Cross institutional coordination impeded linking demand-and supply-side interventions: The
Project’s institutional set-up involved a partnership between MoHA and line ministries, with
MoHA responsible for community empowerment tasks and the respective line ministries
responsible for technical health and education issues. Despite the efforts of the Coordinating
Ministry for People's Welfare (Menkokesra) through the PNPM Steering Committee, coordination
with the Ministry of Health (MoH) and the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC) remained a
challenge throughout implementation. Thus, complementary supply-side interventions were not
designed specifically for Generasi target communities until 2013 when Millennium Challenge
Account-Indonesia (MCA-I) support was made available to the MoH to prepare a package of
interventions. These included the provision of training for health workers; the provision of
micronutrients; and the implementation of a communications campaign to improve the quality of
maternal and child nutrition services in Generasi target communities.
Role of local governments: Under Indonesia’s decentralized system of service delivery, district
governments are responsible for the delivery of basic health and education services. As a national
project, Generasi did not include mechanisms for district governments to influence sub-district
selection or to determine the specific health and education targets. As a result, district governments
had limited incentives to adapt local development plans and budgets to complement Generasi’s
investments.
Communities expressed a high level of demand for ECED services (See Section 6.b): It was difficult
to accommodate this demand, given that there was no reference to ECED services in the 12 defined
health and education targets.
Gender: A qualitative assessment7 noted that Generasi was successful in involving women in local
health and education decision-making and in targeting sub-project investments to women. It also
noted that, in order to achieve behavioral change related to health and nutrition practices, greater
efforts were needed to provide men with information on maternal and child health, nutrition, and
education issues. (See Section 3.5.a and Section 6.d)
Quality and retention of facilitators: Another challenge related to the quality of facilitators and the
Project’s ability to retain facilitators with a background in basic health and/or education. In general,
this challenge was less significant in Java than on the outer islands, where competition with the
private and other sectors and/or a general lack of human resources were more significant factors.
The Project had to adapt to the lack of human resources outside of Java by pursuing a strategy of


7Shatifan, N. (2011) “Gender equality as a key dimension for improved maternal and child nutrition to reduce
stunting,” Unpublished report prepared for the Millennium Challenge Corporation.

                                                          8
mobilizing generalists with knowledge of health and education issues, rather than sector specialists.
(See Section 6.c). However, facilitators' heavy administrative workload limited the time they could
spend with community members in the field.
Effectiveness of risk mitigation
Executing Agency Implementation Capacity Risk: This risk was successfully mitigated by
providing technical support under Components Three and Four to improve project management; to
strengthen the Project Secretariat; to strengthen the web-based MIS and complaints handling
system; and to monitor implementation progress. Technical risks were mitigated in part through
the use of Bank-executed resources provided through the PSF. The use of these resources enabled
Bank teams to provide technical health and education inputs and to facilitate linkages with MoH
and MoEC.
Governance risks: Measures to mitigate governance risks were generally successful. However,
ensuring implementation of an effective anti-corruption strategy 8 to identify and resolve cases
required ongoing attention.
Financial Management (FM) risks: These risks were successfully9 mitigated by: (i) expanding the
external audit coverage reach to a minimum level of 20 percent of Project sub-districts; (ii)
mobilizing full-time district FM consultants; (iii) mobilizing dedicated FM Specialists and
Complaints Handling Specialists at the national level; (iv) strengthening the oversight of
disbursement and complaints handling processes through the rolling out of a web-based system;
and (v) revising the internal audit manual.
Risks related to planning and budgeting: These risks were exacerbated by requirements for a full
appraisal for each annual tranche of AF. The Bank was proactive in mitigating these risks, which
were addressed by streamlining the appraisal procedure for the follow-on Generasi project.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
(a)    M&E design
Generasi’s PDO was the same as that of its parent project, PNPM-Rural III. However, the three
PDO-level KPIs specific to Generasi had 2010 end dates, despite the fact that Generasi’s
implementation schedule ran to the end of 2012. Contrary to general practice for AF Project Papers,
by August 2, 2010, the AF Project Paper lacked a detailed M&E section. However, Annex 1 to the
AF paper did expand the PNPM-Rural III RF to include the 12 health and education related targets
at the IOI level. The IOIs were appropriate for measure progress towards achieving the PDO, even
if annualized values were not assigned in the RF. Additional M&E activities were implemented to
measure IOI achievement beyond what was defined in the 2010 Project Paper.
(b)    M&E implementation
The GoI and Bank dedicated a substantial effort to correcting the original weaknesses of the RF to
ensure that the GoI had the data needed to improve Project performance. With Bank support, the



8Generasi  used multiple sources to detect and report issues of leakage, fraud and corruption; including: (a) complaints by
community members and other program stakeholders through available complaint channels (web, SMS, email, mail,
telephone, and in-person). The web based Complaints Handling System (CHS), SMS and email gateway are used jointly
by Generasi and PNPM-Rural; (b) reports from PNPM facilitators and consultants; (c) audits by the GoI audit agency
(BPKP); (d) PSF and joint implementation support missions; (e) NGO reports; and (f) media reports. All complaints
received are recorded in the CHS Application/Database. PSF regularly tracks cases based on information from media,
field missions, the CHS, and other sources and shares it with GoI to ensure consistency in reporting and follow-up.
9Audit findings by BPKP for FY 2013 amounted to IDR 317 million or less than US$ 32,000 or 0.07 percent of IDR

446.9 billion total disbursements in 2013.

                                                            9
GoI developed an M&E strategy specific to Generasi during Project implementation. This strategy
included: (i) the strengthening of the web-based MIS, with the Bank providing substantial support
to strengthen and expand the system as the Project expanded geographically; (ii) the
implementation of two qualitative studies; 10 and (iii) the implementation of a Performance
Monitoring Survey in 2013 and 2014.
Given that the process of uploading MIS data to the web-based application experienced time lags,
the Bank and the GoI established and monitored a target for the proportion of villages uploading
data to the MIS (80% of Project villages by July of each calendar year). The level reached was 75
percent in 2010; 70 percent in 2011; 76 percent in 2012; 76 percent in 2013; and (at the time of the
writing of this ICR) around 40 percent for 2014.11 As anticipated, MIS quality assurance practices
continued to require improvement, even though efforts were undertaken to regularly assess the
bottlenecks in the functioning of the MIS.
By 2013, the growth in the scale and profile of Generasi resulted in an increased demand for data
on implementation progress from key stakeholders, which the MIS alone could not provide. To
address this, PMD requested Bank support to implement the Performance Monitoring Survey
(PMS).12 This survey used a small cluster sampling methodology that enabled an assessment of
how the Project was performing on average across all participating villages. The PMS
complemented the MIS, providing an additional means by which Generasi could support the GoI’s
medium-term strategy of strengthening the collection and analysis of performance data.
(c)   M&E utilization
Data collected from different sources, including the MIS, the PMS and ISMs, assisted GoI and the
Bank to (i) identify and remedy quality issues and to incorporate better controls as Generasi
progressed; (ii) improve the control of fund flows and the level of accountability for sub-grants;
(iii) escalate issues to PMD management when appropriate; and (iv) provide information on project
performance to stakeholders.
Generasi’s M&E system was not designed to substitute for health and education data collected by
the respective line ministries and local government agencies. Instead, the system had an explicit
community empowerment focus, with community members being trained to collect and analyze
health and education data on a monthly basis. The use of this methodology proved to be an
important tool to enable community members and facilitators to engage with local service providers
to discuss issues related to service delivery gaps and constraints. Overall, M&E Design is rated as
Modest.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards.
Generasi was rightly classed as a Category B project. As was the case with PNPM-Rural III, four
safeguard policies were triggered: (i) environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01); (ii) natural habitats
(OP/BP 4.04); (iii) indigenous peoples (OP/BP 4.10); and (iv) involuntary resettlement (OP/BP


10 (i) Mc Laughlin K., Indonesia Village Health Institutions – A Diagnostic - Unpublished manuscript. 2013; and (ii)
Opportunities and Approaches for Better Nutrition Outcomes through PNPM Generasi - A Qualitative Study. PNPM
Support Facility (PSF) and Poverty Reduction Support Facility (PRSF). February 2014.
11 At the time of writing 2014 MIS data is in the process of being uploaded.
12 Objectives of the PMS include: (i) To obtain reliable estimates of community performance indicators; (ii) To gather

information about beneficiaries’ utilization of health and education services; (iii)To gather information about mothers’
health and nutrition knowledge and practices; (iv) To assess the community empowerment aspect of Generasi e.g.
beneficiaries’ participation in planning and implementation; beneficiaries’ knowledge and perception and (v) To obtain
qualitative assessment on Generasi implementation focusing on aspects such as service providers’ capacity, facilitation
process, local level coordination, supervision and monitoring and accountability mechanism.

                                                          10
4.12). Generasi AFs continued to apply the PNPM-Rural Environmental and Social Safeguards,
Indigenous and Vulnerable Peoples, and Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy frameworks.
These instruments were embedded in the PNPM-Rural and Generasi Project Guidelines and
Operational Manuals and were used to trigger safeguards policies.
Environmental Assessment (EA) and Natural Habitats: No stand-alone EA (including an
Environmental Management Plan) was necessary. An Environmental Management Framework,
incorporating Natural Habitats screening and mitigation requirements was developed and was
incorporated into the PNPM-Rural operational process. In country disclosure took place on July
21, 2010, and disclosure through Infoshop took place on September 12, 2011. Generasi sub-projects
were small in scale, with Project funds of a relatively low value invested in infrastructure sub-
projects. ISMs conducted throughout Project implementation found no evidence of adverse
environmental impacts as a result of the implementation of Generasi sub-projects, either in general
or on natural habitats.
Indigenous Peoples (IP): An Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning Framework was developed
under PNPM-Rural III, with the principles of participation and inclusion being embedded in
Generasi’s design. In country disclosure took place on July 21, 2010 and disclosure through
Infoshop took place on September 12, 2011. Generasi provided incentives for communities and
facilitators to include all community members in Generasi activities, including IP. Implementation
support missions carried out over the period of the Project included consultations with IP
communities in various provinces. These missions found no evidence of adverse social impacts.
Involuntary Resettlement: The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework developed
under PNPM-Rural III was applied to Generasi. In country disclosure took place on July 21, 2010
and disclosure through Infoshop took place on September 12, 2011. The Project financed the
rehabilitation and expansion of local health facilities and schools on land already owned. In the
event that additional land was needed in order to facilitate the expansion of the facility, such land
would be donated and the donation process documented. Thus, no land acquisition was financed
under the Project. Project consultants and facilitators at different levels ensured implementation in
accordance with this framework according to procedures specified in the Operations Manual.
The Project’s Safeguards instruments were revised in 2013 to maintain consistency with the
simplified instruments applied under PNPM-Rural IV. Safeguard guidelines for PNPM-Generasi
were defined in the new Implementation Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards
(IGSES), which was satisfactorily prepared and disclosed on November 20, 2013, and was re-
disclosed on December 16, 2013. While the IGSES has been distributed to facilitators, some
additional efforts were necessary to ensure that these guidelines are well understood and applied.
A safeguards thematic review was conducted by the Bank in mid-2014, with this review finding no
serious adverse environmental or social impacts in Project locations.
Fiduciary
Better Governance Action Plan: Generasi utilized the PNPM-Rural III Better Governance Action
Plan (BGAP). These measures built on more than a decade of field experience and specific research
trials. The key features of the framework13 were solid, with the guiding principle underlying the
anti-corruption program encouraging multiple stakeholder involvement, not just the GoI or the
Bank, in oversight and action. The BGAP included a system to identify and resolve cases of suspec-
ted mismanagement, fraud or corruption, including mainly embezzlement, budget mark-ups and




13Local control of funds, beneficiaries targeting by village cadres, Generasi internal control, internal and external audits,

village level social control, code of ethics, complaints handling and sanctions

                                                            11
price-fixing by Financial Management Unit (Unit Pengelola Keuangan, or UPK) personnel and
Village Implementation Team (Tim Pengelola Kegiatan, or TPK) members.
In the 2013-201414 period, there were 59 recorded cases of suspected mismanagement,15 of which
54 involved cases of fraud and/or corruption, four cases related to non-compliance and one case
related to force majeure. The fraud and/or corruption cases involved a total value of misused funds
of IDR 3.09 billion, of which IDR 1.86 billion (60%) has been recovered. Twenty-five cases (46%)
were resolved,16 while the others are currently being dealt with by Project consultants, facilitators,
and communities.
An effective sanction was the suspension of Project disbursements to sub-districts with unresolved
cases of fraud and corruption. Finally, it should be noted that Generasi did not include a revolving
loan fund component, the highest risk component in PNPM-Rural.
Financial Management (FM): The Project complied with FM policies. It developed an online
disbursement application database system at the district level, with this system enabling users to
submit the disbursement order (SP2D) to the Project Secretariat. This resulted in a better managed
IFR process, with the Project producing complete and on-time IFRs without backlogs (outstanding
claims). The Project received unqualified opinions from the external auditor in 2011, 2012 and
2013.17 Audit coverage reached 29 percent in 2011; 54 percent in 2012; and 32 percent in 2013.
This coverage is considerably above the target of a minimum of 20 percent of Generasi locations.
The Project’s FM performance improved over time, due in part to the mobilization of additional
FM consultants at the national and district levels. Quarterly internal audit reports were generally
submitted on time, but the implementation of internal audits remained a challenge. This was largely
due to the fact that FM facilitators had difficulties in achieving the target sample size due to sub-
optimal time management and the difficulties faced by PMD in allocating sufficient time for
internal audit activities at the sub-district and village level.
Procurement
The procurement of the first Administrative Services Firm (ASF) was conducted in 2012, at the
point when the responsibility for the implementation of Generasi was shifted between Directorates
within PMD. However, the process was delayed as a result of unsatisfactory Bid Evaluation
Reports. The delay was exacerbated by processing and response times within the Bank. Following
the resolution of this issue, procurement at the national level has been generally carried out in
compliance with the Procurement Plan and was rated as Moderately Satisfactory in the latest ISR
(November 2014). Improvements were recorded, with the transition to applying the improved
procurement procedures under the revised Operational Technical Guideline (PTO)18 underway, and
community procurement carried out in compliance with the existing PTO. Furthermore, no
significant issues were noted during annual ex-post reviews conducted by the Bank.




14 Reporting on cases of fraud and corruption directly related to Generasi began being reported separately from PNPM-
Rural after the Project was formally delinked in late 2012.
15The National Management Consultant’s October 2014 Report
16 There were six cases resolved through litigation with average days to resolve 476 days, and 19 cases resolved through

mediation / non litigation with average days to resolve 288 days.
172014 Independent audit result from BPKP (Indonesia’s central auditing agency) will be available by June 30, 2015.
18 The revised PTO of the PNPM-Rural 2012-2015 project became effective in April 2014 and was applicable to Generasi.

The revised version built on lessons learned related to non-compliance against procedures in community procurements.

                                                          12
Generasi initiated improvements19 in the bidding process were used by the implementing agency,
with an increased number of items bid competitively. This resulted in improvements in economy
of contract and improved transparency in the bidding process, as it enabled quicker processing and
a simplification of the tasks of both the bidder and the bid assessors. The revised bidding documents
are now also used by PNPM-Rural 2012-2015 (P128832, IBRD Loan No-8217).
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Operation and maintenance of health and education infrastructure: In education, Generasi
mainly financed the rehabilitation of existing classrooms; the construction of additional classrooms
and improved sanitation facilities in existing schools; and the establishment of satellite classrooms
to enable existing schools to serve remote hamlets. Operational costs and maintenance were the
responsibility of the district education departments. In health, the Project financed the construction
of new village-level health facilities; the rehabilitation of existing village-level health facilities; and
the construction of improved sanitation facilities at health facilities. The maintenance of integrated
community health post (Posyandu) activities was the responsibility of communities, whether
through village government or other funding sources, while the operation and maintenance of other
village-level health facilities were the responsibility of district health departments.
The PNPM Generasi Project (TF014769)20 is the follow-on to this Project. It was appraised at a
value greater than US$ 300 million, including up to US$ 151.7 million in Bank co-financing. The
Project will continue to utilize the incentivized sub-district grant model, operating in the eight
existing Project provinces and in three new provinces through the end of 2017. The Project attracted
more than US$ 81 million in grant financing from the MCA-I. As a stand-alone Project, the
Project’s PDO is “to empower local communities in poor, rural sub-districts in project provinces
to increase the utilization of health and education services.” This PDO has been tailored
specifically to PNPM Generasi outputs and outcomes. The above-mentioned long-term IE will
identify the extent to which community-driven approaches can address shortcomings in service
delivery outcomes, independent of investments in service delivery systems. It will measure
Generasi’s impacts on priority outcomes over a seven or eight-year period, and inform Ministry of
Villages, Disadvantaged Areas, and Transmigration (MoV), MoHA, and MoF on CDD
mechanisms that can be implemented systematically and in a cost-effective manner through the
Village Law.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating for Relevance of Objective: Substantial
The Project’s development objectives are relevant both to current GoI poverty reduction objectives
and to the Bank’s 2013-2015 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Indonesia. The 2013-2015
CPS identifies six thematic areas that form the core of the Bank’s engagement in Indonesia. Of
these six thematic areas, Generasi directly contributes to two: (i) promoting communities, by
protecting the vulnerable and improving health outcomes, and (ii) gender and governance. Generasi
is the Bank’s only operation that directly addresses the causes of maternal mortality and childhood
stunting in Indonesia. Similarly, Generasi directly contributes to GoI objectives of reducing poverty
and inequality by improving access to quality basic health and education services for the poor and



19Previous  to this, only the management fee of the contractors was competitive whereas other items were fixed in the
RfT. Improvements were also made to criteria as well as scope of service requirements. A number of items are still
defined in the RfT to ensure quality implementation including salaries for consultants as well as travel expenses.
20Refer to Report No.: 829, dated June 23, 2014 for details.



                                                        13
vulnerable. The GoI’s strategy emphasizes a multi-sectoral approach to addressing the multiple
factors contributing to stubbornly high levels of maternal mortality and childhood malnutrition.
The strategy recognizes the important role that community empowerment has in overcoming
barriers to service utilization.
Rating for Relevance of Design and Implementation: Modest
As described in detail in section 3.2, Project components financed inputs that produced outputs and
intermediary outcomes that ultimately led to improvements in the two-part development objective
in what constitutes a robust causal chain. However, as described in Section 2.3, the original design
of the RF had several shortcomings, and the relevance of design is therefore rated Modest.
The Project’s multi-faceted M&E system enabled the GoI to make regular improvements to Project
design during implementation, thus ensuring that the Project remained highly relevant to GoI
priorities. Over the lifetime of the Project, improvements included: (i) the addition of two
community-level target indicators that incentivize pregnant women, mothers, fathers and caregivers
to participate in enhanced nutrition counseling sessions delivered through integrated community
health posts; (ii) changes to community-level education target indicators to incentivize
communities to focus Project resources on hard-to-reach school-aged children, including drop outs
and children with disabilities, and on ensuring that students make the transition from primary school
to junior secondary school; and (iii) a refined gender strategy that focuses on engaging men in
discussions and decision making processes related to investments and behaviors in health, nutrition,
and education. These design changes came into effect in early 2014 through Bank no objection to
the revised Generasi Operations Manual (PTO).
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial
Generasi had a two-part PDO: Part (a) was to improve socio-economic conditions and Part (b) was
to improve local governance conditions. This assessment gives the two parts equal weight.
Generasi’s contribution to “Improved Socio-economic Conditions”: Rating: Substantial
There are two mechanisms through which Generasi improved socio-economic conditions. First,
Generasi inputs (including the provision of scholarships, uniforms and books to poor students; the
provision of antenatal care and care for children; and subsidies for transportation costs for health
visits and schools) reduced beneficiaries’ out of pocket expenses, leaving them with additional
funds for other needs, thus improving their socio-economic conditions. Second, Generasi improved
the rate of utilization of health and education service among beneficiaries (attendance at school;
antenatal care; immunization; growth monitoring; etc.), which is likely to improve beneficiaries’
socio-economic outcomes in the long run.
Communities allocated Generasi block grants for a wide variety of purposes that directly reduce
communities’ out of pocket health and education expenditures. As an illustration, school fees of
different types account for at least 20 percent of total household education expenditure; the cost of
uniforms for primary school account for up to a third of households’ education expenditures in rural
areas; while the share of transport costs expenditure almost triples in rural areas between primary
and junior secondary education (from 6% to 16%) (UNICEF 2011). In 2011, communities allocated
on average 20 percent of the total value of Generasi block grants towards the provision of school
uniforms and books and to scholarships and transportation to school for poor students.
Second, Generasi was oriented towards improving the utilization rate of 12 priority health and
education services. These were selected to represent health and educational behaviors that are under
the direct control of villagers. By improving the rate of utilization of basic services among
communities, Generasi was likely to improve beneficiaries’ socio-economic conditions both in the

                                                 14
short term and the long term. In the short term, improvements in the rate of utilization of health
services such as immunization were likely to reduce the spread of communicable diseases, which
would reduce community members’ out of pocket health expenditures. Deliveries assisted by
skilled health personnel (a Generasi sub-project investment) are less likely to result in the death of
the mother or child during or immediately following childbirth. In the long run, the increased rate
of utilization of services such as weight checks, Vitamin A supplements and immunizations should
translate into a reduction of acute and chronic malnutrition (stunting and wasting), which would
directly improve individuals’ socio-economic circumstances in the long term. Further, the
rehabilitation of health infrastructure; funding for transportation; the dissemination of information
of the benefits of health and education services, particularly related to maternal and child health;
and the provision of supplemental nutrition were likely to reduce malnutrition.
The likelihood that, over time, Generasi will reduce acute malnutrition and chronic malnutrition,
especially in the poorest provinces, was also high. According to the results of the 2007-2009 IE,21
after 2.5 years of program implementation, the rate of occurrence of childhood malnutrition
declined by 2.2 percent, about a 10 percent reduction from the control level. This reduction in
malnutrition was strongest in areas with a higher rate of malnutrition prior to project
implementation, most notably in Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT), where underweight rates were
reduced by 8.8 percentage points, a 20 percent decline compared to control areas; severe
underweight rates were reduced by 5.5 percentage points, a 33 percent decline; and severe stunting
was reduced by 6.6 percentage points, a 21 percent decline compared to control areas.
By improving the overall health of pregnant women and by reducing acute malnutrition among
children in their first 1000 days of life, Generasi was likely to contribute to children’s ability to
participate in education. There is an abundance of empirical evidence linking maternal and early
child health and nutrition interventions to educational outcomes in primary school (for example,
Grantham-McGregor et al. 2013). Severe malnutrition in early childhood can result in impaired
cognitive development (Wai-Poi; Pollitt; Granthan-McGregor et al. 1999), with poorer cognitive
function, poorer motor skills, lower activity levels, less interaction with their environment and a
lower rate of skill acquisition (Lasky et al. 1981; Johnston et al. 1987; Granthan-McGregor et al.
1997, 1999). Glewwe and King (2001) argue that malnutrition that persists into the second year of
life is most critical for cognitive development. Analysis based on longitudinal data provides
evidence of the direct effect of child malnutrition on education, wages and income (Hoddinott et
al. 2008; Wai Poi 2008).
By including school enrolment as a target, Generasi incentivized communities to identify and assist
out-of-school children not benefiting from other forms of assistance. Communities allocated a
portion of the Generasi block grant to help poor students with transportation to school, fees, and
uniforms and books. In addition, communities allocated funds to help pay the salaries of contract
teachers, which helps to ensure that schools are staffed appropriately. Through these sub-project
investments, Generasi increased the likelihood that youth complete secondary education.
Generasi’s contribution to “Improved Local Governance Conditions”: Rating: Substantial
While not defined explicitly in the PNPM-Rural III RF, it was expected that Generasi would
improve local governance conditions by: (i) increasing the level of participation of women and the
poor in health and education-related decision making processes; (ii) equipping communities with
the skills, resources, and knowledge necessary to engage local service providers collaboratively in
the identification of solutions to barriers to accessing services; (iii) increasing awareness among
local service providers (teachers, midwives, health workers, school principals) of the health and



21   See Olken, Onishi, and Wong 2011

                                                 15
education-related needs of poor community members and being more responsive to these needs;
and (iv) improving the planning, utilization, oversight, and accountability for Project resources at
all levels of implementation.
This section draws on the following data sources to demonstrate the Project’s contribution to these
areas of improved local governance conditions: (i) Project MIS data on participation and direct
beneficiaries; (ii) secondary quantitative data sets; and (iii) qualitative research.
Increased participation of women and poor in health and education decision-making processes:
MIS data suggests that women played an important role in Project decision-making processes and
benefited substantially from Project investments. Women comprised 63 percent of participants in
Project socialization, planning, and monitoring meetings in 2010; 69 percent in 2011; 69 percent
in 2012; and 71 percent in 2013. Over the period from 2010-2013, 57-58 percent of direct Project
beneficiaries were women or girls, which suggests that relatively high levels of women’s
participation in Project decision-making resulted in a relatively high proportion of Project
investments being targeted directly to benefit women and girls.
Improved ability of communities to influence investment decisions by the GoI and village and
district governments: The 2011 Potensi Desa (PODES) survey, a national census conducted once
every three years, shows that in Generasi villages, on average, PNPM-Rural and other GoI sources
of funding external to Generasi were used to make significantly higher levels of investment in
health and education infrastructure than in control villages. For example, 68 percent of Generasi
villages had benefited from investments in health infrastructure, compared to 58 percent of control
villages. Seventy percent of Generasi villages had benefited from investments in education
infrastructure, compared to 50 percent of control villages. This suggests that in Generasi villages,
communities and frontline service providers were more effective at lobbying village and district
governments to make investments in health and education.
Findings from two qualitative studies, (i) Indonesia Village Health Institutions – A Diagnostic; and
(ii) Opportunities and Approaches for Better Nutrition Outcomes through PNPM Generasi - A
Qualitative Study show that Generasi facilitators improved coordination with service providers and
village governments, which resulted in these stakeholders having more information regarding
communities’ health and education needs. The Local Level Institutions (LLI) III study22 found that
the level of participation in PNPM-Rural remained strong, with high satisfaction rates being
recorded, with a widely-held perception that the PNPM-Rural was more transparent than sectoral
programs at the village level. These findings suggest that there were a number of mechanisms
through which Generasi was able to strengthen the capacity of rural communities to influence the
decisions and actions of local service providers, village, and district governments.
Improved planning, utilization, oversight, and accountability for Project resources at all levels of
implementation: Community members were empowered to own and manage the monitoring of
achievements in terms of the Project’s indicators, with reduced dependence on third parties.
Through this process, communities developed the necessary governance skills and improved
abilities to plan, implement and oversee frontline service delivery activities. As described in Section
2.4, the Project’s complaints handling mechanism enabled communities to identify cases of fraud
and corruption and to implement protocols to resolve such cases with support from Project
facilitators and the PNPM Oversight Team’s governance unit. Furthermore, the variation over time
in the type of sub-project investments suggests that community members were able to adjust annual
plans in line with evolving community needs, rather than simply replicating the previous year’s
activities.



22The   Local Level Institutions III: Overview Report. World Bank. 2013.

                                                           16
Conclusion: The analysis above shows that the Project, through the provision of incentivized block
grants, was effective in increasing the rate of utilization of most targeted health and education
services, thereby improving socio-economic conditions. The analysis also provides evidence of the
Project’s substantial contribution to improved local governance conditions through the increased
participation of women and the poor in local health and education decision-making processes; the
strengthened capacity of rural communities to influence resource allocations controlled by local
service providers, village, and district governments; and improved community capacity to diagnose
and monitor local health and education conditions, and therefore to make better use of locally
available resources to address these over time.
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial
The rating is based on the findings of four analyses of the level of efficiency of Generasi. These
findings show that: (i) the cost of Generasi is comparable to a similar program in Indonesia (see
below); (ii) Generasi creates employment opportunities for poor members of communities and
others and has the potential to increase beneficiaries’ income in the long term; (iii) the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) of the expanded version of Generasi yields a cost benefit ratio of 1.90. In
other words, for every dollar invested, the return for beneficiaries is US$ 1.90; and (iv) Generasi
infrastructure sub-projects, as in PNPM-Rural, are less expensive and of the same or better quality
than line agency funded projects.
Cost efficiency of Generasi compared to Hopeful Family Program (Program Keluarga Harapan,
or PKH): A cost effectiveness analysis of Generasi was published in 2014.23 The analysis suggests
that the incentivized version of Generasi had a real cost per point of about US$ 8, while the non-
incentivized version had a real cost per point of about US$ 11. 24 The cost estimates for the
incentivized version of the health component was US$ 7 per point, while for the education
component it was US$ 13 per point. The cost of additional child weight checks ranged from
US$ 16-22; the cost of preventing one case of child malnutrition ranged from US$ 384-528; the
cost of ensuring that a single child received the recommended supplementation regime of Vitamin
A ranged from US$ 160-220; while the cost of enrolling an additional child in primary school
ranged from US$ 200-275. In these terms, the cost of Generasi is roughly comparable to an
alternative household-based conditional cash transfer program, PKH, which was piloted and
evaluated at the same time as Generasi. While the data that was used to calculate the cost
effectiveness is from 2007 to 2009, because of relatively similar unit costs and levels of economic
growth, it can be confidently stated that these figures are still relevant.
The ERR of Generasi: Impact on Beneficiaries’ Income and Employment:25 Beginning in early
2013, the Bank, in collaboration with Monash University (Victoria, Australia), undertook an
analysis of the ERR of Generasi and additional supply- and demand-side components aimed at
improving maternal and child nutrition program, referred to as the “Community-Based Stunting
Reduction Program”. As part of the analysis, the researchers modeled the ERR of Generasi to find
that benefits from Generasi grants include reductions in rates of child malnutrition and stunting and
increases in rates of school participation, both of which have a positive effect on future earnings.
Results from the Generasi IE show a 9.6 percent reduction in the rate of incidence of severe
malnutrition amongst 0-3 year olds and a 5.6 percent increase in the rate of participation of children


23 Ben Olken, Junko Onishi and Susan Wong (2014). Should Aid Reward Performance? Evidence from a field experiment
on health and education in Indonesia. Online Appendices. Available at: http://economics.mit.edu/files/9380
24 The assumptions and analysis strategy are described in detail in Annex 3.
25This and subsequent section come from the Additional Financing Project Paper, World Bank (2014), “Project Paper on

a Proposed Additional PNPM Support Facility Grant.”

                                                        17
aged 13-15 years in junior secondary school. Estimates from Alderman and Behrman (2006) show
that averting stunting and low birth rate results in an average 7.5 percent increase in income once
a child is of earning age (15 years old). Furthermore, a Mincerian wage equation found that an extra
year of education increases earnings in Indonesia by an average of 6 percent (Mincer, 1974). The
increase in education and earnings results in an extra US$ 4.82 per year per adult from when they
start earning until retirement.26
The Generasi sub-district grant modeled in the ERR calculation was also found to have an
additional stimulus effect by generating employment through the construction of health and
education infrastructure.
ERR of MCA-I-Generasi “Community Based Stunting Reduction Program”: Cost Benefit Ratio:
According to an analysis of the ERR of the Community-Based Stunting Reduction Program, the
benefit-cost ratio associated with Generasi was found to be US$ 1.90 for every dollar invested. This
means that for every US$ 1 spent, individuals and communities in the integrated program receive
a return of US$ 1.90 that is derived primarily from: (i) income gains from increased education; (ii)
savings from chronic disease averted; (iii) gains from the prevention of diarrhea; (iv) income gains
for those who would have lived; and (v) income gains for those who would have died. The benefits
of this US$ 1.90 were distributed as follows: US$ 1.14 to extremely poor and poor members of the
community; US$ 0.49 to the near poor; and US$ 0.25 to the non-poor.
Efficiency of health and education infrastructure investments: A technical evaluation of
infrastructure financed through PNPM-Rural shows that, in general, PNPM infrastructure sub-
projects are at least 15 percent to 25 percent less expensive to design and implement than similar
line Ministry-funded projects.27 Table 4 shows the unit costs for health and education infrastructure.
Generasi’s unit costs are the same or similar to PNPM-Rural costs.
Table 4: PNPM vs. Government Unit Cost Analysis

                                   PNPM Costs (IDR/units)                    Government Costs (IDR/Units)
   Sub-project       Unit         Low    Average          High                Low     Average          High            PNPM/
                                                                                                                        Gov’t
                                                                                                                         (%)
 School                M2     540,000         810,000        1,080,000                     930,000                        87
 rehabilitation
 School                M2       50,000        138,000         280,000      103,000         138,500        174,000        100
 furniture
 Public latrines       M2     530,000       1,040,000        1,370,000     590,000       1,672,500      2,755,000         62
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Relevance: Generasi’s PDO is relevant to the Bank’s CPS and the GoI’s aim of reducing poverty
through improved access to health and education services. Generasi remains the Bank’s largest
operation directly focused on causes of maternal mortality in Indonesia. However, shortcomings in
the design of the original RF reduced the Project’s overall relevance.
Efficacy: The analysis above, drawing from a range of quantitative and qualitative and primary and
secondary data sources, shows that Generasi has demonstrated substantial progress towards
achieving both parts of its PDO.



26Note  that this increase in school outcomes was assumed to occur at age 13, thus the labor productivity effect was
realized two years later at age 15 in the modeled ERR.
27Technical Evaluation of Infrastructure – PNPM-Rural & Other Funding Sources. PSF. July 2012.



                                                        18
Efficiency: Several studies indicate that Generasi achieved a substantial level of efficiency and cost-
effectiveness.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Gender Aspects. Worldwide, interventions intended to improve health and education outcomes
tend to emphasize the role of mothers, who are regarded as the single most important caregiver in
a child’s life. The majority of participants in Project activities and the majority of direct Project
beneficiaries were women. However, it is recognized that household decision-making on health
and education is influenced by male members of the household. Therefore, Generasi adjusted some
of its processes and interventions to raise men’s awareness of maternal health issues so that they
would support household investments in maternal and child health and nutrition services. In the
most recent revisions to Generasi, the GoI has recognized the importance of the role that men may
play in determining a child’s health and nutritional status by introducing an indicator that
incentivizes male caregivers’ participation in pregnancy, parenting and nutrition classes.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening. Generasi has firmly established the viability of the CDD
approach and developed significant assets that may enable it to influence the MoV in the
implementation of Village Law. These include sub-district and district facilitators who have been
trained in basic health and education issues; governance and anti-corruption practices; and social
and environmental Safeguards screening procedures. In addition, the provincial and district
government implementing units, the PMD, and the Sub-district Project Officer, based within the
sub-district governor’s (Camat) office, have also gained exposure to basic health and education
issues and experience in coordinating across local government departments responsible for health
and education service delivery.  
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Field visits and beneficiary consultations: In addition to meetings, interviews and workshops at
the national level, a joint team of the Bank and the GoI conducted visits to three provinces
(Gorontalo, West Java and NTT). The mission consulted with provincial, district, sub-district and
village level implementers and beneficiaries to address issues of relevance in the local context,
including the impact of Generasi; the sustainability of Project efforts; and the compilation of
lessons learned for expansion or replication. The missions met with a total of 233 people, of whom
124 were women.
Stakeholder workshops: On March 20, 2015, PMD invited key stakeholders, including
representatives of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), MoEC, MoH, and other MoHA agencies to attend
a workshop in Jakarta to comment on the initial findings presented through this ICR. The majority
of participants agreed that Generasi has a substantial, direct positive impact on beneficiaries; that
it generates lessons learned for demand-supply interaction at the local level; and that it can serve
as a strategy to improve frontline service delivery in the future. A summary of issues discussed at
this workshop is included in Annex 6.
An important message to come out of this and other workshops related to the need to prepare for
the phase-out of Generasi in 2017 to ensure that national and sub-national governments have the
budgetary space to accommodate some of the activities. This includes providing assistance to sub-
national governments to prepare villages to fund a number of project activities and strengthening
the role of the local governments in the further taking over, adapting and replicating Generasi
activities to ensure on-going sustainable impacts on both demand- and supply-side.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


                                                  19
Risks related to the development outcome include:
Political Risk and Financing Implications: These risks are Modest, as the new government is
supportive of CDD efforts and has made health and education an integral component of the fifth
priority of its nine-priority agenda (Nawa Cita) for the 2014-2019 period. On the other hand, the
GoI’s commitment to implementing the Village Law may place significant pressure on the national
budget, which may affect the availability of funds for other village development programs.
Nonetheless, the GoI has included Generasi in its 2015-2019 National Medium-Term Development
Plan, a document which strongly influences internal funding decisions.
Institutional changes: These risks are rated Modest. Generasi is impacted by the institutional
changes that followed the promulgation of the Village Law 6/2014 and by the shifting of the
responsibility for the management of Generasi from MoHA to MoV. GoI has committed to rehiring
and back paying all project staff, thereby mitigating the risk of losing capacity built up through
previous years of implementation. The Bank task team will continue to provide enhanced
implementation support, drawing on PSF resources to ensure that Project implementation gets back
on track.
Technical risks: The technical risk is rated as Low, as the capacities of village facilitators have
improved significantly, enabling them to lead communities in areas such as activity identification,
beneficiary selection, the implementation of project activities, and interactions with frontline
service providers. The relatively small size of Generasi sub-district grants relative to anticipated
levels of transfers through the Village Law scheduled to begin in 2015 means that village facilitators
and Project facilitators will require an expanded set of skills to ensure that Generasi’s problem
diagnosis and participatory planning processes feed into village development plans.
Social risks: These risks are rated as Low. They relate to communities suffering from fatigue and
failing to maintain enthusiasm for the Project. These risks can be mitigated by ensuring that
Generasi is closely linked to local governments; technical agencies are more intensely involved in
fostering a sense of community ownership; and that volunteer cadres and facilitators are provided
with funds from the increased village budgets.
Based on the above, the overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The Bank introduced a set of design improvements over the pilot phase based on rigorous IE
findings. However, the lack of a dedicated TTL for PNPM Generasi until after the original AF was
designed and approved meant that there were design weaknesses, most notably: (i) an RF that
included PDO-level indicators with target end dates that did not correspond with the Project’s
implementation period; and (ii) the limited capacity of the implementing agency to manage PNPM-
Rural support projects such as Generasi while simultaneously overseeing the nationwide scale-up
of PNPM-Rural.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
After early delays, the Bank mobilized a multi-disciplinary team with substantial experience in
supervising previous Bank-financed CDD projects in Indonesia operating in a widely dispersed
area. The team was based in Jakarta to enable it to provide rapid support. Its location in Jakarta had

                                                 20
the added advantage of enabling it to draw from PSF resources to provide enhanced implementation
support focused on technical and fiduciary issues.28 PSF resources enabled the Bank to mobilize
support from other sections of the Bank, including Health, Nutrition, and Population (HNP) and
Education, and from donor partners, most notably DFAT (formerly AusAid), to provide TA and
enhanced support to the implementing agency and to other key Project stakeholders to mitigate
design shortcomings during implementation. The team was able to identify and to address
proactively emerging issues that might have affected the achievement of the PDO by providing
support to the GoI. Amongst other actions, this support was utilized to develop a separate project
management structure for Generasi within the implementing agency; to mobilize separate firms
from those under PNPM-Rural to manage national and provincial Generasi specialists; to tailor
internal audit protocols to the nature of Generasi sub-project investments; to develop an index of
health and education supply-readiness that was used to prioritize project expansion; to provide TA
to revise Generasi community health and education targets; and to further develop its gender
strategy.
The Project Financial Management Specialist drew on PSF resources to mobilize a team of
dedicated FM specialists to provide intensive implementation support during all ISMs; to closely
monitor the implementing agency’s compliance with Bank fiduciary policies; to identify relevant
actions, including the mobilization of additional FM TA within the project; and to revise internal
audit protocols.
Similarly, the Project Procurement Specialist provided regular support to the task team and the
implementing agency. While some delays were experienced in responding to certain GoI prior
review requests related to the procurement of the first ASF contract, response times improved
substantially over the period of implementation, resulting in a strong working relationship with the
implementing agency. This contributed to the fast, effective procurement of the second ASF
contract in 2013.
Compliance with Social and Environmental Safeguards was also a focus of regular ISMs. When
shortcomings in the documentation of voluntary land donations under PNPM-Rural III were
identified in 2011-2012, Safeguards specialists worked closely with the PNPM-Rural and Generasi
task teams to develop the IGSES and to support the implementing agency to apply it through the
Project TA and facilitation structure.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The team took an extensive set of actions to address design weaknesses which included
strengthening the implementing agency’s Project Management capacity and implementing a range
of M&E activities needed to monitor Project achievements and provide relevant information to
Project stakeholders on strengths, weaknesses and required follow-up actions. In addition, during
Project implementation, the task team successfully drew on expertise from colleagues in HNP and
Education to improve Generasi’s design to focus on maternal and child nutrition; children with
disabilities; and the role of men in health and education decision-making. This process resulted in
the approval of the stand-alone Project (P132585) and of Additional Financing to a value of more
than US$300 million in the period from 2013-2017. It also resulted in the inclusion of Generasi as
an integral component of the GoI’s 2015-2019 RPJMN.
5.2 Grantee Performance




28No   Bank Budget was provided for implementation support for Generasi throughout the life of the Project.

                                                          21
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The GoI demonstrated a strong commitment to CDD and to Generasi more specifically, which it
perceived as a means of fulfilling its commitment to the achievement of the MDGs. The GoI
appreciated Generasi’s successes in linking demand and lower-level supply issues, as demonstrated
by its inclusion in the RPJMN 2015-2019 and by the annual allocation of GoI financing, which
exceeded 42 percent of the total value of the budget in the period from 2010 to 2013.
BAPPENAS provided proactive oversight and troubleshooting for project implementation, and the
state audit agency (BPKP) expanding its audit coverage to more than 20 percent of targeted sub-
districts. In addition, the level of collaboration with MoF was good. The GoI proactively requested
an extension to the closing date to December 31, 2014, as it anticipated that a portion of the sub-
district grant funds would only be utilized by July 2014. However, MoF did not act on Bank
suggestions, documented in the AF Project Papers and in early drafts of the Restructuring Paper
(Report No: RES12300), to revise the RF during Restructuring.
There were coordination challenges at the national and sub-national levels. Menkokesra, which
served as the chair of the PNPM Steering Committee, attempted to coordinate MoHA’s community
empowerment programs with sectoral line agencies. However, the effectiveness of these attempts
was limited, as structurally MoHA was overseen by the Coordinating Ministry for Politics, Law,
and Security.
Delays in budget revisions and execution, a perennial problem in Indonesia, negatively impacted
Generasi implementation, despite assurance from BAPPENAS and MoF that budget revisions
involving Grant funds could be completed quickly and out of cycle. As budget allocations were
confirmed on an annual basis and only applied to a single year, there was no mechanism for
securing upfront agreement on multi-year contributions to Generasi. Mid-year budget cuts to
MoHA also negatively affected Project implementation.
Despite these issues, the GoI was able to ensure a reasonable level of quality at preparation;
relatively smooth implementation; and compliance with Grant covenants and agreements. Thus,
the performance of GoI was rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The performance of the implementing agency, PMD, improved considerably after the delinking of
Generasi from PNPM-Rural III and after the appointment of the Directorate of Traditional and
Community Social and Cultural Empowerment as the implementing agency. The implementing
agency acted quickly to hire National and Provincial Specialists during the period when the
procurement of the Administrative Service Firm (ASF) responsible for managing Specialist
contracts was delayed in 2012; to ensure the secretariat was fully staffed and functioning; to ensure
monthly program progress reports were prepared and submitted on time; and to arrange regular
monitoring missions to cover all provinces and districts on a rotating basis. The results of joint
monitoring activities with the Bank were documented in Aide Memoires, with mutually agreed
follow-up action plans. PMD prioritized financial oversight and controls over technical health and
education issues, which resulted in improved FM ratings over the life of the Project.
The most significant management challenges for the implementing agency related to: (a) delays in
budget effectiveness; (b) allocating budgets internally in ways that were not in line with
BAPPENAS’s proposed allocations; (c) updating and distributing the PTO in a timely manner; (d)
conducting post-procurement oversight. Nevertheless, PMD did support the implementation of


                                                 22
additional M&E efforts needed to provide information on Project performance as measured in terms
of an increased number of indicators.
Taking all these factors into account, the performance of PMD was rated Moderately Satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The rating of Moderately Satisfactory reflects the support provided by the GoI, both in its capacity
as the recipient and as the implementing agency, in the implementation of the Project. Despite
repeated delays in budget execution, the Project was disbursed fully and in a timely manner in
alignment with AFs. Nevertheless, the lack of coordination between ministries, despite the efforts
of a dedicated coordinating ministry and of the PNPM Steering Committee, and the failure to adapt
the RF negatively impacted the rating.

6. Lessons Learned
a.       Demand-side efforts are sufficient to increase the rate of utilization of health and
educational services. However, complementary supply-side interventions are needed for
higher level impacts: Generasi was effective in increasing the rate of utilization of services and in
increasing service provider and community efforts to provide basic services. These are key steps to
achieving high level outcomes, such as reductions in the rate of maternal mortality. However,
communities and frontline service providers are limited in their ability to improve aspects of service
provision quality, which is affected by factors such as the procurement of inputs such as vaccines;
the district budgets for operations and maintenance; and so on. For the improved provision of
frontline services over the long term, it is necessary to ensure engagement between demand and
supply-side reform efforts.
b.        Service providers can leverage social capital and community skills built through
Generasi: Community health volunteers and ECED volunteer teachers play a critical role in
facilitating the achievement of the “final mile” of basic service delivery. A key factor underpinning
Generasi’s success has been the ability of the Project to provide resources to strengthen ongoing
community efforts in the areas of outreach and service provision. These efforts represent a major
asset on which local government efforts can build during the implementation of the Village Law.
c.      Generasi invested in building the capacities of facilitators as generalists with strong
networking capabilities, rather than as sector specialists: Given Generasi's institutional
arrangements, it was not possible to expect facilitators to serve as experts on basic health and
education issues. Rather, they needed to become effective generalists, with sufficient knowledge
of health and education issues and Indonesia’s health and education programs, while seeking to
network with local governments and CSOs to obtain technical guidance on specific issues.
d.      An effective gender strategy must focus on both women and men, rather than
exclusively on women: Specific Project interventions increased the level of participation of girls
and women in community development initiatives. However, men play a key role in decisions that
affect maternal and child welfare, such as directing household expenditures towards health and
education services and nutritious foods. Efforts must therefore be made to involve men in health
and education awareness raising, decision-making, and project implementation.
e.      Persistence and measures to build trust were required before the national
government was willing to engage in partnerships with CSOs: Through efforts of the Bank and
other partners, including DFAT, the implementing agency became convinced of the potential value
of involving CSOs, as these organizations had well-developed networks; a good understanding of
the local context; and the established goodwill required to operate in the local environment. This

                                                 23
process provided an opportunity for the CSOs to demonstrate their unique role as development
actors in their own right, enhancing community awareness raising and mobilizing and linking
communities to front-line service providers.
f.       Greater local government engagement is needed to institutionalize and sustain
Project mechanisms: Generasi was integrated in the national government budget cycle, but only
to a limited extent in district budgets. This resulted in the absence of an exit-strategy or sustainable
financing strategy at the local level, and limited the opportunity for local governments to build on
the Project's achievements or optimize the use of the assets invested in by the Project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
No comments provided.
(b) Co-financiers/Donors
DFAT provided comments on the draft ICR by email on May 28, 2015. In summary, this email
stated: “DFAT supports the report’s findings. It is a comprehensive and balanced assessment of a
program that is highly relevant to the Indonesian context and has achieved good outcomes.”
The complete comments from DFAT on the Draft ICR report are attached in Annex 8.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
On March 20, 2015, PMD organized a multi-stakeholder workshop attended by representatives of
BAPPENAS, MoF, MoHA, MoEC and MoH and the implementing agencies to discuss the
experiences and lessons learned during the implementation of the Project. Refer to Annex 6 for a
summary of the issues raised during this workshop.
No further comments on the draft report were provided by other national stakeholders.




                                                  24
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                             Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
                             Components
                                                                                (USD millions)          (USD millions)        Appraisal
Generasi Kecamatan Grants                                                                  60.73                  58.62            96.52
Consultants services and training and workshops for facilitation support
                                                                                           9.96                   6.04            60.65
under Part 2 of the Project
Consultants services, non-consultants services, and training workshops
                                                                                           2.39                   2.27            94.93
*for training and capacity building under Part 3 of the Project
Goods and incremental operating costs                                                      0.24                   0.24           102.29
                                                     Total Baseline Cost                  73.32                  67.18            91.62
Physical Contingencies
                                                                                           0.00                   0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                                                           0.00                   0.00             0.00
                                                  Total Project Costs                     73.32                  67.18            91.62
Project Preparation Costs                                                                  0.00                   0.00              .00
                                                                                           0.00                   0.00              .00
                                            Total Financing Required                      73.32                  67.18            91.62



(b) Financing
                                                                                                           Actual/Latest
                                                                      Type of Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
                      Source of Funds                                                                          Estimate
                                                                  Cofinancing    (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                                                          (USD millions)
 Trust Funds                                                                                    0.00                0.00
Indonesia - Program for Community Empowerment                                                  73.32               67.18          91.62



                                                                        25
Annex 2: Outputs by Component
The total Generasi budget in the period from 2010 to 2013 was approximately US$ 115.7
million. Of this, US$ 73.3 million was financed through TF097410. A portion of the 2013
Project budget was carried over for execution in 2014. From a total allocation of US$ 73.3
million, US$ 67.3 million was disbursed by the closing date of the TF. The remaining US$ 6.06
million has been allocated to the stand-alone project (TF14769) for execution in 2015. Table 1
below shows allocations and disbursements as of December 31, 2014.
Table 1: Allocations and Disbursements as of December 2014
                Component            Allocated       Disbursement as of        Balance as of
                                                     December 31, 2014       December 31, 2014
             Component 1           64,121,448.00             58,622,382.34         5,499,065.66
             Component 2            6,904,831,00              6,702,891.43           201,939.57
             Component 3            1,994,015,00              1,662,933.95           331,081.05
             Component 4              302,706.00                302,706.00                 0.00
             Total                 73,323,000.00             67,290,913.72         6,062,086.28
This annex demonstrates how the Project inputs produced outputs that contributed to the
achievement of the PDO, which was for villagers in PNPM-Rural locations to benefit from
improved socio-economic and local governance conditions. The causal chain is described
in detail in section 3.2 of the main report. In the area of health, poor maternal and child
health and nutrition leads to increased mortality and morbidity. In turn, this may lead to
loss of economic output and increased expenditure on health, thus perpetuating the
intergenerational cycle of poverty. In the same way, low levels of education deprive
individuals of the skills they need to compete in national and international labor markets,
leading to a lifetime of low skill, poorly paying, often labor-intensive jobs, which can
accelerate physical decline. They also represent lost opportunities to gain access to better
paying jobs. International evidence shows that increased utilization of the services targeted
by this project improves socio-economic conditions.29 Thus, Generasi aimed to break the
intergenerational cycle of poverty and to improve socio-economic conditions through the
means described in the following paragraphs.
Project facilitators met with the target communities to explain the importance of the
project’s 12 targeted health and education services. Following this socialization process,
the facilitators then helped communities to identify ways to increase utilization of those
services. Then they assisted them in the preparation of sub-project proposals to utilize the
block grants provided under Component 1 to overcome demand-side and/or small-scale
supply constraints, as determined by the community on the basis of their perceived needs.
Demand-side investments included transportation subsidies for poor households to health
and education facilities; community awareness-raising and training sessions related to
priority health and education services; supplementary feeding for poor households;
scholarships, books, and uniforms for poor students; etc. Supply-side investments included
transportation support for community health volunteers, midwives, and doctors; the


29
 See, for example, Alderman H., Horton S., Rivera J. (2008), Copenhagen Consensus Challenge Paper:
Hunger and Malnutrition; Alderman H. (2010). The economic cost to a poor start to life. Journal of
Developmental Origins of Health and Disease, 1(1), pp. 19-25.

                                                      26
purchase of equipment for local health facilities and schools; the hiring of contract teachers;
the rehabilitation and expansion of local health and education facilities; etc.
The inputs financed through Component 1, as described in Table 2 below, led to an increase
in the rate of utilization of most target health and education services. MIS data in Table 3
shows the number of beneficiaries benefiting from the increased rate of utilization of
services (as also shown in Section 3.2), while Table 4 shows certain supply-side outputs.
Given the community driven nature of the Project, it was not possible to establish target
outputs beforehand, so only actuals are shown. Component 1 financed the provision of
block grants during the period from 2010 to 2013. In 2014, block grants were financed
fully from the stand-alone Project (TF014769). By contrast, Components 2, 3, and 4 of the
Project financed activities in the period from 2010 to 2014.
IOI Achievements According to MIS Data
Data from the MIS is used to demonstrate Generasi’s contribution to improved socio-
economic conditions by measuring: (a) the percentage of villages that achieved all health
and education targets annually (Table 8); and (b) the Project’s contribution to several Bank
Core Sector Indicators (Tables 3-6).
Component 1: Spending Categories for Sub-Districts Grants (US$ 102 million;
US$ 64.1 million from the Grant)
Table 2: Component 1 Investments by Sector and Sub-project Category, Cumulative 2010-2013

  Sector                    Sub-project Category                            Total (US$ )    % of Total
 Health        Infrastructure (build and rehabilitation)                        4,783,586          4.7
               Equipment for health facilities                                  4,945,335          4.9
               Medicines                                                          484,794          0.5
               Financial assistance and transportation for
               pregnant, children to use services                               6,066,518          6.0
               House rental for assisted deliveries                               111,312          0.1
               Transportation for service providers (midwife,
               doctor, community health volunteers)                             3,977,706          3.9
               Financial incentives for health workers                          5,123,141          5.0
               Counseling and training                                          6,660,449          6.5
               Supplementary feeding (malnutrition, school
               feeding)                                                        29,996,985         29.5
 Education     Infrastructure (build and rehabilitation)                        2,660,361          2.6
               Equipment for education facilities                               5,459,880          5.4
               Financial assistance to poor students (uniforms,
               books)                                                          12,299,726         12.1
               Financial assistance for poor students
               (scholarships, transport)                                       10,454,549         10.3
               Financial incentives and transport for education
               workers                                                          6,349,790          6.2
               Community awareness raising on education                         1,463,315          1.4
               Extracurricular activities                                         519,763          0.5
               Other                                                              337,824          0.3
                                                            Total             101,695,034


Table 3: Health Demand-Side Outputs, Cumulative 2010-2013

                                          Indicator                                              Number

                                                      27
 Children between the age of 6 and 59 months receiving Vitamin A supplementation            1,692,047
 Pregnant women receiving iron and folic acid (IFA) supplements (number)                    1,889,546
 Children under age five treated for moderate or severe acute malnutrition (number)           326,066
 Pregnant/lactating women, adolescent girls and/or children under age five- reached by      1,886,742
 basic nutrition services
 Births (deliveries) attended by skilled health personnel (number)                           327,066
 Children immunized - under 5 years against Polio                                            693,250


Table 4: Health Supply-Side Outputs, Cumulative 2010-2013

                                        Indicator                                            Number
 Health volunteers receiving training                                                        155,457
 Health volunteers receiving operational support                                             155,457
 New health facilities constructed (community health costs, village health posts)                633
 Health facilities rehabilitated                                                                 143
 Health facilities equipped with improved sanitation facilities                                  107


Table 5: Education Demand-Side Outputs, Cumulative 2010-2013

                                         Indicator                                           Number
 Students receiving financial support (scholarships, uniforms, transportation subsidies)     727,803
 Students receiving nutrition support (school feeding programs)                              123,679
 Students receiving textbooks                                                                177,816


Table 6: Education Supply-Side Outputs, Cumulative 2010-2013
                                         Indicator                                          Number
 Additional classrooms built or rehabilitated at the primary level resulting from project      269
 interventions
 Schools equipped with improved sanitation facilities                                            251
 Contract teachers and teaching assistants receiving operational support                        6205
Tables 3-6 underestimate the total number of health and education outputs, as on average,
data from only 75 percent of the total number of target villages was uploaded to the web-
based MIS annually.
As the body of this report makes clear, over time the proportion of project funds invested
in education relative to health declined, with an increased preference for communities to
make investments in the health sector (see Figure 1).




                                                      28
Figure 1: Changing Spending Pattern Prioritizing Health




Table 7 below shows the results of the PMS in 2013 and 2014 compared to baseline data
from different sources for the Project, which enables a monitoring of the Project's
achievements against previous measured indicators. Interestingly, in terms of a number of
these indicators, lower levels of achievement were recorded in 2014 than in 2013. It is
hoped that the planned IE will determine the reasons for this.
IOI Achievements According to 2013 and 2014 Performance Monitoring Survey
Findings
PMS data for 2013 and 2014 showed that on average, Generasi increased the rate of
utilization of nine of 12 targeted health and education services over baseline values (Table
7). The rate of utilization of services including percentage of pregnant women receiving
four prenatal care visits, percentage of pregnant women receiving 90 iron tablets,
percentage of infants for which weight increases each month saw relatively large increases.
On the other hand, the percentage of children under-five receiving vitamin A twice a year
and minimum attendance rate of 85% for all primary school-aged children declined.
Qualitative research is currently being conducted to identify the factors influencing
variation in performance across the targeted services, but ISM findings suggest that
availability of services, such as Vitamin A tablets, is a constraint on community
performance. In addition, given high levels of funding from other sources for primary
education30, communities tended to used Generasi resources on health services.




30 Twenty percent of Indonesia’s state budget by law must be spent on education, through programs such as School

Operations Grants (BOS—Bantuan Operasionel Sekolah) and Scholarships for Poor Children (BSM—Bantuan Siswa
Miskin).

                                                          29
Table 7: 2013 and 2014 PMS Results
        Targeted Health Services                Baseline          PMS 2013        2013    PMS       2014       %
                                                                                 Target   2014     Target   change
                                                                                  from              from     from
                                                                                P132585           P132585   baseline
                                                                                                            to 2014
 Percentage of pregnant women                    61.40 (2010            70.03       >70   91.22       >75     +29.82
 receiving four prenatal care visits          RISKESDAS)
 Percentage of pregnant women                    18.00 (2010            39.40       N/A   32.43       N/A    +14.43
 receiving 90 iron tablets                    RISKESDAS)
 Percentage of deliveries assisted               82.20 (2010            89.17        75   88.89        80      +6.69
 by a trained professional                    RISKESDAS)
 Percentage of women receiving                   46.80 (2010            50.83       N/A   47.50       N/A       +0.7
 two postnatal care visits                    RISKESDAS)
 Percentage of children under one             75.00 (2010 IE            77.15       N/A   83.82       N/A     +8.82
 year receiving complete                     Endline Survey)
 childhood immunizations
 Percentage of infants for which                           N/A          64.77       N/A   75.36       N/A    +10.58
 weight increases each month31
 Percentage of children attending                 75.00 (2012           74.62        75   73.49        80      -1.51
 monthly weight checks for under                  SUSENAS)
 threes and biannually for under-
 fives
 Percentage of children under-five                71.5 (2007            56.19       N/A   52.12       N/A     -19.38
 receiving vitamin A twice a year              RISKESDAS)
   Targeted Education Services
 Primary school enrollment of all             98.50 (2010 IE            99.55       N/A   98.67       N/A     +0.17
 children 6 to 12 years old                  Endline Survey)
 Minimum attendance rate of 85%               96.00 (2010 IE            91.18       N/A   89.64       N/A      -6.36
 for all primary school-aged                 Endline Survey)
 children
 Junior secondary school                      87.40 (2010 IE            95.83        65   93.75        70      +6.35
 enrollment of all 13 to 15 years            Endline Survey)
 old
 Minimum attendance rate of 85%               86.00 (2010 IE            93.36       N/A   93.20       N/A       +7.2
 for all junior secondary school-            Endline Survey)
 aged children
Table 8 shows that in the period from 2010 to 2013, the percentage of villages achieving each
of the specific targets increased by the rate of one percent to 26 percent, depending upon the
indicator. The proportion of villages that achieved the individual indicators varied from
between 72 percent to 92 percent. Throughout this period, the target related to immunization
coverage has been the most difficult for villages to achieve. While the average coverage
increased from 63 percent to 72 percent, this was still below the targeted level of 80 percent.
The failure to achieve this target was partly due to the fact that supplying vaccines is the
responsibility of district health offices, which was beyond the control of the Project. The
percentage of Generasi villages achieving all 12 indicator targets increased from 23 percent in
2010 to 39.7 percent in 2011; and to 48.5 percent in 2013.




31   Measured as weight increases each month over three consecutive months.

                                                           30
Table 8: Percentage of Project Villages Achieving Target for Improved Service
Utilization
              Targeted Health Services                  2010          2013       % Change
 Percentage of pregnant women receiving four              73            84            +11
 prenatal care visits
 Percentage of pregnant women receiving 90 iron           91            92               +1
 tablets
 Percentage of deliveries assisted by a trained           54            80              +26
 professional
 Percentage of women receiving two postnatal care         76            85               +9
 visits
 Percentage of children under one year receiving          63            72               +9
 complete childhood immunizations
 Percentage of infants for which weight increases         75            81               +6
 each month
 Percentage of children attending monthly weight          77            86               +9
 checks for under threes and biannually for under-
 fives
 Percentage of children under-five receiving vitamin      80            86               +6
 A twice a year
            Targeted Education Services
 Primary school enrollment of all children 6 to 12        77            88              +11
 years old
 Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all primary           84            90               +6
 school-aged children
 Junior secondary school enrollment of all 13 to 15       80            89               +9
 years old
 Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all junior            90            91               +1
 secondary school-aged children
Component 2: Technical Assistance (US$ 8.5 million; US$ 6.9 million from the
Grant)
This component financed salaries and operational costs for the National and Provincial
Specialists whose contacts were managed by an Administrative Services Firm (ASF)
contracted by the implementing agency. At the National level, these specialists included
Complaints Handling, Financial Management, MIS, Health, Education and Training
Specialists. In addition, in each province, Project Management and MIS Specialists were
deployed. Together, the National and Provincial Specialists were responsible for Project
planning; producing technical documents such as the Operations Manual, training modules,
internal audit manual, and Safeguards guidelines; and capacity building and oversight of
District and Sub-District Facilitators. The ASF was responsible for delivering operational and
administrative support to the National and Provincial Specialists, and for organizing the
national and regional workshops.
This component also financed the operational costs and salaries of District and Sub-District
Facilitators and Computer Operators. These facilitators provided direct TA to Project
communities, local governments, and local service providers in support of achieving the 12
health and education services.




                                                   31
Table 9: Number of Project Facilitators and Specialists Financed

   Year             Sub-district             District              Provincial     National     Total (US$ )
                     facilitators         facilitators             Specialists   Specialists
 2010                         212                   27                     12              4      By Loan
                                                                                                 PNPM III
 2011                        290                   27                      12            4       1,794,667
 2012                        369                   83                      16            4       1,422,949
 2013                        369                   83                      16           27       2,928,433
 2014                        499                  127                      22           47         307,666
                                                                                      Total      6,453,715
Component 3: Capacity Building (US$ 4.5 million; from US$ 1.99 million from the
Grant)
This component financed training for District and Sub-District Facilitators and District
Computer Operators; for the production of communication and the socialization materials for
use by Sub-District facilitators when working with Project communities; and for the printing
and distribution of the Operations Manual (PTO). These activities were delivered by the Event
Organizers (EO) contracted by the implementing agency.
  Year                              Activity Description                         Personnel        Amount
                                                                                  Trained          (US$ )
 2012       EO for Training Services (Pre-Service Training for District                           233,031
            and Sub-District Facilitators; Refresher Training for District
            Facilitators and Computer Operators)
 2013       Printing and Distribution (PTO, Posters and Leaflets)                     N/A          248,385
 2013       EO for Training Services (ToT; Refresher Training for                                  782,031
            District and Financial Facilitators, Computer Operator and
            Sub-District Facilitators; Training on Mitigation of
            Corruption for District and Financial District Facilitators,
            National Specialists and National Project Management
            Specialists (Secretariat)
 2014       EO for training for ToT, Pre-Service for Facilitators and                              410,820
            Computer Operator, workshop for Training Module
            Development
                                                                        Total                    1,674,268
Component 4: Project Management Support (US$ 0.7 million; US$ 0.3 million from
the Grant)
This component financed the provision of salaries to certain Secretariat and Secretariat support
staff and of travel and operating costs. The Secretariat is responsible for budgeting,
administration, invoicing, procurement and disbursement. It consists of one Coordinator, six
Specialists (Planning and Program Development; Budgeting; Human Resource Development
(HRD); Procurement; Invoice and Disbursement Specialist; Policy Analyst and Reporting
Management) and is assisted by six Junior Specialists. Fifteen support staff are also deployed
to conduct technical and administration tasks. A small fraction of overall Secretariat costs are
financed by the Project.
This component, which was fully disbursed by the end of 2014, enabled PMD to realign the
PNPM Generasi Secretariat to reduce overlap with the national TA structure (National
Specialists). The realignment of the Secretariat also helped to improve the overall quality of
project management, facilitating the provision of support for multi-stakeholder workshops at
the national level and improved coordination with the National Audit Agency in the area of the

                                                         32
implementation of Generasi-related external audits. The total value of funds from TF097410
used to finance this category stands at US$ 348,262.




                                           33
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis
A detailed explanation of the methodology that was used to calculate the cost effectiveness of
Generasi compared to PKH and similar global programs is laid out in Olken et al. 2014
(http://economics.mit.edu/files/9380). To calculate the cost effectiveness of the program,
Olken, Onishi and Wong (2014) calculated the total number of “points” the program created,
using the weighting scheme agreed upon in advance and shown in Table 1 (Olken at al. p. 15)
and the point estimates for the impact of the program from Table 3 (Olken et al. p. 22-25). They
then divide the total cost of the program by the total number of points created to generate a
“cost per point”, which can then be interpreted using the point values in Table 1 (Olken et al.
p. 15).
To summarize, the points were created using the following formula. For each of the 12
Generasi indicators, the program established a constant predicted minimum attainment level in
a particular village to be equal to 70 percent of the average achievement level for villages with
similar levels of access to health and education providers and numbers of beneficiaries,
calculated from the 2004 SUSENAS household survey and 2003 PODES census of
villages. They then calculated how many bonus points a particular village and beneficiaries in
the village earned.
To calculate the costs of the program, the authors divide the expenditures into transfers to
households and real expenditures (i.e. real allocation of resources). They count school supplies,
school fee subsidies, health care subsidies, and supplementary food as transfers, and all other
expenditures as real expenditures. About 75% of the block grant is spent on transfers by these
definitions.




                                               34
Annex 4: Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Jan Weetjens              Lead Social Development                GSURR Sector Manager
                          Specialist
                          Senior Social Development
John Victor Bottini                                              GSURR Task Team Leader
                          Specialist
Susan Wong                Lead Social Development Specialist     GSURR Operations
Yogana Prasta             Operations Adviser                     EACIF FM & Disbursement
Unggul Suprayitno         Senior Financial Management            EAPFM Financial Management
                          Specialist
Bisma Husen               Senior Procurement Specialist          EAPPR   Procurement
Melinda Good              Senior Counsel                         LEGES   Legal
Indira Dharmapatni        Senior Operations Officer              EASIS   Social Safeguard
Juliana Wilson            Consultant                             EASIS   Communication
Sadwanto Purnomo          Social Development Specialist          GSURR   Operations
Gerda M. Gulo             Operations Analyst                     GSURR   Operations

Supervision/ICR
                                                                         Task Team Leader
                           Senior Social Development                     from November 2010
Robert Wrobel                                                    GSURR
                           Specialist                                    to project closing in
                                                                         December 2014
Sadwanto Purnomo           Social Development Specialist         GSURR   Operations
Gerda Gulo                 Operations Analyst                    GSURR   Operations
Ali Winoto Subandoro       Health Specialist                     GHNDR   Operations (Health)
Yasmeen Nasser Al Tabbaa   Social Development Specialist         EASER   Operations
                           Senior Financial Management
Unggul Suprayitno                                                GGODR Financial Management
                           Specialist
Alexander B. Setiadji      Social Development Specialist         GSURR Governance
                                                                       Financial Management
Festina Lavida             Operations Officer                    GSURR
                                                                       (Audit)
                                                                       Budget and
Hanggar Irawan             Financial Management Specialist       GSURR
                                                                       Disbursement
                                                                       Monitoring and
Audrey Sacks               Social Development Specialist         GSURR
                                                                       Evaluation
                                                                       Monitoring and
Yulia Herawati             Social Development Specialist         GSURR
                                                                       Evaluation
                                                                       Monitoring and
Junko Onishi               Senior Social Protection Specialist   GSPDR
                                                                       Evaluation
Juan Martinez              Senior Social Scientist               GSURR Social Safeguards
Dennie Stenly Mamonto      Consultant                            GSURR Safeguards
Juliana Wilson             Consultant                            EASID Communication
Maureen Tuahatu Rustandi   Consultant                            GSURR Communication

                                            35
Yohanes Susilo               Consultant                          GSURR    Training Specialist
Zejd Muhamad                 Consultant                          EASID    MIS Specialist
Budi Wijoyo                  Temporary                           GSURR    MIS Assistant
Paul Boon                    Consultant                          GSURR    ICR Team Leader



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)*
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                           20.40                        93.81
FY12                                           111.58                      346.66
FY13                                           130.50                      544.53
FY14                                           156.96                      383.67
FY15                                           291.44                      102.81
                            Total:              522.25                    1,660.11
Supervision/ICR
FY11                                               0.00                      11.65
FY12                                               0.00                     101.33
FY13                                               0.00                     166.68
FY14                                               0.00                      80.63
FY15                                               0.00                      46.99
                            Total:                 0.00                     407.29
*Staff time and cost are funded through separate TF and different P number. PNPM Generasi
BETF is TF092194 under P111966.




                                              36
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      37
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
On March 20, 2015, the implementing agency, PMD, invited key stakeholders to participate in
a workshop in Jakarta to discuss the initial findings of the ICR process. Attending the workshop
were representatives of the MoF, MoEC, MoH, BAPPENAS and MoHA (PMD); WB/PSF
Generasi staff and consultants; PMD Secretariat staff; and NMC consultants.
The majority of participants agreed that Generasi has had a substantial direct impact on
beneficiaries, providing learning for demand-supply interactions at the local level and playing
a significant role in the development of a strategy to improve frontline service delivery in the
national level strategy currently being designed by BAPPENAS.
The participants agreed that there was a need to prepare for the phase-out of Generasi in 2017
to ensure that the GoI and Local Governments (LGs) have both the necessary strategies and
the budgetary space to accommodate the continuation of a number of activities developed
under the project and also to help LGs prepare the villages and communities to take over and
fund a number of these activities. Strengthening the role and capacity of the LGs to take over
and implement a number of Generasi activities adapted to local circumstances was regarded as
the single most important activity for ensuring that impacts on both the demand and supply-
side are sustained.
Observations regarding the Bank’s initial findings:
      The implementation of Generasi has demonstrated that an incentivized community
       empowerment approach with a clear focus and with clearly defined indicators
       determine achievement of sectoral targets can be effective. Although shortcomings in
       implementation are recognized, the project demonstrated that the provision of financial
       resources and good facilitation is a recipe for success.
      Generasi was successful in facilitating the achievement of 10 out of the original 12
       targets. In addition, it was sufficiently flexible to enable the adaption of the indicators
       in line with lessons learnt from implementation and evolving government priorities.
       For example, indicators related to education changed to place an emphasis on those
       with the lowest level of access to education, rather than continuing to focus on
       attendance rates that had already been achieved. The fact that close to 50 percent of all
       the villages involved achieved all 12 targets provides additional evidence of the success
       of collective action in both education and health sectors.
      Generasi provides input to assist in the drafting of GoI’s frontline service delivery
       agenda, with this agenda mandating the provision of a minimum level of basic services
       for the poor by 2019. In this regard, Generasi can act as a vehicle for implementation
       that links demand and supply-side interventions. There is emerging evidence that
       sectors linking their activities to Generasi achieve a higher level of coordination in
       terms of specific targets. However, in the long run, such an approach requires a strong
       multi-sectoral approach to ensure good coordination and effective collaboration.
      The link between Generasi and LG sectoral programs needs improvement, given that
       focuses on the provision of basic services that are the responsibility of LGs. The
       institutionalization of such efforts should be prioritized with a focus on preparing
       systems at both the local government and village level. This will become particularly
       important in the context of the increased financial resources villages will receive with
       the full implementation of the Village Law.


                                              38
      Facilitators play a vital role in determining the success of Generasi, with both the
       quality and quantity of the project facilitators being decisive for success. LGs can learn
       from Generasi's systems for the deployment, management, and recruitment of
       facilitators in their endeavors to replicate Generasi activities in the context of the phase-
       out of the project by the end of 2017.
Observations regarding lessons learned:
      LGs and local institutions will determine the extent to which the impact and
       implementation of Generasi initiated activities are sustained in the long term. Hence,
       Generasi needs to work increasingly closely with these institutions to build their
       capacities and to strengthen their performance.
      With the Generasi project scheduled to run for almost three more years and with the
       current level of interaction between sectoral ministries and BAPPENAS, there is space
       to work closely with BAPPENAS and LGs to define a clear phase-out strategy and to
       ensure uptake and replication by LGs through national policy development through
       integration with the GoI's agenda for frontline service delivery for the poor.
      The GoI decision to shift the responsibility for the implementation of Generasi agency
       from MoHA to MoV effects implementation in the field. There is a need to encourage
       the two institutions to engage in discussions related to future implementation to ensure
       that these initiatives benefit from MoHA's experience while at the same time fulfilling
       MoV's mandate.
      Improvements must be made to systems for monitoring and evaluation to ensure the
       availability of evidence to adjust implementation. The recurring problems with the
       timeliness and reliability of MIS data has influenced PMD’s capability to monitor and
       redress problems in a timely manner. Improved data collection and to facilitate
       monitoring and evaluation could be achieved by linking data collection and submission
       to the facilitator remuneration merit system or through other means.
      Facilitators and village cadres can play an important role in linking demand and supply.
       There improved understanding of sectoral issues facilitates community mobilization
       and action. Adding a measurement for community empowerment processes and
       collective action and performance might help indicate the influence of support to build
       social capital capacity on the achievement of sectoral targets.
      Some thought should be given the means for generating learning from the
       implementation of the Generasi approach and for the adaption of successful initiatives
       to on-going GoI efforts, such as MP3KI (the Master Plan for Accelerating and
       Expanding Poverty Reduction in Indonesia) and P2B (the Livelihood program).




                                               39
Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR32
Lessons Learned: (+) include -
 PNPM MPd Generasi supported participatory village planning and uptake of education and
  health in the mid-term village development plans;
 PNPM MPd Generasi was able to map the poor households;
 PNPM MPd Generasi design allowed members of communities to work together to develop
  solutions at the community level to address issues that were previously seen as household
  or private domain issues. The increased dynamics in the community could explain a spill-
  over effect, as these villages seemed to attract a greater number of volunteers involved in
  the health sector and an increased number of active school committee members. They also
  facilitated the greater involvement of women. This is an important lesson for the future,
  particularly in the area of the allocation of village level funds for education and health
  purposes;
 Providing Block Grants to communities to be used for self-determined activities to stimulate
  better services in the health and education sector is an effective means of addressing both
  demand- and supply-side issues. By allocating a major portion of the block grants to
  performance, a positive impact was achieved in both sectors, especially in the area of
  malnutrition. Using block grants as an incentive to stimulate better performance has been
  shown to have a statistically significant impact;
 The Musyawarah Desa Serah Terima (MDST) improves block grant management and
  transparency;
 Targets achieved by PNPM MPd Generasi include an increase in the proportion of
  pregnancies assisted by profession personnel; a decrease in the rate of maternal mortality;
  and a decrease in the rate of infant mortality. Although still fluctuative, the proportion of
  students dropping out of education has decreased and participation rates have increased
  (although not yet to a statistically significant level);
 The involvement of national, provincial and district government is rated as Satisfactory.
  However, greater efforts are needed to strengthen the village apparatus and community
  groups, especially in relation to better service delivery;
 The World Bank role is very supportive of measures to improve program management;
 The solving of cases in PNPM MPd Generasi through litigation and non-litigation measures
  helps to ensure that people understand the paradigm of community responsibility and be
  need to solve the problems by leverage in local customs and through other means.




32 This Annex is the ICR Author’s translation of the Lessons Learned and the Recommendations based on the

“PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - Implementation of PNPM MPd Generasi - Grant Number TF-097410. 2010 –
2014” compiled by DG PMD in MoHA.




                                                   40
 Communities still hope for further assistance under PNPM MPd Generasi. Thus, it is
  important to prepare a clear Exit Strategy that can ensure sustainability in terms of human
  resources, organizational structure and systems and regulations;
 There is a need to improve the quality of data and to facilitate a more in-depth discussion
  regarding education and health amongst the technical ministries;
 Facilitator skills and knowledge related to cross-program work need to be strengthened;
 Empowerment is still more visible at the individual level than the community level. Hence,
  there is a need to improve the skills of communities to implement monitoring and
  evaluation;
 Local governments need to be involved in determining PNPM MPd Generasi locations;
 PNPM MPd Generasi indicators relate to scope of reach. There is a need to coordinate health
  service delivery at the village level, although these indicators currently focus on the sub-
  district level;
 Continuous changes to the composition of government staff at the district and provincial
  levels hamper the implementation of programs;
 To address malnutrition, the recurring issue is the need for resources to support family
  members accompanying babies or children. The lack of such resources means that
  caregivers often return to their places of residence early, before the issue has been fully
  addressed;
 The allocation of health staff and teachers is still not even, with many villages being severely
  under resourced;
 Local customs often mean that after completing primary school, children fail to make the
  transition to junior secondary school because they are required to provide labor to assist
  their families;
 Measures need to be taken to build the capacities of village apparatus and community
  institutions;
 Preventive and promotive activities have to be increased to ensure impact;
 The main problem in achieving Indicator 5 (complete immunization) is the lack of vaccine
  storage facilities and the fact that vitally necessary supporting infrastructure, including
  electricity, is often available only intermittently. In the case of indicator 6 (babies and
  infants weighed every month and showing weight increases), the main constraint is the
  limited community understanding of what constitutes nutritious food;
 PNPM MPd Generasi still only possesses limited promotional materials. The development
  of an improved communication strategy will increase the reach of the program;
 There is a need to adapt the Safeguards implementation guidelines for PNPM MPd Generasi
  and for procurement, with emerging Post Review needs to be analyzed and addressed.
Recommendations:
1.   PNPM MPd Generasi has already made a positive impact in terms of building the capacity
     of the community, program implementers and government staff related to participatory
     planning and implementation of programs to ensure that these programs are transparent

                                               41
     and accountable. Nevertheless, there is a need to reconstruct the planning stage and to
     ensure that it is integrated with the regular planning system and that it supports the
     implementation of the Village Law;
2.   The commitment of the local government to participatory planning is not yet maximal.
     Thus, there is a need to approach local parliaments to raise their awareness of activities
     and activities to encourage the passage of legislation that provides a supportive
     environment for the implementation of PNPM MPd Generasi and/or associated activities.
     PNPM MPd Generasi offers an approach which local parliaments can adopt to prepare
     legislation that supports a similar strategy, including the follow-up management of PNPM
     MPd Generasi assets and activities and measures to ensure that midwives are stationed
     and operate at the village level with the appropriate support resources;
3.   The capacity of facilitators is an extremely important factor in the implementation of
     innovative approaches to identifying the problems, assets and needs and to ensure effective
     and efficient use of the block grants. The planning methodology utilized to support the
     implementation of the new Village Law must be understood by all program actors to
     ensure an integrated approach to development;
4.   As there has not yet been an official hand-over of the management of PNPM MPd
     Generasi activities, there is need to develop technical operational guidelines for program
     implementation;
5.   ECED activities should be implemented in all PNPM MPd Generasi locations, given the
     fundamental importance of these to a child’s development (0 – 6 Tahun). This could be
     achieved through the optimization of roles in Posyandu and through a low-cost
     implementation approach, given that these activities do not contribute to the achievement
     of the program's indicators;
6.   Priority in use of PNPM MPd Generasi BG in the future includes:
      Development of village health posts and clinic;
      The provision of support and mentoring for the Posyandu; and
      The provision of support for the mentoring and management of ECED.
7.   The involvement of the village apparatus (village head and other leaders and village
     institutions / BPD) in the implementation of PNPM MPd Generasi is necessary to ensure
     the sustainability of impacts on education and health so they become an integral part of
     the agenda included in the village medium term development plan (RPJMDes) and the
     annual implementation plan (RKPDes), including on matters related to infrastructure,
     health workers, service quality and improved access by the community;
8.   Complaints handling in PNPM MPd Generasi has already resulted in the resolution of a
     number of cases and has supported the audit processes significantly. This was achieved
     through the regular coordination between the central and local government, supported by
     BPKP (central and provincial representatives) and other program implementers. There is
     a need to compile and update cases and to determine their status;
9.   To the greatest extent possible, it is necessary to ensure that the national budget (DIPA)
     for PNPM MPd Generasi is not delayed, as delays of this sort have a serious negative
     impact on the quality of performance;



                                              42
10. The regular mapping of consultants and facilitators (monthly) needs to pro-actively
    anticipate the number of facilitators to be recruited to avoid shortages in certain locations;
11. There is a need to mobilize national and provincial Financial Mangement Spesialists
    (FMS) to optimize support for administration and financial management; and
12. Measures should be implemented to improve coordination between the national actors
    involved in PNPM MPd Generasi to ensure that decision-making and program policy
    decision can be taken without delay to program implementation.




                                               43
Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Comments from Elena Rose, First Secretary, Governance and Social Development,
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) on the May 8th Draft ICR report.
      DFAT supports the report’s findings. It’s a comprehensive and balanced assessment of
       a program that is highly relevant to the Indonesian context and has achieved good
       outcomes.
      The report could present clearer recommendations upfront to highlight challenges and
       lessons learned for next phase of programming and other related programs, given how
       rich Generasi is in these lessons. A few recommendations drawing on points in the text
       might include:
       o Noting the report’s point on the importance of collaborating with supply-side
         stakeholders (MOH, MOEC) and the lack of this collaboration being one of the
         challenges the program faced, one recommendation could address how Generasi
         could improve collaboration with other stakeholders and in what area of the
         program it could/should pursue collaboration (e.g. better networking, between
         Generasi facilitators and school etc).
       o The report notes that Generasi benefited from being ‘co-located’ in areas where
         other investments were operating because of the strengthened enabling
         environment (e.g. ACCESS in NTB and AIPMNH in NTT), a recommendation on
         how to pursue this in future could be useful, particularly given the delays faced
         with central government in seeking formal agreement for programs to collaborate.
       o Including recommendations around facilitating a smooth transition of the program
         to MoV, including as relates to improving the quality of Generasi going forward
         (building on some of the points under (b) on p 24), could be useful.
      Challenges to sustainability could be more emphasised, giving greater foothold to the
       substantial work that needs to follow from 2015-17 to institutionalise aspects of
       Generasi into Village Law implementation and potentially through line ministries.
       Supporting the formulation of a clear GOI vision for this and preparing for a smoother
       transition than has occurred for PNPM-Rural is critical to avoid both: losing the ground
       made up by Generasi; and the same issue of communities not allocating sufficient
       resources to health and education coming up again under the VL.
      The report does not fully address some particular challenges that confronted Generasi
       such as:
       o Excessive accumulation of money in the multiyear account, which was apparently
         one of the main causes of fraud/misuse of funds and compromised the quality of
         the program as it increased pressure to spend;
       o How the workload of PNPM facilitators affecting the quality of their work – PSF
         did a study in late 2013 on facilitators’ workload, which showed most of their time
         was spent on administrative work, reducing their scope to conduct better quality
         facilitation; and
       o The variable quality of facilitators, which was not uniform across program
         locations.


                                             44
   The definition of “improved local governance conditions” seemed somewhat narrow
    and the rating of substantial (pp 20-21) perhaps a bit too generous without further
    evidence. For instance, governance is predominantly focused on demand-side aspects
    and participation in processes is not necessarily a strong indicator of a sustained
    improvement in governance.
   While Generasi achieved much, the assessment that it substantially improved socio-
    economic conditions of the community may require further evidence than is presented
    in the report. The argument that it averagely increased the rate of utilisation of nine of
    12 targeted health and education indicators (i.e. it met output indicators) doesn’t – from
    what is outlined in the report – show a clear link to how the program achieved an
    outcome-level goal like improving socio-economic conditions.




                                           45
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents
Bhutta, Zulfiqar A., et al. “Evidence-based Interventions for Improvement of Maternal and
Child Nutrition: What Can Be Done and at What Cost?” The Lancet 382.9890, (2013): 452-
477.
Glewwe, Paul, and Elizabeth M. King. “The Impact of Early Childhood Nutritional Status on
Cognitive Development: Does the Timing of Malnutrition Matter?” World Bank Economic
Review 15.1, (2001): 81-113.
Grantham-McGregor, Sally M., et al. “Nutritional Supplementation, Psychosocial Stimulation,
and Mental Development of Stunted Children: The Jamaican Study,” The Lancet 338.8758,
(1991): 1-5.
Grantham-McGregor, Sally M., et al. “Effects of Early Childhood Supplementation With and
Without Stimulation on Later Development in Stunted Jamaican Children,” The American
Journal of Clinical Nutrition 66.2, (1997): 247-253.
Grayman, J. (2014), Opportunities and Approaches for Better Nutrition Outcomes through
PNPM Generasi - A Qualitative Study, PNPM Support Facility (PSF) and Poverty Reduction
Support Facility (PRSF).
Hoddinott, John, et al. “Effect of a Nutrition Intervention during Early Childhood on Economic
Productivity in Guatemalan Adults,” The Lancet 371.9610, (2008): 411-416.
MIS Data Analysis to Support the Feasibility Study of PNPM Generasi Long Term Evaluation,
Internal Project Report, (2014).
Johnston, Francis E., et al. “Interaction of Nutritional and Socioeconomic Status as
Determinants of Cognitive Development in Disadvantaged Urban Guatemalan Children,”
American Journal of Physical Anthropology 73.4, (1987): 501-506.
McLaughlin, K. Indonesian Village Health Institutions, A Diagnostic. Unpublished
manuscript, (undated).
Olken, B.A., Onishi, J. and Wong, S. (2013), “Should Aid Reward Performance? Evidence
from a field experiment on health and education in Indonesia”.
PNPM Support Facility (2013). Performance Monitoring Survey for PNPM Generasi.
PNPM Support Facility (2014). Summary of Findings from the Piloting of Integrating Early
Childhood Education and Development Indicator into PNPM Generasi Program, Internal
Project Report.
Pollitt, Ernesto, William Mueller, and Rudolph L. Leibel. “The Relation of Growth to
Cognition in a Well-Nourished Preschool Population,” Child Development, (1982): 1157-1163.
Qureshy, Lubina F., et al. “Positive Returns: Cost-Benefit Analysis of a Stunting Intervention
in Indonesia.” Journal of Development Effectiveness 5.4, (2013): 447-465.
UNICEF (2011). Indonesia Country Study on Out of School Children.
Wai-Poi, Matthew Grant, “Chapter 2: Large-scale Child Health and Nutrition Interventions:
Indonesia’s Posyandu,” Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia University, (2011).
World Bank (2008). Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia FY2009-2012.



                                             46
World Bank (2010). Indonesia’s PNPM Generasi Program. Interim Impact Evaluation Report,
PNPM Support Facility (PSF)
World Bank (2010). Project Paper on a Proposed Grant Amendment in the Amount of USD
10.2 Million to the Republic of Indonesia for Additional Financing for the Third National
Program for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas, Report No: 56112-ID.
World Bank (2011). Indonesia’s PNPM Generasi Program. Final Impact Evaluation Report,
PNPM Support Facility (PSF).
World Bank (2011). Project Paper on a Proposed Grant Amendment in an Amount of USD
28.123 million to the Republic of Indonesia for Additional Financing for PNPM Generasi
Scale-Up,).
World Bank (2012). Country Partnership Strategy for Indonesia FY2013-2015.
World Bank (2012). Project Paper on a proposed Grant Amendment in an Amount of USD 35
Million to the Republic of Indonesia for Additional Financing for PNPM Generasi Scale-Up –
Updated for Third Installment of Additional Financing. April 27, 2012.
World Bank and Monash University (2013). A Cost Benefit Analysis of a Community Based
Nutrition Project in Indonesia: Calculating an Economic Rate of Return.
World Bank (2013). Implementation Completion and Results Report – Third National Program
for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas.
World Bank (2013). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed PNPM Support Facility Grant
in the amount of USUS$ 31.70 million to the Republic of Indonesia for the National Program
for Community Empowerment in Rural Areas – Healthy and Bright Generation (PNPM
Generasi), Report No: 497, (April 9, 2013).
World Bank (2013). Restructuring Paper of ID-TF Additional Financing of PNPM Rural III
for Generasi (Comm CCT) Scaling-up Program (P122032) August 2, 2010 to the Republic of
Indonesia, World Bank Report No: RES12300, (November 8, 2013).
World Bank (2014). Project Paper on a Proposed Additional PNPM Support Facility Grant
in the Amount of US151.7 million to the Republic of Indonesia for the National Program for
the Community Empowerment in Rural Areas – Healthy and Bright Generation (PNPM
Generasi), Report No: 829, (June 23, 2014).




                                           47
           ...       '"'           '"'                             INDO NESIA
                                                                    o       CffiE$ JIN!) IO'WtlS

...                                                                *
                                                                    •       l'RO'o'IN<t <APITAlS
                                                                             t"-'>.t~ ...l CAl'ffAl
                                                                 -....__ _,, RNei::S
                                                                 -- ~HROA(>S



                                                                 - - "'""""'
                                                                 - - l'll()VIN(f fi(XJN IW!lf$

•••                                                       ,.     - ·-       INTERNA1JONJ\l &OUNDo\BES


                                                                        •
                                                                         ,,.                          ,...
 """'"""
                                                             PACIFIC          OCEAN



•                                                                                                             •



    •
    0




                 INDIAN OCEAN                             •
                                                                            h(
                               '(
                                          .
                                      ;. ' Ii~
                                              I   • ••
                                                      •
                                                                        -                                    '" " ~

                           'f's·   l?S'
                                                  ~

                                                      AUS RALIA
                                                      ,,..               '"                           ..
                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                  w
                                                                                                                  w
                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                  ~
                                                                                                                  w
