 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14851

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 12/01/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P122032                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Id-tf Additional             Project Costs (US$M):                      73.32               73.32
                         Financing Of PNPM-
                         Rural III For Generasi
                         (c
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       10.2               73.32
      Sector Board:      Social Development           Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                            08/16/2010
                                                               Closing Date:           12/31/2012       12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Health (34%); Primary education (33%); Other social services (33%)
          Theme(s):        Child health (40%); Other social development (30%); Other human development (30%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              John R. Eriksson       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 According to the Grant Agreement (TF-97410, August 16 2010, Page 4, Schedule 1, Project description, first sentence) the objective of
villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved socio-economic and local governance conditions.” (Program Nasional Pemberda
or National Community Empowerment Program).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Project Background:
In 2007, the Government of Indonesia launched two large-scale pilots designed to address certain lags in health and education; (i) Cond
(CCT) to individual households (the Hopeful Family Project), and (ii) a community CCT and incentivized community block grant program
Generasi . The second pilot provided Additional Financing (AF) and built upon the community driven development platform of an existing
as Kecamatan Development Project/PNPM Rural (KDP/PNPM Rural). The two pilot projects began in six provinces and were designed
and education indicators.

This AF project grant was to help finance the costs of expanding the geographical coverage of a pilot implemented under PNPM-Rural, c
Sehat dan Cerdas , or “The National Program for Community Development – A Healthy and Smart Generation”. The pilot had been oper
164 sub-districts since 2007 and had been operating fully satisfactory, according to the Project Paper (p 1, para 2). This additional grant
to the PNPM Generasi program. The Project Paper states that expected outcomes would be improved education and health indicators i
junior secondary school enrolment and attendance and infant and maternal health care.

In 2010, the Government of Indonesia separated PNPM-Generasi from PNPM-Rural III and established a separate Directorate for the P
lack of capacity of the implementing agency to manage both programs following the nation-wide scale-up in 2010. In December 2012, the
delinked PNPM-Generasi from PNPM-Rural III to reflect the GoI implementing arrangements for the two projects.
Components:
The project had four components, which remained unchanged during implementation. However, with two more AFs, the total budget allo
for each component changed as follows (Table taken from ICR p 5):

   Components/                 AF (original)                AF1                           AF2                     Original Amount          Real
   US$
   1 Sub-District Grants       9,810,000                    25,283,000                    25,640,000              60,733,000               64,1
   2 TA                        79,000                       2,243,000                     7,640,000               9,962,000                6,904
   3 Training and              233,000                      517,000                       1,640,000               2,390,000                1,994
   Capacity Building
   4 Incremental Costs         78,000                       80,000                        80,000                  238,000                  302,
   and Goods
   Total                       10,200,000                   28,123,000                    35,000,000              73,323,000               73,3


The components were are follows:

Component 1: Sub-District Grants. This component provided resources for poor rural communities to finance an open menu of local hea
development activities that addressed small-scale supply or demand-side constraints to service utilization, depending on where the comm
to be greatest. An incentivized portion of the grant rewarded villages that performed well relative to other villages, with these villages rece
allocation in the following year of implementation. (I.e.: within a sub-district, in the project’s first year, funds were divided among villages i
of target beneficiaries in each village; i.e., the number of children of varying ages and the expected number of pregnant women. In the pr
subsequent years, 80% of the sub-district’s funds were divided among villages in proportion to the number to target beneficiaries. The rem
performance bonus pool to be divided among villages, structured as competition between villages within the same sub-district, based upo
performance on the 12 Generasi indicators.) This part of the component was intended to contribute to “improved socio-economic conditio

This component also provided operational funds (calculated as 4 % of the sub-district grant allocation) to support local-level development
capacity building, and mapping of early childhood education services. Activities funded through operational funds included:
(i)      village participatory providers to identify lags in access to specific services; to identify the neediest beneficiaries; and to determi
          would be most effective to facilitate the achievements of specific targets;
(ii)     information and planning meetings at the hamlet, village and sub-district levels, during which local service providers gained an u
          community health and education needs; and
(iii)    annual village accountability meetings (MDTS), through which the previous year’s funds were accounted for and performance b
This part of the component was intended to contribute to “improved governance conditions”.

Component 2: Technical Assistance (TA). This component provided TA to strengthen capacity of GoI entities responsible for implementa
provincial, and district levels. Specifically, funds provided under this component covered the salaries and operating costs of national and
specialists; the salaries and operating costs of districts and sub-district facilitators; and MIS (Management Information System) database
server costs and the salaries of computer operators.

Component 3: Training and Capacity Building . This component provided pre-service and refresher training for Generasi facilitators at the
levels. This component also financed evaluation workshops, training for MIS staff, and the development and dissemination of communica
materials to ensure Generasi and its approach was well understood at different levels. It also financed National Specialists (NMC) respon
complaints handling system.

Component 4: Incremental Costs and Goods . This component provided support to strengthen and expand the operations of the Secreta
Home Affairs (MoHA) including through workshops; through measures to improve coordination with other ministries; and through supervi
responsible for the implementation of due diligence practices and for the provision of support to the implementing agency government sta
management tasks.

Generasi was originally implemented through the same Secretariat and TA structure as PNPM-Rural as it originally was a component wit
rapid expansion of the PNPM-Rural to national scale had strained project management capacity. Therefore the GoI decided that, from 20
would be managed by a stand-alone secretariat within the Directorate of Traditional and Community Social and Cultural Empowerment (P
Sosial Buduya Masyarakat, or Sosbud), while PNPM-Rural would be managed by the Directorate of Institutional and Community Training
Pelatihan Masyarakat, or KPM). Both Sosbud and KPM were under the Directorate General for Village Community Empowerment (Pemp
Desa, or PMD). PMD was in the Ministry of Home Affairs, MoHa.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The project was restructured twice during implementation. The first restructuring (November 28, 2013) was carried out to extend the clo
December 21, 2014. Generasi was originally intended to operate at least until the end of 2014, in line with GoI’s implementation timefram
However, at the time of appraisal, the PSF Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF, TF-070967), the TF from which Generasi was financed, had a
December 31, 2012, thereby necessitating a later restructuring. The second restructuring (September 16, 2014) was carried out to realloc
across expenditure categories. The ICR does not provide any further information about which categories received more/less funds or the
reallocations. As part of both restructuring processes, the Bank recommended to the GoI that the RF be revised to better reflect the outpu
to Generasi. The GoI did not act upon this recommendation.

Project financing:
               th
The ICR (p7, 4 para), indicates that there was an agreement of financial contribution from the grantee in this project, by stating that “the
identify a need for a legally binding mechanism to ensure that the GoI abided by its co-financing commitments. This risk factor had an im
budgeting and financing, as the amount of GoI financing varied from year to year, and necessitated time consuming budget revisions”. Du
project team, IEG was informed that the GoI had abided by its financial commitment. Also, on the ICR’s page 22, it is stated that “ (…) the
financing (…) exceeded 42 percent of the total value of the budget in the period from 2010 to 2013. However, relevant figures are not inclu
table on page 25 (Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing), the figures presented refer only to Bank contributions. There is no information i
the GoI had initially committed to this project, nor how much it actually contributed.

Furthermore, it is unclear whether the collaboration with AusAID/DFAT on this project included cofinancing or parallel financing and/or tec
page 7 of the ICR it is stated: “The national Planning Board (Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, BAPPENAS) led the preparat
proactively convening meetings between MoHa, Australian Aid (AusAID) and the Bank to reach agreement of a multi-year financing plan
funds to cofinance the Generasi scale up.” It is unclear whether this meant that AusAID would be cofinancing the project, or whether their
through the PNPM Support Facility Multi Donor Trust Fund (PSF MDTF). No partners, not even AusAID are listed under “Cofinanciers or
in the ICR’s Summary table A Basic Information, and no external funds are reported in the financial tables in Annex 1, page 25, indicating
cofinanciers. However, DFAT (former AusAID) is mentioned several times in the ICR, (on p 7 as part of the agencies preparing the projec
the Bank mobilized support from donor partners, most notably DFAT to provide TA and enhanced support to the implementing agency; o
technical collaboration is mentioned, and Annex (“Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders contains substantial com
DFAT), indicating a close collaboration between the Bank and DFAT in this project. The nature of this collaboration remains, however, un

The project's disbursement methods were advance-and-reimbursement. Funds were released to villages in installments of 40-40-20% fo
parent project.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives is rated High.The project objectives were in line with the Bank’s 2009-2012 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Indonesia (Report No. 44845, July 22nd, 2008), as pointed out in the ICR (p. 2). The
Generasi project was well aligned with the strategy’s pro-poor pillar with a focus on community development and
improved health outcomes. In addition, the Generasi project was well aligned with the strategy’s goals of improving
local-level governance; facilitating a greater level of participation by women; increasing access to health and
education services; and facilitating a higher rate of participation in early childhood education and development
services. The Generasi project was still highly relevant at closure, as it was in line with both national priorities and the
Bank’s 2013-15 CPS for Indonesia. The 2012-15 CPS for Indonesia refers to – and uses as a starting point –
Indonesia’s own 2005-2025 Long Term Development Plan as well as Indonesia’s Medium Term Development Plan
2011-14. The Government’s approach to economic policy is based on its four strategic objectives of pro-growth,
pro-jobs, pro-poor and pro-green development. The Bank has adopted these four strategic objectives in its country
Partnership Strategy for 2013-15 (as it did for the previous one). In the 2013-15 CPS for Indonesia, this project is in
keeping with the strategy’s pro-poor pillar that is focusing on promoting communities, protecting the vulnerable and
improving health outcomes.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Design is Rated Substantial. The project’s components and activities were relevant to the stated
objectives, as Sub-district grants were designed to increase people’s socio-economic conditions (primarily through
health and education interventions), and Technical Assistance and Training and Capacity Building were designed to
strengthen the local governance conditions through strengthened participatory approaches and through management
of the subgrants. The prioritized sectors and areas for the subgrants were decided based on an Impact Evaluation
conducted at the start-up of the Generasi Project in 2010.

Quality of the results framework:
The statement of objectives is sufficiently clear in that it states what the final outcomes are expected to be, i.e.
(i) improved socio-economic conditions and (ii) improved local governance conditions, and it states who the
beneficiaries are, i.e. villagers in the project areas rural locations. However, the PDO is somewhat vague in that it
does not specify what is meant by “improved socio-economic and local governance conditions” in the statement itself.
This does become clear from the key indicators, however, focusing on access to health and education services. The
project development objective does not include any expected intermediate outcomes, such as e.g. improved nutrition
levels, decreased infant and maternal mortality rates, education learning outcomes, or fair and efficient
governance/management of the grants, which it could have. However, the project paper expressed an expectation of
such intermediate outcomes (improved nutrition, decreased infant and maternal mortality, improved learning
outcomes, etc.). These expected intermediate outcomes would in turn have the potential to contribute to the final
expected outcomes of the project; improved socio-economic conditions and improved local governance conditions.
There is a gap in the causal chain, however, between the expected outputs (e.g. percentage of women receiving iron
tablets, etc), and the expected outcomes (improved socio-economic conditions), in that it is assumed that health and
education outputs (like provision of iron tablet, regularly weight checks of infants, etc) will automatically lead to
improved health conditions.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

(a)      Improved socio-economic conditions ; Substantial
Following the logic of the project design, the results chain would look as follows:

Inputs: Provision of health and education services, specifically;
·        provision of scholarships, uniforms and books to poor students;
·        provision of antenatal care and professional birth attendants;
·        provision of care for infants, small children and mothers
·        subsidies for transportation costs for health visits and school;

Outputs:
The ICR reports on a lot of outputs in terms of number of people benefitting from project activities and health and
school facilities constructed. Outputs under Component 1 included (none of them have baseline or target values
presented in the ICR):
·        633 new health facilities constructed;
·        143 health facilities rehabilitated;
·        107 health facilities with improved sanitation facilities;
·        727,803 students receiving financial support (scholarships, uniforms, transport);
·        123,679 students receiving nutritional support (school feeding programs);
·        177,816 students receiving textbooks ;
·        269 additional classrooms built or rehabilitated at the primary level; and
·        251 schools with improved sanitation facilities.

Each community participating in the project reported on the 12 indicators presented in the table below (ICR Annex 2,
page 30). The target values are the same as for the parent project P132585 PNPM Generasi. Note that only four of
the 12 indicators have target values, and two of those target values are below the baseline value. Since target values
are missing for most of these indicators, It is not possible to assess the degree to which the targets were reached and
the objectives achieved. (PMS in the table stands for the Performance Monitoring Survey discussed in Section 10).

   Targeted Health Services                                     Baseline       Target        PMS            PMS
                                                                               2014          2013           2014
   Percentage of pregnant women receiving four prenatal         61.4           >75           70.3           91.22
   care visits
   Percentage of pregnant women receiving 90 iron               18             No target     39.4           32.43
   tablets
   Percentage of deliveries assisted by trained                 82.2           80            89.17          88.9
   professionals
   Percentage of women receiving two postnatal care             46.8           No target     50.83          47.5
   visits
   Percentage of children under one year receiving              75             No target     77.15          83.82
   complete childhood immunization
   Percentage of infants for which weight increases each        No             No target     64.77          75.36
   month                                                        baseline
   Percentage of children attending monthly weight              75             80            74.62          73.49
   checks for under-3s and biannually for under-5s
   Percentage of children under-five receiving vitamin A        71.5           No target     56.19          52.12
   twice a year
   Targeted education services
   Primary school enrolment of all children 6 to 12 years       98.5           No target     99.5           98.67
   old
   Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all primary               96             No target     91.18          89.64
   school-aged children
      Junior secondary school enrollment of all 13 to 15          87.4           70              95.83          95.73
      year olds
      Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all junior               86             No target       93.36          93.2
      secondary school-aged children

Nine of the 12 indicators showed lower levels of achievement in 2014 compared to 2013 (although four of the nine
were less than one percentage point below their 2013 level, which could have been the result of data collection and/or
rounding error) . The ICR states that the planned Impact Evaluation is expected to determine the reasons behind this
apparent downward trend.

The figures presented show that on average, Generasi increased the rate of utilization for eight of the 12 targeted
health and education services over baseline data. The result for three of the indicators, (i.e. the percentage of children
receiving monthly weight checks for under-threes and biannually for under-fives; the percentage of children under five
receiving vitamin A twice a year; and the minimum attendance rate of 85% for all primary aged children), declined
during the project period (i.e. end results were lower than baseline values). According to the ICR, ISM findings
suggest that a lack of availability of vitamin A tablets was a constraint on community performance, which could be an
explanation for the low figures for that indicator.

Intermediate Outcomes :
   Improved health. Despite the presentation in the ICR of findings from earlier IE research and evidence
     indicating that similar interventions had led to or were likely to lead to improved health for the beneficiaries, the
     ICR does not present evidence of measured outcomes from this specific project. However, an ERR analysis that
     was undertaken in 2013 found that benefits from Generasi grants included reduction rates of child malnutrition
     and stunting and increase in rates of school participation, which are indications of good outcomes (ICR p 18).

      Improved economy due to better health and less health and education expenses (as presented in the ERR
       estimates). An ERR analysis was undertaken in 2013, which found that benefits from Generasi grants included
       reductions in rates of child malnutrition and stunting and increases in rates of school participation, both of which
       had a positive effect on future earnings. The ERR yielded a benefit cost ratio of 1.90 (i.e. for every dollar
       invested, the return for beneficiaries is US$ 1.90. This was mainly derived from (i) income gains from increased
       education; )ii) savings from chronic diseases averted; (iii) gains for the prevention of diarrhea; and (iv) income
       gains for those who would have lived; and (v) income gains for those who would have died.

Final Outcomes: Improved socio-economic conditions.
Although it is likely that the two intermediate outcomes “improved health” and “improved economy” (due to improved
health) would have the potential to contribute to improved socio-economic conditions for the benefitting households,
the project did not measure or report on this expected final outcome.


(b)         Improved local governance conditions : Modest

Following the logic of the project design, the results chain would look as follows:

Inputs: Capacity building and technical assistance.

Outputs: Trained project staff, government officials and facilitators:
  155,457 health volunteers receiving training and operational support; and
  6,205 contract teachers and teaching assistants receiving operational support.

Intermediate Outcomes :
According to the ICR, the expected (intermediate) outcomes were;
   Increased level of participation of women and the poor;
   Communities equipped with the skills, recourses and knowledge necessary to engage local service
     providers.
   Increased awareness among service providers of health and education related needs of the communities;
     and
   Improved planning, utilization, oversight and accountability of the Project resources.

There were, however, no indicators in the results framework to measure these expected outcomes, and the ICR does
not present evidence to show the degree to which these outcomes have been achieved.

Final Outcomes: Improved local governance conditions
1. There are no indicators in the results framework pertaining to this objective. According to the ICR, it was
   expected that Generasi would improve local governance conditions by: increasing the level of participation of
   women and the poor in health and education related decision making processes;
2. equipping communities with the skills, resources, and knowledge necessary to engage local service providers
   collaboratively in the identification of solutions to barriers to accessing services;
3. increasing awareness among local service providers (teachers, midwives, health workers, school principals) of
   the health and education related needs of poor community members and being more responsive to these needs;
   and
4. improving the planning, utilization, oversight and accountability for Project resources at all levels of
   implementation.

While these are all good and relevant outcomes to expect from the operation, the ICR does not present sufficient
evidence for their achievement. Achievement of these expected outcomes were not measured or reported on.

 5. Efficiency:
  Efficiancy is rated Substantial.
The administrative efficiency of the project was good. The project became efficient on the same day as it was
approved (i.e. on 8/16/2010). There were no prolonged extensions; the extension that was granted during the
restructuring was planned from start-up; as outlined in the ICR (p 5, section 1.7.2): “Generasi was originally intended
to operate at least until the end of 2014, in line with GoI’s implementation timeframe for PNPM-Rural. However, at the
time of appraisal, the PSF Multi Donor Trust Fund (MDTF)(…), the TF from which Generasi was financed, had a
closing date of June 30, 2013. As such, Generasi had to be implemented with the original closing date of December
31, 2012, thereby necessitating a later restructuring”. There were no cancellations of unused funds.

According to the ICR (p 18), an ERR analysis was undertaken in 2013, which found that benefits from Generasi
grants included reductions in rates of child malnutrition and stunting and increases in rates of school participation,
both of which had a positive effect on future earnings. The ERR yielded a benefit cost ratio of 1.90 (i.e. for every dollar
invested, the return for beneficiaries is US$ 1.90. This was mainly derived from (i) income gains from increased
education; ii) savings from chronic diseases averted; (iii) gains for the prevention of diarrhea; and (iv) income gains for
those who would have lived; and (v) income gains for those who would have died.

Furthermore, a technical evaluation of infrastructure referred to in the ICR (p 18) showed that, in general, PNPM
infrastructure subprojects were at least 15-25 percent less expensive to design and implement than similar line
Ministry-funded projects. The ICR does not provide any indication as to why this was the case. This background
information could potentially have yielded important lessons for similar and future operations.

The ICR also refers findings from the Impact Evaluation. However, the Impact Evaluation was conducted at the
start-up of the project and provided valuable baseline data. It did not provide information about the achievements of
this operation.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
    Relevance of Objective is rated High as the PDO was well in line with both national priorities and with the Bank’s
CPS at the time of closure. Relevance of Design is rated Substantial as the project’s components and activities were
relevant to the stated objective. The efficacy of achievement of the first objective is Substantial, while the efficacy of
achievement of the second objective is Modest due to weak documentation of expected project outcomes. Efficiency
is rated Substantial, as the ICR provides clear and convincing arguments in support of the rating.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  The Risk to Development Outcome Rating is Moderate. The ICR divides the potential risks into 4 categories:
(i)          Political and Financial Risk Implications are considered to be moderate, as the new government is
             supportive of CDD efforts and has made health and education an integral component of their new priority
             agenda. The GoI has also included Generasi in its 2015-19 National Medium Term Development Plan.
(ii)         Risks to Institutional Changes are considered to be moderate, as following the delinking of Generasi from
             the parent project and the subsequent establishment of the new secretariat, the GoI has committed to
             rehiring and back paying all project staff, mitigating the risk of losing capacity built up through previous
             years of implementation.
(iii)        Technical Risks are considered to be low, as the capacities of village facilitators have improved
             significantly throughout project implementation; and finally
(iv)         Social Risks (defined as communities suffering from fatigue and failing to maintain enthusiasm for the
             project) are considered to be low and can be mitigated by ensuring continued participatory engagement.

        a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The pilot project was designed following the structure of an already well-functioning project. As reported on
page 1 of the ICR, the rigorous impact evaluation that accompanied the pilot phase of Generasi (2007-9) found a
statistically significant positive project impact for the 12 health and education indicators. The Impact Evaluation
also provided baseline data for the planned expansion. This made for a sound design of the project, which was
relevant both in its approach and in focus. The technical, financial and economic aspects of the project design
were appropriate in that the availability of funding was taken into account in the planning (regarding the closing
dates and need for extension). However, the project was prepared during a very short timeframe, which resulted in
some weaknesses, most notably with the Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements and the Results Framework.
The identified indicators were mainly at an output level and the PDO-level indicators had targets with end dates
that did not correspond with the project’s implementation period (as detailed in section 10a below). Furthermore,
the role and responsibility of the M&E system and processes were not clearly described in the Project Paper; it
was not mentioned at all in the description of the Components.

        Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank undertook seven supervision missions during the lifetime of the projects, i.e. approximately two per
year. The quality of supervision is rated Satisfactory, as the Bank mobilized a multi-disciplinary team with
substantial experience in supervising previous Bank-financed CDD projects in Indonesia. The team initiated and
commissioned several monitoring and evaluation studies of the project and mobilized support from other sections
of the Bank and from donor partners to provide TA and enhanced support to the Implementing Agency. The team
also responded adequately to the GoIs changes to the project’s administrative arrangements in delinking Generasi
from its parent project, in that Generasi was made an independent project also within the Bank.


        Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

        Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government of Indonesia was leading the planning process of this project. The National Planning Board (
Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional, BAPPENAS) led the preparation of the project by proactively
convening meetings between the Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA), Australian Aid and the Bank to reach
agreement on a multi-year financing plan for the use of PNPM Support Facility Multi-Donor Trust Fund (PSF
MDTF) funds to co-finance the Generasi scale-up.

The GoI demonstrated strong commitment to the project throughout implementation, as it was perceived as a
means of fulfilling its commitment to the achievement of the MDGs.

When it became apparent that the Directorate managing the parent project did not have the capacity to manage
both the parent project and Generasi once it was scaling up, the Government delinked Generasi from the parent
project and moved Generasi management to a different Directorate. The GoI also contributed substantial financial
resources to the project; the annual allocation of GoI financing exceeded 42 percent of the total value of the
budget in the period from 2010 to 2013. There is no information in the ICR as to how much the Government of
Indonesia had initially committed to this project, nor how much it actually contributed.

There were, however, some coordination challenges with the line ministries, and delays in budget revision and
execution negatively impacted project implementation. As budget allocations were confirmed on an annual basis
and only applied to a single year, there was no mechanism for securing up-front agreement on multi-year
contributions to Generasi. Despite this, the GoI ensured a reasonable level of quality at preparation, relatively
smooth implementation and compliance with Grant covenants and agreements.

       Government Performance Rating                            Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    According to the ICR (page 22), the performance of the implementing agency, i.e. the Directorate for Village
Community Empowerment (PMD) improved considerably after the delinking of Generasi from PNPM-Rural III and
after the appointment of the Directorate of Traditional Community Social and Cultural Empowerment as the
implementing agency. The implementing agency acted quickly to hire specialists to ensure that the secretariat was
fully staffed and functioning. Monthly program progress reports were prepared and submitted on time, regular
monitoring missions covered all provinces and districts on a rotating basis, and the results of joint monitoring
activities with the Bank were documented in Aide Memoires and follow-up plans. The Directorate for Village
Community Empowerment supported the implementation of additional M&E efforts needed to provide information
on Project performance. PMD prioritized financial oversight and controls over technical health and education
issues, which resulted in improved Financial Management ratings over the life of the project.

Some of the implementing challenges included delays in budget effectiveness, internal reallocations of funds not
in line with BAPPENAS’ proposed allocations, delays in updating and distributing the operations manual and
conducting post-procurement oversight. No further information about these shortcomings, like e.g. the reasons for
the internal reallocation of funds not in line with BAPPENAS’ proposed allocations, are provided in the ICR.

       Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

       Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory



 10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:

M&E is not mentioned as a specific activity under any of the project components, neither in the Project Paper not in
the ICR. The AF Project Paper lacked a detailed M&E section, but Annex 1 in the AF Project Paper expanded the
PNPM-Rural III results framework to include the 12 health and education related targets (detailed below). The
project’s M&E design had some weaknesses in that the PDO indicators did not capture and relate to the stated project
development objectives, and the 12 education and health target indicators were mainly input-and output-based.

The stated PDO was “that villagers in PNPM rural locations benefit from improved socio-economic and local
governance conditions”.
The PDO indicators pertaining to this objective were:

i)          Immunization coverage
ii)         Number of prenatal care visits
iii)        Number of deliveries assisted by trained professionals

Communities used participatory planning and block grant funds to reach 12 education and health target indicators,
which were the following:

Health Targets:
1. Four prenatal care visits for pregnant women
2. Taking iron tablets during pregnancy
3. Delivery assisted by a trained professional
4. Two postnatal care visits
5. Complete childhood immunizations
6. Ensuring monthly weight increases for infants
7. Monthly weighing for children under three and biannually for under-fives
8. Vitamin A twice a year for under-fives
Education Targets:
9. Primary School enrolment for all children aged 6 to 12 years old
10. Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all primary school aged children
11. Junior Secondary School enrolment for all 13 to 15 year olds
12. Minimum attendance rate of 85% for all junior secondary school aged children.

There was a major assumption (i.e. a gap in the logical/causal chain) that these inputs/outputs automatically would
lead to improved health and education outcomes for the target population.

The project paper states that “the attainment of these 12 targets is measured through the project’s management
information system as well as the series of impact evaluations. According to the Project Paper (p 9 para 25), PNPM
Generasi’s evaluation system also tracks impacts on longer term outcomes such as malnutrition, infant and maternal
mortality, and education learning outcomes (Project Paper p 9 para 25). However, the project did not have indicators
to capture such expected impacts and longer-term outcomes and they were not reported by the ICR.

Furthermore, the results framework had 2010 target dates that did not correspond with the implementation schedule,
which ran to 2012.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   Despite the fairly limited M&E design at preparation, additional M&E activities were implemented to measure
project achievement beyond what was defined in the 2010 project paper. The Bank and the GoI made efforts to
correct the original weaknesses of the RF to ensure that the GoI had the data needed to improve project performance.


The Government of Indonesia developed an M&E Strategy specific to Generasi during project implementation. This
strategy included:
(i)       Strengthening the web-based MIS
(ii)      Implementation of two qualitative studies
(iii)     Implementation of a Performance Monitoring Survey (PMS) in 2013 and 2014

By 2013, the expansion and profile of Generasi resulted in an increased demand for data on implementation progress
from key stakeholders, which the MIS alone could not provide. To address this, two Performance Monitoring Surveys
were conducted, which used a small cluster sampling methodology that enabled an assessment of how the project
was performing on average across all participating villages. The PMS complemented the MIS, as did the two
qualitative studies and the Impact Evaluation (IE) implemented at project start-up.

There is no information in the ICR, though, as to whether these improvements to the MIS and additional studies
included results indicators at the Intermediate Outcome and Outcome levels. It is unclear to what extent these
improvements and additions actually tracked the relative achievement of expected outcomes like malnutrition rates,
infant and maternal mortality rates, and learning outcomes.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR reports that the project actively used M&E data for tracking progress and for adjusting project
implementation, but it does not provide any concrete examples of how M&E data was used for implementation
adjustments, which would have been helpful to have. When the need for further information emerged, the project team
adjusted and expanded the M&E system; conducted additional qualitative studies and performance surveys. Baseline
data and findings from the early rounds of the impact study were used when planning for the pilot project expansion.
Another Impact Evaluation is planned for 2016 that will build on the data and findings from the 2010 IE.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Generasi did not trigger any additional safeguards policies and followed the same provisions as PNPM Rural III.

Generasi was classified a Category B project. As was the case with PNPM-Rural III, four safeguard policies were
triggered: (i) environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01); (ii) Natural habitats (OP/BP 4.04); (iii) indigenous peoples
(OP/BP 4.10); and (iv) involuntary resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Generasi AFs continued to apply the PNPM Rural
Environment and Social Safeguards, Indigenous and Vulnerable Peoples, and Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Policy frameworks. These instruments were embedded in the PNPM-Rural and Generasi Project Guidelines and
Operational Manuals and were used to trigger safeguards policies.

For Environmental Assessment and Natural Habitats, no stand-alone EA was necessary. The Implementation Support
Missions conducted throughout the project found no evidence of adverse environmental impacts as a result of the
implementation of Generasi sub-projects. For Indigenous Peoples, an Isolated and Vulnerable Peoples Planning
Framework was developed under PNPM-Rural III, which was embedded in Generasi’s design. Generasi provided
incentives for communities and facilitators to include all community members in Generasi activities, including IPs.
Implementation Support Missions found no evidence of adverse social impact. For Involuntary Resettlement, the Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework developed under PNPM-Rural III was applied to Generasi. The
project financed the rehabilitation and expansion of local health facilities and schools on land already owned. In the
event that additional land was needed in order to facilitate the expansion of a facility, such a land would be donated
and the donation process documented. No land acquisition was financed under the project.

The project’s safeguards instruments were revised in 2013 to maintain consistency with the simplified instruments
applied under PNPM-Rural IV. Safeguard guidelines for PNPM-Generasi were defined in the new Implementation
Guidelines for Social and Environmental Safeguards (IGSES), which was satisfactorily prepared and disclosed on
November 20, 2013.

A safeguards thematic review was conducted by the Bank in mid-2014 which found no serious adverse environmental
or social impacts in Project locations.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Generasi used the PNOPM-Rural III Better Governance Action Plan (BGAP), which included a system to identify and
resolve cases of suspected mismanagement, fraud or corruption, including embezzlement, budget mark-ups and
price-fixing.

As reported in the ICR (p 12), there were 59 recorded cases of suspected mismanagement in 2013-14, of which 54
involved cases of fraud and/or corruption, four cases related to non-compliance and one case related to force
majeure. The fraud and/or corruption cases involved a total of 3.09 billion IDR (approximately US$ 230.000.-), of
which IDR 1.86 billion (60%) has been recovered. An effective sanction was the suspension of project disbursements
to sub-districts with unresolved cases of fraud and corruption.

Financial Management:
The project complied with FM policies. It developed an online disbursement application database system at the district
level, which resulted in a better managed Interim Financial Reporting process. The project received unqualified
opinions from the external auditor in 2011, 2012 and 2013 (the 2014 auditing was not finalized prior to the ICR). Audit
coverage reached 29 percent in 2011, 54 percent in 2012, and 32 percent in 2013. The ICR does not provide any
explanation for the relatively large varieties in coverage from year to year, but states that (p 12): “This coverage is
considerably above the target of a minimum of 20 percent of Generasi locations”. The ICR reports that the project’s
financial management performance improved over time.

Procurement
The procurement of the first Administrative Service Firm was conducted in 2012, at the point when the responsibility
for the implementation of the Generasi was shifted between Directorates. Following resolution of this issues, the
procurement at the national level was generally carried out in compliance with the Procurement Plan and was rated
Moderately Satisfactory in the latest ISR (Nov 2014). No significant issues were noted during annual ex-post reviews
conducted by the Bank.

Generasi initiated improvements in the bidding process, which improved transparency and simplified the tasks of both
the bidder and the bid assessors. The revised bidding documents are now also used by PNPM-Rural 2012-2015.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR does not report on any unintended effects of the project.

d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Main lessons to be drawn from this project are:
1. Demand side efforts are sufficient to increase the rate of utilization of health and educational services .
    However, complementary supply -side interventions are needed for higher-level impact . For the improved
    provision of frontline services over the long term, it is necessary to ensure
    engagement between demand and supply-side reform efforts. Generasi was effective in increasing the rate of
    utilization of services and in increasing service provider and community efforts to provide basic
    services. However, community and frontline service providers are limited in their ability to improve
    aspects of service provision quality, which is affected by factors such as the procurement of inputs like
    vaccines and the district budgets for operations and maintenance.

2.   An effective gender strategy must focus on both women and men , rather than exclusively on
     women. Since men play a key role in decisions that affect maternal and child welfare, such as directing
     household expenditures towards health and education services and nutritious foods, it is important that
     also men are involved in health and education awareness raising efforts.

3.   Greater local (district) government engagement is needed to institutionalize and sustain project mechanisms
     Generasi was integrated in the national government budget cycle, but only to a limited extent in district
     budgets. This resulted in the absence of an exit-strategy at the local level, and limited the opportunity for local
     governments to build on the project’s achievements or optimize use of the assets invested in by the project.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides rich descriptions of the project and its achievements. Although results-oriented, the ICR does not
provide sufficient evidence for the claims of achieved outcomes. The Project Paper stated that PNPM Generasi’s
evaluation system should track impacts on longer term outcomes such as malnutrition, infant and maternal mortality,
and education learning outcomes (PP p 9 para 25). These impacts and longer term outcomes were not reported by
the ICR, however.

There are some inconsistencies and ambiguities in the ICR, (in addition to some minor discrepancies in figures and
typing errors in the tables), these include: (i) the role of AusAID/DFAT and the Borrower’s contribution as outlined in
section 2d; and (ii) the lack of information as to what kind of indicators were measured and tracked under the
additional M&E activities (the surveys and studies).
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
