                                               INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET
                                                     RESTRUCTURING STAGE
                                        Note: This ISDS will be considered effective only upon approval of the project restructuring
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                                               Report No.: ISDSR6282
                         Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11-Nov-2013
                         Date ISDS Approved/Disclosed: 20-Nov-2013
                         I. BASIC INFORMATION
                            1. Basic Project Data

                            Country:          Indonesia                                    Project ID:           P122032
                            Project Name:     ID-TF ADDITIONAL FINANCING OF PNPM RURAL III FOR GENERASI
                                              (COMM.CCT) SCALING-UP PROGRAM (P122032)
                            Task Team         Robert Wrobel
                            Leader:
                            Estimated                                                      Estimated   23-Jul-2010
                            Appraisal Date:                                                Board Date:
                            Managing Unit: EASID                                           Lending     Specific Investment Loan
                                                                                           Instrument:
                            Sector:           Health (34%), Other social services (33%), Primary education (33%)
                            Theme:            Child health (40%), Other human development (30%), Other social development
                                              (30%)
                            Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency
                            Recovery) or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and                                                          No
Public Disclosure Copy




                            Emergencies)?
                            Financing (in USD Million)
                            Total Project Cost:        38.32           Total Bank Financing:                                           0.00
                            Financing Gap:              0.00
                                Financing Source                                                                                 Amount
                              Borrower                                                                                             0.00
                              Indonesia - Program for Community Empowerment                                                       38.32
                              Total                                                                                               38.32
                            Environmental B - Partial Assessment
                            Category:
                            Is this a         No
                            Repeater
                            project?

                            2. Current Project Development Objectives


                            3. Project Description

                                                                                Page 1 of 9
                         The purpose of the project is to expand PNPM Generasi coverage from the original 164 pilot rural
                         kecamatan (sub-districts) into a further 150 kecamatan in five existing provinces in 2012 and 2013
                         (Gorontalo, West Nusa Tenggara, Sulawesi Barat and Maluku) and strengthen the capacity of the
Public Disclosure Copy




                         implementation agency to manage the program scale-up. PNPM. A related project, the PNPM
                         Generasi stand-alone project (P132585), will continue to expand the work financed through this
                         project from 2014 onwards.

                         According to the most recent Implementation Status Report (October 9, 2013), progress towards
                         PDO achievement was rated as Satisfactory, while overall implementation progress was rated as
                         Moderately Satisfactory. PNPM Generarsi is meeting outcome and intermediate targets for:
                         immunization coverage (75%), increase in pre-natal care visits (10%) and increase in deliveries
                         assisted by a trained professional (10%) since 2010. When measured against intermediate results
                         indicators, the project is on track to achieve its objectives. On average, villages surpass minimum
                         targets for 10 of the 12 community health and education target indicators. Participation by women
                         and the poorest community members reached 69% and 58% respectively in 2012, which are higher
                         than those reported in PNPM-Rural. FM and Procurement are rated as Moderately Satisfactory and
                         all safeguards implementation has been rated Satisfactory.

                         The project consists of the following components:

                         A.       Kecamatan Grants (US$93.5 million). The bulk of the financing will be used to provide
                         block grants and administrative costs to target sub-districts. In 2011these funds will cover 48 existing
                         sub-districts in West Nusa Tenggara province and 90 new sub-districts.

                         B.      Technical Assistance (US$9.4 million). These funds will support additional project technical
                         assistance for health and education planning, and district, provincial and national database
                         management. Sustained database support is needed to improve the performance of the program’s
                         innovative information management system.
Public Disclosure Copy




                         C. Training and Capacity Building (US$1.7 million). These funds will support additional training for
                         PNPM Generasi facilitators at all levels of program delivery. This includes refresher training for
                         existing staff, pre-service training for new staff, specialized training for district database operators,
                         and regional evaluation workshops.

                         D. Incremental Costs and Goods (US$0.4 million). These funds will be used to support and expand
                         the operations of the PNPM Rural/Generasi secretariat in the Ministry of Home Affairs. Funds will
                         cover government-sponsored workshops, coordination with other ministries, and supervision.

                         Proposed changes under restructuring:

                         (i)     Extend the trust fund closing day by one year from 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2014.
                         In 2012 the Government of Indonesia decided to finance a larger share of Generasi community
                         grants, which led to the reorganization of Kecamatan Grants to 2013 and 2014.

                         (ii)Update the Operational Risk Assessment Framework to reflect the most recent risk assessment
                         and mitigation measures.

                         As part of the restructuring process the project ISDS is also being updated to reflect the latest


                                                                       Page 2 of 9
                         safeguards policies and instruments used in PNPM-Rural and PNPM Generasi (P132585).
                          4. Project location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
                         analysis (if known)
Public Disclosure Copy




                         PNPM Generasi currently operates in eight provinces (West Java, East Java, North Sulawesi, West
                         Nusa Tenggara (NTB), East Nusa Tenggara (NTT), Maluku, Gorontalo and West Sulawesi). The
                         Additional Financing will expand PNPM Generasi operations into three new provinces: West
                         Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan and South Sumatra, bringing total program coverage to
                         approximately 6,000 villages in 500 rural sub-districts (kecamatans).

                         The project primarily finances social investments in education and health, with a relatively small
                         percentage of these investments used to construct or rehabilitate education and health infrastructure
                         (e.g. early childhood development centers). The project also provides kecamatan grants to support
                         sub-district and village level planning processes, including the provision of training and technical
                         inputs to strengthen planning and implementation readiness. Planning includes a simple, community
                         assessment of environmental impact where infrastructure projects are proposed.

                         Overall safeguards compliance has been rated as Satisfactory in the latest project implementation
                         status and results report. PNPM Generasi will continue to use the Implementation Guidelines for
                         Social and Environmental Safeguards (IGSES) 2012 as its safeguards instrument. IGSES is based on
                         implementation experience of both, PNPM Rural and PNMP Generasi. The IGSES also includes
                         good-practice principles for the indigenous peoples’ participation.
                          5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
                         Juan Martinez (EASIS)
                         Dennie Stenly Mamonto (EASIS)

                          6. Safeguard Policies              Triggered? Explanation (Optional)
                          Environmental Assessment OP/       Yes
Public Disclosure Copy




                          BP 4.01
                          Natural Habitats OP/BP 4.04        No               As part of the restructuring process the project
                                                                              ISDS is also being updated to reflect the latest
                                                                              safeguards policies and instruments used in
                                                                              PNPM-Rural and PNPM Generasi (P132585),
                                                                              which no longer trigger this policy.
                          Forests OP/BP 4.36                 No

                          Pest Management OP 4.09            No

                          Physical Cultural Resources OP/    No               As part of the restructuring process the project
                          BP 4.11                                             ISDS is also being updated to reflect the latest
                                                                              safeguards policies and instruments used in
                                                                              PNPM-Rural and PNPM Generasi (P132585),
                                                                              which no longer trigger this policy.
                          Indigenous Peoples OP/BP 4.10      Yes




                                                                      Page 3 of 9
                            Involuntary Resettlement OP/BP      No               As part of the restructuring process the project
                            4.12                                                 ISDS is also being updated to reflect the latest
                                                                                 safeguards policies and instruments used in
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                                 PNPM-Rural and PNPM Generasi (P132585),
                                                                                 which no longer trigger this policy.
                            Safety of Dams OP/BP 4.37           No

                            Projects on International        No
                            Waterways OP/BP 7.50
                            Projects in Disputed Areas OP/BP No
                            7.60

                         II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
                             A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
                            1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the Restructured project.
                              Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
                               This project will not create any large-scale, significant, or irreversible environmental or social
                              impacts, therefore the safeguard issues and impacts associated directly with the proposed project
                              are insignificant, non-irreversible, and site-specific. Mitigation measures are carried out through
                              community participation and community-based sub-project management.

                              Safeguards guidelines for PNPM-Generasi are contained in the Implementation Guidelines for
                              Social and Environmental Safeguards (IGSES) developed under the PNPM-Rural 2012-2015
                              program, which is an annex to the operations manual (PTO). The IGSES was revised during the
                              preparation and appraisal of PNPM-Rural 2012-2015 to reflect recent lessons in implementing
                              environmental and social safeguards, the set of environmental code of practices for rural
Public Disclosure Copy




                              infrastructure as well as health and safety standards for community sub-projects.

                              Environmental Assessment: PNPM Generasi investments take the form primarily of social
                              investments in education and health. From 2007 to 2011, investments in health and education
                              infrastructure averaged less than $2,500 per village. These investments are small, discrete, and
                              non-cumulative. As the umbrella program PNPM-Rural covers all rural sub-districts in the country
                              with a wide range of activities proposed by communities, it is anticipated that there could be
                              environmental impacts, and therefore PNPM-Rural triggers the Bank’s policy on Environmental
                              Assessment.

                              In the sub-districts where PNPM Generasi operates, a team of three sub-district facilitators—two
                              of which specialize in community empowerment and one of which is a civil engineer—assists
                              local communities identify, plan, design, and implement sub-projects that improve community
                              access to health and education services. Technical sub-district facilitators, with support and
                              oversight from district technical consultants, are trained to assist communities to screen for
                              possible environmental and social impacts. If environmental impacts are anticipated, facilitators
                              provide guidance to the communities for developing and implementing measures to address and
                              mitigate the impacts. Measures for mitigating negative impacts are included in the revised PNPM
                              Generasi PTO, which includes the IGSES, training procedures, field supervision and criteria for
                              evaluation of the consultant civil engineers.


                                                                         Page 4 of 9
                         Indigenous Peoples: Indonesian communities covered by the World Bank's policy on indigenous
                         people can generally be classified in two categories:
Public Disclosure Copy




                         a)      Masyarakat Adat (MA)/ Adat communities/ customary law communities. These are based
                         on lineage or locality and are bound by customary law. Characteristics of these communities
                         include: (i) self-identification as a distinct indigenous cultural group, (ii) collective attachment to
                         ancestral territories and to the natural resources in the territories; and (iii) customary cultural,
                         economic, social, or political institutions.

                         b)       Komunitas Adat Terpencil (KAT)/ Isolated and Vulnerable communities (IVPs). This is a
                         government-designated category of customary law communities that live in isolated areas. The
                         characteristics attributed to these co mmunities include: (i) collective attachment to ancestral
                         territories and to the natural resources in the territories; (ii) customary cultural, economic, social,
                         or political institutions; (iii) an indigenous language. They are also identified by government as: (i)
                         having a subsistence economy, (ii) using simple tools and technology, (iii) having a high
                         dependence on the environment and local natural resources, and (iv) having restricted access to
                         social, economic, and political services.

                         The implementing agency should screen locations using the list of geographical distribution of
                         IVPs (based on “Komunitas Adat Terpencil? or “KAT?) in Indonesia, as presented in the
                         "EGIMap - Strengthening IPs Screening in Indonesia", 2010, World Bank. The PNPM Generasi
                         Program Secretariat in PMD will use this as a reference for carrying out screening in PNPM
                         Generasi locations. The Program Secretariat will ensure that the list is disseminated to provincial,
                         district, and sub-district consultants and facilitators. In locations in which IVPs are present, sub-
                         district facilitators will ensure that the standard social mapping process applies cultural criteria in
                         order identify IVPs and involve them in program planning, decision-making, and implementation
                         processes as stipulated in the IGSES. The PNPM-Rural series of operations, of which PNPM
                         Generasi is a part, has already applied good-practice principles for indigenous peoples’
Public Disclosure Copy




                         participation and involvement, including: recruitment and tailored training for facilitators from the
                         same ethnic groups; the use of local languages where needed; independent reviews by socio-
                         cultural specialists; and modifications to the planning process to ensure free prior and informed
                         consultations with broad community support.

                         PNPM Generasi benefits from the work in PNPM-Rural to further strengthen the capacity of
                         program facilitators to address IP concerns through future rounds of facilitator training, and
                         screening of locations for indigenous peoples will be strengthened. Furthermore, due to
                         nonparticipation of some isolated communities in PNPM-Rural, a rapid social assessment was
                         carried out during the preparation of PNPM 2012-2015, and the IGSES has been updated to take
                         the recommendations into account.

                         Land Donations: PNPM-Rural and PNPM Generasi do not contain any involuntary acquisition of
                         land or involuntary resettlement in any project activities, whether financed by PNPM-Rural,
                         PNPM Generasi, or by other sources. The IGSES, which is an annex to the PNPM Generasi
                         Operations Manual, contains detailed procedures to regulate the planning, documentation and
                         verification procedures for voluntary donation. All land requirements for project activities will be
                         done through land donations and under the community consent with appropriate informed consent
                         and documentation. There is no possibility of the use of eminent domain and persons have the
                         right to refuse to donate their land.

                                                                     Page 5 of 9
                           Gender: The ongoing PNPM Generasi operation is designed to specifically engage women as
                           participants in program planning and decision making and respond to women’s basic needs by
Public Disclosure Copy




                           increasi ng access to health and education services. The project MIS shows that women have been
                           the dominant participants in village-level participatory planning and decision-making (averaging
                           over 60% of participants since 2007). Under the proposed project, PNPM Generasi’s target
                           beneficiaries would continue to be pregnant women and those who have recently given birth,
                           children under five, and primary school-aged children. PNPM Generasi implementing agency will
                           work to expand engagement of the entire community in issues of maternal and child health,
                           notably husbands and caregivers (e.g., grandparents and other extended family members) through
                           partnerships with local civil society organizations and local health facilities.
                         2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities
                           in the project area:
                            There are no potential significant long-term adverse impacts triggered by this project. Mitigation
                           against any negative impacts can be managed through community-based approaches with good
                           engineering design and construction practices.
                         3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize adverse
                           impacts.
                            N/A
                         4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an
                           assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
                            As a support program of PNPM-Rural, all updated safeguards policies and mitigating measures
                           defined in the IGSES are applicable and enforced through PNPM Generasi. All updated safeguard
                           guidelines in the Operations Manual are applicable and enforced through PNPM Generasi and are
                           subject to be updated from time to time based on safeguards recommendations that emerge from
                           joint World Bank and Government implementation support missions. For PNPM Generasi, the
                           GOI updated the existing safeguards guidelines and included the revised IGSES (2012) as a
Public Disclosure Copy




                           supplement to the PNPM Generasi Operations Manual (PTO).

                           Disclosure is Mandatory. The PNPM Rural and PNPM Generasi Operations Manuals, including
                           the IGSES, are disclosed in Bahasa Indonesia on the PNPM-Rural website http://pnpm-perdesaan.
                           or.id/. An executive summary of the IGSES in English is available through the Bank’s InfoShop.
                           Additional English-language material is available upon request.

                           A central focus recent implementation support has been to assess the extent to which PNPM
                           Generasi consultants and facilitators are aware of the IGSES, as well as the effectiveness of the
                           level of cooperation with PNPM-Rural consultants and facilitators to ensure the quality of the
                           initial screening and mitigation processes conducted at the village, sub-district and district levels.
                           Facilitators receive a 21-day pre-service training prior to deployment, as well as an annual nine
                           day refresher training. The pre-service and refresher trainings include modules dedicated
                           specifically to safeguards and the IGSES. These trainings were conducted for PNPM Generasi
                           facilitators in October 15 – 21, 2012 and November 1-9, 2012. The training modules will be
                           updated to comply with the latest IGSES version (2012).
                         5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure
                           on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
                             The key stakeholders and decision makers are villagers in rural areas. PNPM-Rural/PNPM
                           Generasi social and environmental objectives and procedures are explained at inter-village


                                                                       Page 6 of 9
                           meetings and during community-level trainings for village facilitators and for the TPKs (Village
                           Implementation Teams).
Public Disclosure Copy




                           There are several ways in which PNPM-Rural/PNPM Generasi addresses indigenous and
                           vulnerable groups:

                           a)      Developing dissemination and facilitation materials that are culturally appropriate, in
                           collaboration with local communities.

                           b)      Using appropriate, inclusive decision-making mechanisms in environments where
                           indigenous groups are politically and culturally marginalized, including free, prior and informed
                           consultations leading to broad community support at the community level.

                           c)       Introducing innovative and effective ways to involve groups, such as women, that tend to
                           be excluded from traditional institutions. In Generasi, these include the mobilization of “mother’s
                           groups? (kolompok ibu) in each participating sub-village that are involved in project planning,
                           counseling, and parenting activities. That said the task team implementing agency is aware that
                           men play a key role in determining household decisions that affect nutrition and education of
                           children. Project facilitators therefore also make efforts to involve husbands and fathers in local
                           nutrition and parenting counseling sessions supported by the program.

                           d)       Addressing concerns that marginalized indigenous groups are especially vulnerable to
                           problems of elite domination and corruption. Adaptations include recruiting and training
                           facilitators from marginalized communities, providing specialized logistical support (higher
                           transport costs for facilitators to reach isolated areas), employing two village facilitators (one man
                           and one woman) in all locations who are trained and mentored in order for them to gradually take
                           charge of village planning and accountability meetings, proposal writing, and oversight.

                           Furthermore, participatory consultation takes place in the form of inter-village, village, and sub-
Public Disclosure Copy




                           village meetings. Environmental and social screening and mitigation measures are identified and
                           agreed among the beneficiaries during the preparation of the sub-project proposals and discussed
                           during community meetings.
                         B. Disclosure Requirements
                         Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other
                           Date of receipt by the Bank                                       30-Aug-2012
                           Date of submission to InfoShop                                    05-Oct-2012
                           For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
                           Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
                         "In country" Disclosure
                           Indonesia                                                         17-Sep-2012
                           Comments: Disclosure is Mandatory. The PNPM Rural and PNPM Generasi Operations
                                         Manuals, including the IGSES, are disclosed in Bahasa Indonesia on the PNPM-
                                         Rural website http://pnpm-perdesaan.or.id/. An executive summary of the IGSES in
                                         English is available through the Bank’s InfoShop. Additional English-language
                                         material is available upon request.
                          Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework


                                                                       Page 7 of 9
                           Date of receipt by the Bank                                       30-Aug-2012
                           Date of submission to InfoShop                                    05-Oct-2012
                         "In country" Disclosure
Public Disclosure Copy




                           Indonesia                                                         17-Sep-2012
                           Comments: Disclosure is Mandatory. The PNPM Rural and PNPM Generasi Operations
                                         Manuals, including the IGSES, are disclosed in Bahasa Indonesia on the PNPM-
                                         Rural website http://pnpm-perdesaan.or.id/. An executive summary of the IGSES in
                                         English is available through the Bank’s InfoShop. Additional English-language
                                         material is available upon request.
                         If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources policies, the
                         respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental Assessment/
                         Audit/or EMP.
                         If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why:


                         C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
                         OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
                          Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP)          Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          report?
                         OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples
                          Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework          Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          (as appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected
                          Indigenous Peoples?
                          If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or   Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          Sector Manager review the plan?
                          If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design     Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
Public Disclosure Copy




                          been reviewed and approved by the Regional Social
                          Development Unit or Sector Manager?
                         The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
                          Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the        Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          World Bank's Infoshop?
                          Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public      Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          place in a form and language that are understandable and
                          accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs?
                         All Safeguard Policies
                          Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional         Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          responsibilities been prepared for the implementation of
                          measures related to safeguard policies?
                          Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included      Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          in the project cost?
                          Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project           Yes [   ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                          include the monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures
                          related to safeguard policies?



                                                                     Page 8 of 9
                             Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed     Yes [    ]   No [   ]   NA [   ]
                             with the borrower and the same been adequately reflected in
                             the project legal documents?
Public Disclosure Copy




                         III. APPROVALS
                            Task Team Leader: Robert Wrobel
                            Approved By
                            Regional Safeguards Name:                                              Date:
                            Coordinator:
                            Sector Manager:     Name: Susanne Holste (SM)                          Date: 20-Nov-2013
Public Disclosure Copy




                                                                      Page 9 of 9
