CONFORMED COPY
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 6 GM
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated May 10, 1979


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 6 GM
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 10, 1979, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
GAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account established with
funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC
COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and the
remaining part of the first-phase of a long-term road maintenance
program of the Borrower and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and IDA, IDA is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to five
million dollars ($5,000,000) (hereinafter called the IDA Credit);
and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
tha respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom; and
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;
(c) "Development Credit Agrecment" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to


﻿- 3 -
D-velopment Credit Agreements of IDA, dated March 15, 1974, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Development Credit Agreement and all schedules to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; and
(d) "PWD" means the Public Works Department within the
Ministry of Works and Communications of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
Two million sixty-
two thousand        Belgian francs    (BF2,062,000);
two hundred fifty-
seven thousand      Danish kroner    (DK257,000);
Nine hundred ninety-
one thousand        Deutsche marks    (DM991,000);
One million forty-
eight thousand      French francs     (FF1,048,000);
Two thousand three
hundred             Irish pounds      (IrZ2,300);
One hundred twenty-
one million five
hundred ninety-
two thousand        Italian lire      (ItL121,592,000);
Sixty-five
thousand            Luxembourg francs (LF65,000);
Two hundred seventy-
four thousand       Netherlands guilders (Dfl 274,000);
Two hundred fifty-
two thousand
seven hundred       Pounds sterling   (Z252,700).


﻿Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Action Credit may
be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made on> on account of expen-
ditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii)
any developing country which is a member of the International
Development Association and could be the recipient of a Special
Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Adminis-
trator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding fro   time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the currency
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, or in
another currency selected by the Administrator in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, after their
conversion into such currency on the basis of exchange rates
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.05 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency o specified or selected is not freely convertible or
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1989 and
ending November 1, 2028, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in


﻿-6-
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate engineering, planning, training, economic, financial,
administrative and highway transport practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project including the preparation of bidding documents
for the Project, and the setting up of procedures for preparing
statements of expenditures for backlog periodic maintenance of
laterite roads and preparation of such statements, the Borrower
shall cause PWD to employ experts as set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator. Such
experts shall have qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Administrator.
(b)   The Borrower shall employ local counterparts, as set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to the experts to be
employed under the preceding paragraph, from the respective
arrival dates of such experts in the field.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall prepare, by March 1, 1980
or such later date as the Borrower and the Administrator may
agree, furnish to the Administrator for its comments, and there-
after establish, a detailed routine and periodic road maintenance
program including a timetable and specific measurable goals
to permit monitorin'; the program and the improvements in the
performance of the field maintenance units.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) assign


﻿-7-
to the Field Division Engineers of PWD such vehicles and equip-
ment existing in the Ministry of Works and Communications of the
Borrower, together with their drivers and operators, as shall be
necessary for the efficient carrying out of the Project and such
vehicles and equipment as shall be procured under the Project;
and (ii) cause the Chief Executive Engineer to determine equipment
and vehicle needs of PWD's field divisions and rotate, as and when
needed, the mechanized field maintenance units among such field
divisions in order to efficiently carry out the Project.
Sect,on 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents (in draft and final forms)
and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Special Action Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Administrator's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Administrator at regular
intervals all such information as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 8 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Administrator of their
respective obligations under the Special Action Credit Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Special Action
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the roads included
in the Project and its road maintenance equipment to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to
be made promptly, all in accordance with appropriate technical
and economic standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain an account for road
maintenance operations under the cost and performance accounting
system referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement and have
such account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Administrator; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of such account for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other information
concerning such account and the audit thereof as the Administrator
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall enact and bring into
force and effect, by December 31, 1979 or such later date as


﻿- 9 -
the Borrower and the Administrator may agree, and thereafter
maintain and enforce appropriate vehicle load legislation which
shall be based on axle loads.
(b) The Borrower shall take into account the legislation
referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Section in design-
ing the structural strength of its future roads.
Section 4.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall allocate, by
July 1, 1979 or such later date as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion may agree, and thereafter maintain, in a separate category
in the general budgets of the Borrower, funds adequate to cover
the cost of road maintenance operations and, in particular, after
completion of the Project, the full operating cost of a brigade
for periodic road maintenance.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall set up, by December 31,
1979 or such later date as the Borrower and the Association may
agree, and thereafter maintain: (i) a cost and performance
accounting system for road maintenance operations in the PWD's
field divisions; and (ii) an appropriate system for efficient
management and control of the inventory of spare parts acquired
under the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall maintain the planning unit
in the Ministry of Works and Communications to be responsible for
coordinating investment programs between different transport
subsectors, in order to rationalize the capital investments in the
highway subsectors.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan or credit (including the IDA Credit)
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled


﻿- 10 -
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement,
and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that che event specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date August 10, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance and Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance and Trade
The Quadrangle
Banjul
The Republic of the Gambia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFIN                            GV-204 (PRESOF)
The Republic of the Gambia
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
By /s/ Ousman A. Sallah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by the
MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
Amount of the
Special Action             % of
Credit (Expressed        Expenditures
Items              in Dollar Equivalents)     To be Financed
Bulldozer, graders,      1,700,000            100%
wheel loader, water
tank trucks, fuel
tank trucks, dump
trucks (7-tons),
trucks (6-tons),
landover electric
generator, air
compressor, water
pump (6 in.),
water pump (2 in.),
and asphalt sprayer
and their spare
parts
TOTAL      1,700,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall
be adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of, or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of, any country that is not
either (i) one of the Member States, or (ii) a developing country
which is a member of the International Development Association and
could be the recipient of a Special Action Credit, as determined
by the Administrator;


﻿- 14 -
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Special Action Credit and the Administrator may, without in
any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Administrator under the Special Action Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such currency amounts of the
Special Action Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable
opinion, represent the currency amounts which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit in respect of such expenditures.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the first-phase of the Borrower's
long-term road maintenance program and consists of:
(1) Routine maintenance of about 780 km of primary and
secondary roads; and
(2) Periodic maintenance of about 190 km of laterite
roads among the roads mentioned in (1) above.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Administrator as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Administrator
shall reasonably request; the Administrator will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association so as to encourage competition
and to permit bulk procurement consistent with appropriate tech-
nical and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
R.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Administrator shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Administrator's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Administrator of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Admini-
strator, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by
the expert referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said expert and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request. The
Administrator shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Administrator's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Administrator promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Administrator of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Technical Assistance and Staffing
(Section 3.02 (a) and (b) of the
Special Action Credit Agreement)
Approximate
number of
A.   Technical Assistance                               man-months
A technical team consisting of:
(a) 1 highway engineer and team leader;          48
(b) 1 accounting expert;                         24
(c) 1 road foreman;                              24
(d)  1 master mechanic; and                      24
(e) 1 senior mechanic.                           24
B.   Staffing by Local Personnel
Local Perscnnel:                       To Be Assigned To:
Local Counterparts
(a) 1 managerial highway             the team leader
engineer;                     of A (a) above
(b) 1 mechanic;                      the master mechanic
of A (d) above
(c)  1 mechanic;                     the senior mechanic
of A (e) above
(d)  1 accountant and                the accounting
3 accounting                    expert of A (b)
assistants;                     above
(e)  1 engineering assistant         the road foreman
and 3 road superintendents.     of A (c) above


