FILL  COPY                          CIRCULATiNG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. 543a-BD
Appraisal Report of                                                          RiET -URN TO'0
a Population Project                                                     RE.PRTS DESK
'  *  '                                            ~~~~~~~~~~WITP, IN
Bangladesh                                                                   ____ W__K
February 3, 1975
Population and Nutrition Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00         =         Tk 7.83
Tk 1.00        =          US$0.13
Tk 1 million   =          US$127,713
NOTE:  The taka is floating with the pound sterling.  The rate given above
is the floating rate used in the conversion of currency in the report.
MEASURES
1 Crore        =    10 million
1 Acre               0.405 hectare
1 Mlile        =    1.609 kilometers
1 Sq Mi        =    259 hectares
INITIALS AID ACRONYMKS
BIDS            =    Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
BPDU            =    Building Planning and Design TUnit
CIDA           =    Canadian International Development agency
FFWW           =    Female Family Welfare Worker
FWV            =    Family Welfare Visitor
GOB             =    Government of Bangladesh
IDRC           =    International Development Research Center
IRDP           =    Integrated Rural Development Program
ISRT           =    Institute of Statistical Research and Training
LFPV            =    Lady Family Planning Visitor
MCH/FP          =     laternal and Child Health and.Family Planning
MLSW            =    Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
MOE             =    Ministry of Education
MOHPP           =    Ministry of Health and Population Planning
MIB                  Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
MOLGRDC         =    tinistry of Local Government, Rural. Development and
Cooperatives
IOW             =    Ministry of Works
NFPB            =    National Family Planning Board
NORAD           =    Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration
PPD             =    Population Planning Division
PPO             =    Population Program Officer
PPS             =    Health and Population Planning Section of the
Planning Commission
PSI             =    Population Services Incorporated
RHC             =    Rural Health Complex
SIDA            =    Swedish International Development Authority
TCRI            =    Training-cum-Research Institute
TREC            =    Directorate for Training, Research, Evaluation and
Communication
UNFPA           =    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID           =    United States Agency for International Development
VSW            =    Village Social Worker



DEFINITIONS
Acceptors                      =  Persons accepting the practice of contra-
ception
Average Family Size            =  Average number of persons in the family
i.e., surviving children and parents.
Age-Specific Fertility Rates  =  Number of live births per year to 1,000
women in five-year age group during
15-49 years.
Crude Birth Rate               =  Number of live births per year per 1,000
of population.
Crude Death Rate               =  Number of deaths per 1,000 of population.
Dependency Ratio               =  Number of persons of 14 years or under,
plus 65 or over, divided by the population
aged 15 to 64 years. A frequently used
but not very satisfactory measure of the
balance between non-producing and producing
members of society.
Expectation of Life at Birth  =  Average number of years an infant, exposed
to a given set of mortality rates, is
expected to live.
General Fertility Rate         =  Number of live births per year per 1,000
women aged 15-49 years.
Gross Reproduction Rate        =  The average number of daughters a woman will
bear if she experiences a given set of
age-specific birth rates throughout the
reproductive ages, with no allowance for
mortality over this period.
Infant Mortality Rate          =  Annual deaths of infants 0-12 months per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Maternal Mortality Rate         =  Number of deaths as a result of complications
of pregnancy, childbirth and the puer-
perium, per 1,000 live births.
Net Reproduction Rate          =  Same as the gross reproduction rate but
adjusted for mortality of women over their
reproductive years. A net reproduction
rate of 1.0 when reached, indicates that
the country will be able to reach zero
population growth rate after five to six
decades. The population continues to in-
crease after NRR has reached 1, because of
the "above-replacement" daughters already
born before the NRR fell to 1.0.
Rate of Population Growth      =  Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
immigration or emigration.
Rate of Natural Increase        m  Difference between crude birth and crude
death rate - usually expressed as a per-
centage.
Total Fertility Rate           =  The average number of children a woman will
have if she experiences a given set of
age-specific birth rates throughout her
reproductive life. A good index to measure
fertility changes as it is independent of
age and sex distribution.






BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
DEFINITIONS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....................         i-iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ....................*.......   ............  1
A.  Background  ............... .0.0....................... 
B.  The Population Problem ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
II.  GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS ....................    2
A.  Background ....             .............            2
B.  Existing Situation .....3................... ..      3
C.  First Five-Year Plan Proposals      .................  3
D.-  External Assistance ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
III.   THE PROJECT .........................................   5
A.  Objectives and Strategy .....    ....................  5
B.  Summary of Project Composition .................     8
C.  Project Description ..... . . . ........o.oo. .......*.o.*   10
D.  Project Implementation and Administration ......   22
IV.  COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS .....   25
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ........   ........ .......... ..   30
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ......... ................     32
The report is based on the findings of the two missions that visited
Bangladesh in May-June 1973 and November 1973. The May-June mission con-
sisted of Mr. G. B. Baldwin (Chief), Dr. T. I. Kim (Deputy Chief), Miss I.Z.
Husain (rapporteur), Messrs J. Ratcliffe (Bank), I.H. Kang (Bank), B.A. Jenny
(Consultant-Management), G. Louvell (Consultant-Architect), Dr. Raja Rao
(Consultant-UNFPA) and Mr. C.H. Weeks (Consultant-Communication). Dr. K.
Kanagaratnam joined the mission during the last week. Dr. Sam Street,
Country Representative for WHO, participated in the field and in subsequent
discussions in Washington.  The November mission consisted of Miss I.Z. Husain
(Bank), J.E. Lundeberg (Bank) and R.P. Worrall (Consultant-Communication).
The yellow cover draft of the appraisal report was discussed with the Govern-
ment during April 14 to May 1, 1974 by a mission that consisted of Mr. G. B.
Baldwin, Miss I.Z. Husain and Mr. J. E. Lundeberg. Subsequently Mr. Alex
Shaw (Communication Specialist - Bank) visited Bangladesh from July 2-9, 1974
to discuss the details of some components of the project.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Population Problems
2. Organization of the Population Planning Program
3. External Assistance
4. Terms of Reference of the Management Study
5. Availability and Training of Health and Family Planning Manpower
6. Model Family Planning Clinics
7. Functions and Training of Female Family Welfare Workers
8. Information, Education and Communication Program -- General Strategy
9.  Population Program of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives
10.  Population Program of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
11.  Population Program of the Ministry of Agriculture
12.  Population Program of the Ministry of Education
13.  Population Program of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
14.  Family Planning MAotivation Program of the Ministry of Health and
Population Planning
15.  System of Evaluation
16. Evaluation of Pilot Schemes
17. Service Statistics System
18. Research
19. Type, Number and Location of Physical Facilities
20. Project Administration
21. Detailed Cost Estimates of the Project's Physical Facilities
22. Detailed Cost Estimates of the Project's Non-Physical Facilities
23. Implementation, Expenditure and Disbursement Schedules
24- Prolect Financing
25. Incremental Recurring Cost per Year of the Project's Physical Facilities
26. Demographic Impact of the Project
CHARTS
8452  -  Ministry of Health and Family Planning - Existing
Organizational Structure
8951  -  Organizational Structure of the Population Planning Program
9486  -  Proposed Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Health
and Population Planning
8949  -  Existing Training Program for Nursing and Midwifery Personnel
9488  -  Organization Chart for the Project Administration
9096  -  Age-Specific Fertility Rates for Selected Years, 1973-2000
8498  -  Population Growth Rates Under Three Different Assumptions,
1972-73
9412  -  Training Program of the Pilot Schemes
9411  -  Media Inputs and Exhibitlon Points
9406  -  Administration and Supervision of the Pilot Schemes of the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives



-3-
9407  -   Administration and Supervision of the Pilot Schemes of
the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
9408  -   Administration and Supervision of the Pilot Schemes of
the Ministry of Agriculture
9409  -   Organization for Population Program of the Ministry of
Education
9410  -   Organization for Population Program of the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting
9487  -   Agencies, Timing and Methods of Program Evaluation
MAP  10939  -  Bangladesh Population Project Facilities






BASIC DATA
1973
Population as of January (in millions) -74
Area in sq km                                                     141,131
Density per sq km                                                     500
Density per sq km of Arable Land                                      840
Birth Rate per 1,000                                                   47
Death Rate per 1,000                                                    17
Natural Rate of Growth of Population per 1,000                          30
Rate of Growth of Population per 1,000                                 29
Marital General Fertility Rate per 1,000                               240
Total Fertility Rate per Woman                                           6.(
Total Fertile Couples (in millions)                                     13
Life Expectation at Birth - years                                      48
Infant Mlortality Rate per 1,000                                       140
Maternal Mortality Rate per 1,000                                       30
Percentage of Population Rural                                          94
Percentage of Population below 15 years                                 45
GNP Per Capita US$ at 1970 market prices                                72
Labor Force (in millions)                                               26
Unemployment (% of Labor Force)                                         30
Labor Force Engaged in Agriculture (%)                                  78
Adult Literacy Rate (%) (1961)                                          23
Primary School Enrollment (%)                                           56
Percent of Population with Adequate Calorie Intake (1962-64)            54
Percent of Population with Adequate Per Capita Protein
Intake (1962-64)                                                    40
Population Per Physician                                            10,000
Population per Staff Nurse                                         80,000
Doctor-Nurse Ratio                                                     8:1
Administrative                                  Average Population
Units                    Number             in each (in millions)
Division (Region)                4                      18.50
Districts                       19                       3.OF
Sub-divisions                   62                       1.20
Thanas                         413                       0.18
Unions                       4,055                       0.018
Villages                    65,000                       0.0011
1/   The population for 1974 is estimated at about 76 million by the Planning
Commission.






APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPULATION PROJECT IN BANGLADESH
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The report appraises a population project for Bangladesh for which
an IDA Credit of US$15 million equivalent has been proposed. The total
project cost is estimated at US$45.7 million. The main objective of the
project is to assist the Government in translating the broad-based population
policy defined in the First Five-Year Plan (1973-78) into a national pro-
gram. At present the country has a minimal population planning program that
is barely functioning. The Government's first task under the Five-Year
Population Plan is to work out a feasible program, to organize itself for
carrying out this program, to secure financing, and to get the program
moving.
ii.       The implications of a natural population growth rate of 3% per
annum in a country with a thin resource base whose people have a per capita
income of only about US$70 and over one-fourth of whose labor force is chronically
unemployed are serious. Recognizing these problems, the Government in its
First Five-Year Plan (1973-78) stated that no 'civilized measure would be
too drastic to keep the population of Bangladesh on the smaller side of 15
crores (150 million) for sheer ecological viability of the nation.'
iii.      The proposed project is designed to assist the Government (a)
in establishing a health delivery system to meet the existing demand for
family planning services and (b) in developing a comprehensive national popula-
tion program addressed equally to the creation of demand for family planning
and to the delivery of services. For the former, it will provide and train
the health and family planning field workers. For the latter it will (a)
expand the capacity for training health and family planning manpower needed
for building a nation-wide service delivery program, (b) establish a number
of pilot schemes for introducing family life education and motivation activ-
ities in the development programs of five ministries, (c) strengthen the
capacity of the mass media to deal with population topics, and (d) build up
research and evaluation activities to provide the knowledge needed for future
program expansion.
iv.       The project consists of:
(a)  the construction, furnishing and equipment of (i) one
college of nursing for nurse tutor training (ii) eight
schools for training family welfare visitors (a category
of paramedical personnel in Bangladesh), (iii) eight
new thana health complexes with clinical facilities and
a 25-bed maternity ward unit for field training of medical
and paramedical personnel, (iv) 24 union health subcenters
for field training and (v) four model family planning
clinics in medical colleges for the training of medical
students;



(b) training and salary support for 3,700 female family
welfare workers who will deliver maternal and child
health and family planning services through the
home visiting program in rural areas;
(c) the establishment and support of nine education/motivation
pilot schemes in 61 thanas (counties) to integrate
population programs in the development activities of
the five different ministries such as training of
model farmers and cooperative managers, rural women's
functional literacy program, mothers' clubs, agricultural
assistants field visits; labor welfare centers, female
family welfare workers' home visits, a publicity program
through audiovisual vans; a mobile population education
team and a women's vocational training program;
(d) strengthening the mass media activities of the Ministry
of Information and Broadcasting by establishing a
population program cell in Radio Bangladesh, expanding
the capacity of the Department of Films, setting up
a Population Feature Writing Bureau for the Press Infor-
mation Department; and training of public relations
officers in population problem;
(e) initiating curriculum development and teachers' training
for the introduction of population education in the
primary and secondary schools;
(f) conducting seminars on population education for schools
and on population problems for political leaders
and other government officials;
(g) strengthening the institutions responsible for the
evaluation of the program through the establishment
of an Evaluation Unit at the Health and Population
Planning Section (PPS) of the Planning Commission,
supporting the evaluation units of the ministries
responsible for different schemes and establishing
a system of analysis of vital statistics and service
statistics collected by the Ministry of Health and
Population Planning (MOHPP);
(h)  The provision of a management study at the MOHPP; and the
appointment of the population program officers to be
responsible for the pilot schemes in the various ministries,
their study tour abroad and advisory services for them, and
a building utilization study;



- Lit -
Wi) a study on the determinants of reproductive behavior
through the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
(BIDS) in association with the universities, and a study of
the national laws for their pronatality impact; and
(j) support to the private sector and for innovative activities
in the public sector (in an unallocated amount) to be
identified during the life of the project.
The total project cost of US$45.7 million equivalent, with a foreign
e^rhdnge component of 53X, will be financed by an IDA credit of US$15 million
by grants of about US$25.4 million equivalent from six bilateral donors,
ano by a Government contribution of US$5.3 million. All donors would finance
spectfic components of the project (parallel financing), except the Government
cl Australia (joint financing with IDA) and the Swedish International Develop-
ment Authority (SIDA) (joint financing with the Government of Bangladesh).
vt,       IDA disbursements will be based on a percentage of the actual costs
of specified project components. IDA will also disburse the funds of the
donors (except SIDA) who have elected IDA to serve as their disbursing agent
for this project. For this purpose. the establishment of a Trust Fund bv
the concerned donors is being proposed from which IDA would be authorized to
draw. To speed up procurement, the Government will establish a revolving
fund in Takas for payment of import duties, local taxes, cost of consultants
and advisers and contingencies.
vfi.      Overall responsibility for project administration will be borne
by the Population Planning Division (PPD) recently established at the MOHPP
in collaboration with the Health and Population Planning Section (PPS) of
the Planning Commission. The PPD will be responsible for coordinating and
monitoring the execution of project activities. The PPS will be the main
poinc of contact between IDA and the Government on all project matters and
will be responsible for the allocation of funds to internal agencies involved
In the project and for the external evaluation of project activities. To
execute project activities, all participating ministries will establish new
units or posts. The Ministry of Health and Population Planning has created
a Building Planning and Design Unit to be responsible for the construction
of all projects facilities.   Five other participating ministries will create
the new post of population program officer to carry out their newly-defined
population activities.
v4iii     Contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles and parts, and im-
ported building material financed by IDA and the Government of Australia
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accznrdance with IDA procurement guidelines. In the evaluation of bids,
domciitic manufacturers will be awarded a preferential margin of 15% or the
existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower. Contractors for civil



i iv -
works will be prequalified and domestic contractors will be accorded a
preference of 7.5%.
ix.       The project's main contribution will be to help the Government
organize and start its population program. It is difficult with data
available at this time to make any meaningful estimates of the project's
probable demographic impact. However, some crude estimates suggest that the
program's demographic objectives with best possible utilization of existing
resources and continuation of activities generated in the project would avert
only about 23 million births by the end of the century - one-third of the
number required to be averted by that time to achieve the desired reduction
in fertility. The project itself will be responsible for averting directly
only about 1.3 million births. This does not include the indirect contribution
of the project by generating certain long-term program activities. In
addition, the project may result in a significant improvement in overall
maternal and child health care that will contribute indirectly to fertility
regulation, and this is in itself desirable.



APPRAISAL REPORT OF A POPULATION PROJECT - BANGLADESH
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      The project covered by this appraisal report is the first Bank
Group assistance to the population sector in Bangladesh. A separate sector
report contains more detailed background information on the demographic
situation of the country and on the Government's Five-Year Population Plan,
(1973-78).
B. The Population Problem
1.02      The concern for slowing down population growth is based on the
presently bleak, if not desperate, long-run economic and social outlook for
the country. Historically, the precarious balance between population and
resources has been maintained by depressingly large numbers of premature
deaths due to disease, famine and war. The situation is likely to grow
worse fairly rapidly if the present current high rate of population growth
continues. The Planning Commission has estimated a total population of
74 million as of January 1973 and a natural rate of increase of 3% per
annum, resulting from a crude birth rate of 47 per thousand and a death
rate of 17 per thousand. 1/ There is a small net emigration, so that the
growth of population is estimated at about 2.9%.
1.03      About 90% of the population is rural with 80% engaged in agriculture;
these proportions have hardly changed during the last two decades. Per capita
income is estimated at about US$72 per year, among the lowest in the world.
The literacy rate is about 23% of the total population. Unemployment is high
and persistent at over one-fourth of the total labor force. The country's
main natural resource is agricultural land, of which the average farm family
has only 0.45 acres for each of its members, an extremely low ratio. With
national population threatening to more than double, reaching in excess of
160 million within the short span of 23 years, and with no significant amount
of additional land available for cultivation, the prospects for a peasantry
already at the margin of subsistence are grim. (Annex 1) The country is
presently heavily dependent upon imported food supplies. A recent Bank
Economic Report (September, 1974) suggests the attainment of some form of
food grain self-sufficiency within 10-12 years. However, it adds that, in
1/   The February 1974 census, which is being checked for underenumeration,
reported a population of 71.3 million. The 1961 census (without adjust-
ment for underenumeration) reported a population of 50.8 million.
These two figures yield an average exponential population growth rate
of 2.6% per annum. The Planning Commission estimated a population of
76 million for 1974.



-2-
the long run, the gap between demand and supply will emerge once again even
on the optimistic assumption of an increase in agricultural output and a
decline in population growth rates. Thus, the country would be expected
to once again become dependent on imports by the end of the century. A sub-
sistence economy permits little more than a subsistence government budget,
with a huge chronic gap between needs and resources and the prospect of con-
tinuing heavy dependence on external aid even after the present reconstruction
period is over. A high population growth rate will, of course, only widen
the gap between needs and resources.
II. GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
A. Background
2.01      The country's family planning program began with voluntary efforts
in the early 1950s. A nation-wide government program that started in 1960
under the Ministry of Health as a part of the health services made little
headway during its first five years. In 1965 a reorganization took the
family planning program out of the Ministry of Health and established it as
an independent, single-purpose program with its own structure. There was
an East Pakistan Provincial Family Planning Board, in addition to Family
Planning Boards at the district and thana (county) levels. While doctors
played an important part, particularly in sterilization, the program was
one of the few in the world to be organized outside the Ministry of Health.
The Provincial Family Planning Board was made responsible for the national
program with three other supporting organizations that had overall responsi-
bility for the functions indicated in their titles.  These were the Directo-
rate of Training, Research, Evaluation and Communication (called TREC), the
Inspection Directorate (responsible for supervision) and the Postpartum
Directorate. The lady family planning visitors (LFPVs), largely trained
for IUD insertions, were used widely in the program.
2.02      Although the program in the late 1960s achieved some considerable
statistical success in recruiting acceptors, there is at present widespread
dissatisfaction with many features of the earlier program. The main feature
of the earlier program (now discredited) was its extensive reliance on
substantial incentive payments to both the personnel involved in administer-
ing the program and to acceptors. Despite these reported shortcomings, there
is one extremely important legacy left by the earlier program: a large
proportion of the population became aware of what family planning is and what
the possibilities are for limiting fertility. This knowledge seems quite
pervasive, even in the rural areas, and provides an invaluable base on which
to build for the future. Pakistan's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1970-75) was to



-3-
bring certain changes to the program, but implementation was delayed until
after the elections of 1970. Then came the Civil War which resulted in
Bangladesh achieving its independence in December 1971. The war severely
disrupted almDst all aspects of national life, including the family planning
program. (Annex 2)
B. Existing Situation
2.03      The main feature in the population sector since Independence has
been the search for new organizational and administrative structures at
national, district and thana levels. However, following Independence the
Family Planning Board (renamed the National Family Planning Board - NFPB),
along with TREC and the Postpartum and Inspection Directorates, were placed
under the Ministry of Health, which was renamed the Ministry of Health and
Family Planning (MOHFP). An interministerial board (also called the NFPB) was
formed in 1972 for policy-making, program guidance and coordination of
activities with other ministries (Chart 8452). So far, however, the Board
has not met and consequently has given no direction to the program. There
were about 400 separate family planning clinics under the NFPB offering some
kind of family planning services, but the level of activity has been drastic-
ally reduced since the war. This stalemate results from the fact that while
the population policy has changed completely under the First Five-Year Plan,
the institutional set up has remained essentially the same. Recently the
Government has made some decisions on the organizational proposals which
were suggested in the Plan.
C. First Five-Year Plan Proposals
2.04      One of the demographic objectives of the Plan is to reluce the
natural rate of population growth from 3% at present to 2.8% by 1978. It is
envisaged that at the end of the Plan period the crude birth rate will decline
to 43 from the present level of 47 per thousand population with a decline in
the death rate from 17 to 15 per thousand population. The long-run goal is
to reduce the net reproduction rate to 1 in the next 25-30 years in order to
achieve zero populatiOn growth in the next century.
2.05      To achieve the above objectives the Plan suggests that:
(a) The family planning program, largely in the sense of delivery
of services, should be integrated with health services and
the MOHFP should be responsible for it. The MOHFP should
undertake the delivery of basic health and family planning
services through a home visiting scheme in rural areas



- 4 -
services through a home visiting scheme in rural areas
employing about 12,000 teams of workers (male and female)
the MOHFP should plan to establish one rural health
center and three subcenters in all 356 rural thanas
during the Five-Year Plan period for the delivery of
health and family planning services. (At present there
are about 160 rural health centers and 186 subcenters.)
(b) A population planning educational and motivational
effort should be made part of the program of all
ministries that maintain wide public contact, such as
the Ministries of Local Government, Rural Development,
and Cooperatives,Agriculture, Education, Labor and
Social Welfare, and Information and Broadcasting.
(c) All voluntary organizations involved in family planning should
be given adequate encouragement and support.
(d) The Government should consider a strong disincentive after the
second child, legalizing abortion and making it free of cost,
and should undertake social measures for the emancipation of
women.
2.06      For the implementation of the above policies the Plan proposed that
the MOHFP should play an important role in the delivery of services and that
other relevant ministries should develop the capability to contribute to
population planning education and motivation. This multi-sectoral population
program, should be coordinated by a central unit to be named the Population
Planning Division. The Plan is silent on the location of this division.
In the Plan it is suggested that inter-ministerial coordination committees
at all levels of program implementation - national, district and thana -
be formed. Furthermore, the population policy, should be formulated by a
high-level National Population Council (NPC) and consist of ministers of
relevant ministries and other public leaders and chaired by the Prime Minister.
(Annex 2 - Chart 8951R).
2.07      Recently the Government has decided to establish the Population
Planning Division (PPD) proposed above in the Ministry of Health and Family
Planning (now renamed the Ministry of Health and Population - MOHPP). The
PPD has been established as a separate division under the MOHPP with a
full-time secretary as its head. Thus the MOHPP will now have two divisions:
(a) the Health Division (lID), responsible for delivery of integrated healtl
and family planning services and (b) the PPD, responsible for coordinating
and monitoring the population programs of different ministries and agencies
as well as providing technical support to these agencies in programming and
evaluating their population-related activities. It is reported that the
staff and resources of the existing TREC, Inspection Directorate and some from



-5-
the NFPB will be transferred from the Health Division to the PPD. The
expected organizational structure of the MOHPP is given in Annex 2,
Chart 9486.
2s08      An attempt will be made to develop population activities in five
ministries other than the MOHPP. Population program officers and supporting
staff will be appointed in each ministry as part of the project. In addition
to the PPD, the existing Health and Family Planning Division of the Planning
Covmission (now renamed the Health and Population Planning Section - PPS) will
be responsible for external evaluation of all program activities, allocation
of funds to the concerned ministries, determination of the intra-sectoral
priorities and allocation of funds to different agencies based on progress
of the activities and liason with external donors. Among the committees
mentioned in para 2.06, only the Central Coordination Committee at the national
level has been formed by a recent order of the Government (Annex 2). No
decision has yet been taken on the formation of the NPC or other committees.
D. External Assistance
2.09      The Planning Commission has allocated TK 700 million (US$93
million) for the population program during the First Five-Year Plan (1973-
78). This expenditure target is to be financed from the national budget
and from several foreign donors. The UNFPA project, for which an agreement
has been signed for three years, includes US$5.2 million for eight components
that have been worked out in considerable detail, plus US$4.8 million for
two broad components for which details are to be worked out later. So far
the largest bilateral assistance was from the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID), which in 1972 and 1973 made US$6.5 million
available for health facilities, manpower retraining, medical equipment,
and contraceptive supplies. USAID is likely to make another US$8-10 million
directly available to the program over the 1974-77 period. Several private
agencies will also make important financial and technical assistance con-
tributions to the program; these include the Ford Foundation in the field
of research (US$300,000 for two years) and the Pathfinder Fund in postpartum
motivation (US$1.5 million). (Annex 3)  There does not seem to be any over-
lap among donor activities and the present project. In fact, these activities
appear to be complementary.
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
3.01      The project is designed to assist the development of a comprehensive
national fertility-control program. It will expand facilities and staff to
serve the existing demand for family planning services and will launch a wide



-6-
set of activities designed to create additional demand for such services.
The following considerations underlie project development:
(a) A major constraint on the expansion of health and family
planning services is the shortage of intermediate level
health manpower i.e., nurses and family welfare visitors
(FWV - a category of paramedical manpower utilized for health
and family planning). Bangladesh is unique in its adverse
ratio of doctors to nurses, estimated at 8:1. The shortage
of such manpower is mainly the result of a limited physical
capacity for training tutors, nurses and FWVs. The
Government has established 13 new schools for the training
of nurses; but the increased number of nurses is likely
to be absorbed by the hospitals in urban areas. Therefore,
the main reliance in the rural areas will have to be on FWVs
for a long time. The project supplements this national
effort by the construction of one college of nursing for
the training of nurse tutors (who will also teach FWVs) and
eight schools for the basic training of FWVs, who will be
the key staff in the rural health scheme. In addition,
eight thana health complexes with 24 subcenters will provide
field training for FWVs and medical students and four model
family planning clinics in medical colleges will give
practical training to medical students in family planning
methods.
(b) The home visiting program of the team of field workers is the
main source at present for the distribution of pills, condoms
and other methods as well as for other simple health services.
The project provides training and salary support for the
female members of the team who would be mainly responsible
for maternal and child health and family planning services.
(c) The Government's policy of changing social attitudes towards
family size by integrating the population planning program with
the development programs of individual ministries is based on
evidence that family planning programs which are integrated
with other development efforts have a better chance of success.
The project will help the Government integrate family planning
motivation and education with schemes designed to (i) raise
the economic and social status of women and (ii) train village
leaders in rural development programs. The total number of
thanas covered during the project period by different schemes
would be about 61, or 15% of the total 413 thanas. These
thanas have been selected to cover the major administrative,
geographic and socio-economic conditions found in the country.
The schemes dealing with raising the socio-economic status



-7-
- 7 -
of women are new and would be initiated in only a limited
number of villages in selected thanas. The project supports
these schemes because of their possible direct bearing on
reproductive behavior. Schemes dealing with training village
leaders are already in operation; the project will add a
family planning training element in ongoing training programs
for all the villages of the selected thanas.
(d) Films and radios are found to be popular mass media in rural
areas. The project creates the capacity for the production of
family planning films and radio broadcasts - the contents of
which will be guided by the results of action-oriented attitude
research.
(e) Introduction of population education in the primary and
secondary school systems is necessary to create awareness of
population problems among future parents. The project
supports the development of curriculum and teacher-training
for this purpose.
(f) At this stage of program development a strong system of evalua-
tion of all program components is crucial. The project would
support an internal evaluation (by the implementing ministries
and the PPD) as well as an external evaluation by the Health
and Population Planning Section of the Planning Commission.
(g) For the long-term development of the population program, a
study on the determinants of reproductive behavior to assess
the factors influencing the family-size decision is essential.
The project supports these studies. In addition the project
also supports a study of existing laws for their pronatality
impact.
(h) The success of both the program and the project will depend
on viable organizational structures for their implementation,
coupled with a strong political commitment. The project incliides
a management study for the review of the present organization
of the MOHPP.  For implementation of the project in minist-- es
other than the MOHPP, the project will establish the position
of population program officer. The overall coordination,
evaluation and monitoring of project activities will be the
responsibility of the PPD in the MOHPP in collaboration with
the PPS in the Planning Commission.      A seminar on popu-
lation problems for political leaders is included in the
project for creating awareness of the gravity of population
problems. The project also includes various studies and
technical assistance to help reduce construction time and
costs.



B. Summary of Prolect Composition
3.02      The project will consist of the following components:
(a)  Technical assistance and general support for strengthening
the population program organization.
(i)  Obtaining the services of a management firm to
assist the Ministry of Health and Population
Planning in improving its internal organization;
(ii) Conducting a national seminar on population problems
for political leaders; and
(iii) Conducting studies on building utilization.
(b) Constructing, furnishing, equipping and supporting the following
training and service-cum-training facilities for the Ministry
of Health and Population Planning.
(i)  One college of nursing in Dacca to graduate 60 tutors
annually to train nurses and public health nursing staff;
(ii) Eight family welfare visitor training schools to train 60
students annually;
(iii) Eight new thana health complexes with (a) a 25-bed maternity
ward unit, (b) dormitories for 25 trainees, (c) an outpatient
clinic and (d) staff housing to serve as rural field training
centers for medical and paramedical personnel in health
and family planning services;
(iv)  Twenty-four union health subcenters with dormitory capacity
for two trainees for union-level field training (three per
health complex described above); and
(v)  Four model clinics in medical colleges for family planning
training of medical students, and the retraining of 50
medical students annually.
(c)  Training and subsequent employment for four years for
3,700 female family welfare workers as members of male/
female home-visiting teams in rural areas.
(d)  Provision of audiovisual equipment, vehicles and operating
costs for three years for the establishment and support of
nine education/motivation pilot schemes in 61 thanas and general
program support to the designated ministries.



- 9 -
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives:
(i)  A pilot scheme for the use of model farmers and cooperative
managers as change agents for family planning; and
(ii) A pilot scheme for the rural women's functional literacy
program as a means of acceptance of family planning.
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare:
(i)  A pilot scheme for the formation of rural mothers' clubs
for family planning motivation;
(ii) A pilot scheme for the women's vocational training programs
as a means of acceptance of family planning; and
(iii) A pilot scheme for the family planning program for
organized labor.
Ministry of Aqriculture:
(i) A pilot scheme for the use of agricultural assistants
for population education.
Ministry of Education:
(i)  A pilot scheme for the use of a mobile population
education team to hold seminars on population problems
for school teachers to obtain their support in in-
fluencing the community;
(ii)  Curriculum development and teachers' training for the
introduction of population education in the primary and
secondary school curricula; and
(iii) A national seminar on population education.
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting:
(i)  A  pilot scheme for the use of audiovisual vans for
family planning films;
(ii)  Establishing a Population Program Cell for Radio Bangladesh;
(iii) Expansion of the film producing capacity of the Department
of Films for producing family planning films;
(iv)  Setting up a Population Feature Writing Bureau; and
(v)  Training the public relations officer in population
problems.



- 10 -
Ministry of Health and Population Planning:
(i) The pilot scheme for the use of family planning motivation
kits by family welfare workers.
(e) Salary support, operating costs, support for institutions
capable of conducting research studies and evaluation.
(i)  The establishment of an Evaluation Unit at the
Health and Population Planning Section of the Planning
Commission for program evaluation;
(ii) Special evaluation studies of the pilot schemes to be
conducted by the PPD through the concerned ministries;
(iii) A study on the determinants of reproductive
behavior by the Bangladesh Institute of Development
Studies; and
(iv) A study of national laws to assess their pronatality
impact to be conducted by PPD through a special committee.
(f) Support to the Population Planning Division to assist the private
sector in family planning activities and for the development of
innovative activities in the public sector during the life of
the Project.
C. Project Description
Program Organization and Administration
3.03      The Population Planning Division of the MOHPP has been given primary
responsibility for planning, coordinating and supervising the country's
population program. However, it will rely on the Ministry's Health Division
to provide family planning services. While the large Health Division has
been in existence for some time, the PPD has only recently been established
and at present has a limited staff. The organizational structure and the
availability of personnel at the PPD are still under consideration. Avail-
ability of a detailed organizational structure of the PPD acceptable to IDA
and provision for full-time staff and facilities are conditions of credit
effectiveness. The Health Division of the MOHPP is responsible for the
delivery of integrated health and family planning services. There are
unresolved doubts as to the suitability of its structure for efficient delivery
of these services. There are questions with regard to the organization and
personnel in the field, coordination among them, and the line of command
from headquarters. With the establishment of the PPD there is a need to



define the relationship between the two divisions themselves both at the
central and field levels and with other ministries and agencies involved in
the program. A comprehensive management study of the MOUPP, including the
coordination of MOHPP staff with the staff of other ministries at the field
level, will be initiated with the help of consultants by July 31, 1975; the
detailed terms of reference of the study shall be acceptable to IDA (Annex 4)
and the results of the study shall be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1975.
Thereafter the Government shall implement such recommendations within a period
to be agreed upon between the Government and IDA. The whole organizational
structure of the program now being established will be reviewed one year
after credit effectiveness bv the Government and by IDA to determine if any
changes seem desirable to accomplish the purpose of the project.
3.04      For implementation of the program in the individual ministries the
project requires the appointment of a population program officer (PPO) in
each of the five non-health ministries involved in the population program.
The PPOs will be given training abroad for three months. Training will com-
mence with a two-week orientation in Dacca (IDA will provide a consultant to
help design the course), followed by a week's visit to the thanas where the
schemes will eventually be working. The appointment of the PPOs with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA and the making of arrangements
for their training abroad will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.05      The Five-Year Plan proposes the establishment of a high-level
National Population Council (NPC) with the Prime Minister as the Chairman
for policy-making and program guidance. No decision has yet been taken on
its establishment. The establishment of the NPC with substantially the
composition and functions set out in the Plan is also a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.06      A great deal of administrative efficiency results from strong
political commitment. A seminar on population problems for political leaders
is included in the project for the purpose of obtaining political support to
the population planning program. About 150 participants are expected to
participate in a four-day seminar that is to be organized by the Bangladesh
Institute of Development Studies with technical support supplied by the PPD.
Training Facilities for Health and Population Planning Personnel
3.07      College of Nursing:  The present national total of 40 tutors to
handle all training of nurses, FWVs and midwives falls far short of the
requirement. The tutor training program has already started on a modest
scale (20 students per year) using make-shift quarters that are not suitable
for the size of the program needed. The project will replace the existing
facility with a new facility capable of enrolling 60 new nurse-tutor students
per year for a two-year course of training. While the ultimate use of the
building will be as a training college for public health nurses, the present



- 12 -
shortage of nursing teachers is so severe that the primary use of the facility
until 1983 will be to train instructors. After 1983, the major use of the
building will shift to the training of public health nurses. The avail-
ability and need for nursing tutors over the next decade is shown in Annex 5.
Although the college will have a capacity of 120 students, 40 of these are
expected to be in the field at any given time so that the buildings will be
designed for a capacity of 80 students. The component includes construction,
equipment and furniture for teaching and dormitory accommodations for 80
students. The buildings will be located in Dacca on a site at or near an
existing hospital. One sedan and three micro-buses for field training will
also be provided. Construction is scheduled for completion in early 1978.
Special equipment will be provided by UNICEF and technical assistance by WHO.
3.08      Family Welfare Visitor Training Schools:  The earlier separate
family planning program relied on lady family planning visitors (LFPVs) who
were trained for 15 months and were responsible for IUD insertions. This
category is likely to be discontinued now under the integrated program and
the existing LFPVs will be retrained as family welfare visitors (FWVs). (Chart
8949) The FWVs are the medical auxiliaries who provide family planning services
at peripheral health units, rural health complexes and union health sub-
centers. It is also intended that the FWVs provide cotnseling and motivation
services at the centers, perform IUD insertions, screen clients for contra-
indications before dispensing pills, provide follow-up services for clients,
and supervise the female family welfare workers (FFWWs). To perform both
the in-house and area supervisory functions it is planned to staff each thana
health complex with two FWVs (the present staffing pattern provides for only
one). The increased staffing level plus the expansion in a number of health
centers is expected to raise the need for FWVs from the present number of
600 to about 1,500 by 1978 and to 2,500 by 1983 (Annex 5). These demands cannot
be met from the three existing schools (two of which are in make-shift rented
quarters) which have a combined annual output of 50 per year. The project,
therefore, includes the construction, equipping, and furnishing of eight FWVs
training schools at different locations. Each school will provide classroom
and dormitory space for 90 students composed of three classes of 30 each
admitted at six-month intervals. The MOHPP has reduced the present training-
time for FWVs from 27 to 18 months, which will increase the capacity of training
facilities by one-third. The reduction in training time is achieved by making
the training more intensive without sacrificing the quality. The project's
eight schools and a shortened training-time will expand the present annual
output of FWVs from about 50 per year at present to over 400 per year from
1979 onwards. This output would be just adequate to meet the demand of 1,500
nurses in 1978 and 2,500 in 1985. (Annex 5) Before completion of the new
schools the Government should expand FWV training, using four existing regional
Training-cum-Research Institutes (TCRIs) that were functioning for LFPV
training or through comparable facilities. Agreement has been reached during
negotiations that the Government will submit to IDA a program, including a
time schedule for its implementation to: (a) ensure recruitment of required
number of candidates for FWV training, (b) minimize the attrition rate during



13 
training, and (c) ensure that those who complete their training are thereafter
hired and provided adequate incentives to remain in their jobs. Agreement
has been reached further that the Government will carry out a manpower
utilization study by December 1976 to (a) determine what functions are being
performed by FWVs, (b) assess the suitability of training, including curricula,
in terms of intended functions and (c) to recommend any reallocation of func-
tions which may be required. The Government will implement changes in training
and/or functions of the staff in the light of this study in consultation with
IDA according to a timetable acceptable to IDA.
3.09      Field Training Thana Health Complexes:  The project does not aim at
any major extension of the rural health infrastructure. It does, however,
provide construction of a limited number of thana health complexes that can
be used as centers for field training of new health personnel. To this end,
the project includes construction, equipping, and furnishing of 8 new thana
health complexes. Each of these complexes will have four components (a) an
outpatient rural health center, (b) a 25-bed maternity ward unit, (c) a
dormitory for 25 students and (d) staff housing. Components (b) and (c)
make these complexes different from the standard thana health centers the
Government has proposed to construct. These 8 field demonstration complexes
would be located in areas accessible to FWV schools and medical colleges.
One main function of these complexes will be to provide field training
opportunities for medical and paramedical personnel in community medicine
with emphasis on maternal and child health, family planning and pediatric
medicine. A group of about 15 medical students would spend a minimum of two
weeks in these complexes during one of the clinical years. Also, FWV trainees
(10 in each group) would have eight to ten weeks of field practice in these
complexes in order to complete the required number of delivery attendances,
in addition to cases of IUD insertions, before becoming qualified. The
occupancy rate in the existing six-bed centers is low, but with provision
of kitchen facilities, ambulance, and ward attendants the occupancy rate
should increase. It is expected then that the 25-bed maternity ward units
will provide an adequate number of cases for delivery-care training. Agree-
ment has been reached during negotiations that the Government shall take all
necessary action to increase the demand for beds for maternity, gynecological,
sterilization and similar cases and insure the availability of such beds
whenever there is demand for such purposes. An annual total of 180 medical
students and 60 FWVV trainees are expected to go through field training at
each of these field training centers after their completion in 1978. These
centers will also be used for refresher courses for female family welfare
workers whom the MOIPPP is planning to appoint. (See para 3.12.) The numbers
to be trained at the field demonstration centers are given in Annex 5.
3.10      Field Training at Health Subcenters:  For further field training in
rural areas the project will build, equip, and furnish 24 health subcenters
at the union level - three attached to each of the eight thana health complexes
described above. The subcenters will have outpatient clinic facilities plus



- 14 -
housing accommodations for key staff and for two trainees (medical students
and FWVs). It is expected that these subcenters would provide general out-
patient health care including IUD insertions and vasectomies. The existing
186 subcenters are temporarily located in rented premises. The operation
of these 24 new subcenters will provide experience for the later expansion
of the system.
3.11      Model Family Planning Clinics:  No facilities exist at present for
the training of medical students in new contraceptive technology and modern
methods of induced abortion or for clinical research activities to provide
up-to-date material for teaching. The project includes the construction,
equipping, and furnishing of four model family planning clinics at four of
the country's eight medical colleges. The project will also provide two
microbuses for each clinic. The project financing will include the cost
of the above facilities and the operating cost for two years. The clinics
will have facilities for sterilization, abortion, and outpatient contraceptive
services. A ward with 25 beds will be attached to the clinic for abortion and
sterilization cases. The addition of these wards would help to meet the
growing demand for tubectomies as cases now have to wait for a number of
months due to the shortage of beds in the obstetrics and gynecology sections
of the hospitals. It is expected that each of the model clinics could
annually perform about 2,000 male and female sterilizations, 600 to 800
abortions, and would provide two weeks in-service training for 50 qualified
doctors per year in addition to undergraduate training (Annex 6).
Services
3.12      Support for Female Family Welfare Workers:  As mentioned earlier
the MOHPP has decided to extend basic health and family planning services
at the village level throughout the country by appointing two-person teams
of multipurpose workers (one man, and one woman) to be designated as family
welfare workers (FWWs). They would be responsible for inoculations,
maternal and child health and family planning services, sanitation, and
simple health tasks, including record-keeping, in addition to health and
family planning education. The Ministry will begin by trying to put in
place some 12,000 teams by 1978, one for every 6,000 people (the ultimate
objective is one for every 4,000 people). Formerly, there were on the
Government payroll about 10,000 single-purpose health workers (most of them
underemployed malaria eradication and family planning workers); these have
been redesignated and retrained as FWWS for health services in rural areas.
All but 500 of the 12,000 family welfare workers are males. Thus, there
remains a major recruitment and training problem for the female side of the
FWW teams. The provision of MCH/EP education and services will depend almost
exclusively on the Female Family Welfare Worker (FFWW). The project would
provide salaries and training costs for 3,700 FFWWs for four years. The
UNFPA will provide similar support for an additional 1,800 such workers, if
the Government provides 2,000 more, there will be 7,500 FFWWs or two per each



union by the end of the First Five-Year Plan period. It is expected that
by 1981 all the required 12,000 females would be recruited and the number
would increase to 15,000 by 1983, that would mean achieving the Governments
goal of four teams of FWWs per union. Details on the qualifications and
functions of FFWWs will be found in Annex 7. Agreement has been reached
during negotiations on the job description of these FFWWs which should allow
them to spend at least half of their time on family planning motivation and
services. Further agreement has been reached that the program of recruitment
and training of FWVs and the study of manpower utilization mentioned in
para. 3.08 would cover FFWWs as well.
Information, Education, and Motivation Components
3.13      Overview:  The project includes a major effort to launch activities
designed to increase public understanding, in the rural areas, of the country's
population problems and of the personal advantages and possibilities of
fertility regulation. This is being attempted by integrating family planning
education and motivation efforts with the development programs of five dif-
ferent ministries in addition to the MOHPP. This approach will have a dual
impact by conveying the idea of family planning through programs that already
have gained sufficient public confidence and which also encourage social
development conducive to fertility reduction. For example, one of the most
widely-accepted hypotheses is that changes in the traditional status and roles
of women lead to greater interest in fertility control. Four of the nine
pilot schemes are specially designed to further such changes. And since the
men's attitudes to family planning are of great importance, other schemes
are designed to gain their support through various male-oriented development
programs. The pilot schemes are intended to cover a wide geographic area
and a variety of socio-economic demographic and administrative settings.
One thana from each of the 19 districts has been selected for most of the
schemes. Four thanas will implement almost all the pilot schemes; these
will provide experience on the effect of a concentrated and combined operation.
The rest of the thanas will have separate schemes which will make it possible
to evaluate their impact. About 12.6 million or 17% of the total population
will be covered during the life of the project. Details of geographic cover-
age and a list of pilot thanas are given in Annex 8 and are shown on the map.
In addition to the nine pilot schemes the project will include activities
designed to strengthen the capacity of (a) the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting to prepare and disseminate population material through the mass
media, and (b) the Ministry of Education so that it can introduce population
education into the school curriculum. Agreement has been reached during
negotiations that before starting on the implementation of pilot schemes
the Government will send to IDA the training program of personnel, supervision
procedures and information on the population to be reached by such schemes.
The paragraphs that follow describe the pilot schemes and other activities
of each of the participating ministries.
3.14      Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives:
The Ministry's integrated rural development programs (IRDP) depend heavily



- 16 -
on local institutions and leadership, such as elected managers of the village
cooperative societies and enterprising farmers known as model farmers. The
project will make it possible for cooperative managers and model farmers in
19 pilot thanas to receive education in family planning so that they may be
able to talk to organized groups or to arrange for groups to listen to pro-
grams from Radio Bangladesh that would include population and family planning
topics. In addition, the Ministry is planning to experiment with the mem-
bership of women in cooperatives which will not only mobilize small savings
and provide small loans but which will also organize the women's functional
literacy program. In addition to reading and writing, these programs will
include simple training in sewing, poultry farming, and home development,
including family planning and kitchen gardening.   Five women from each
selected village of the same pilot thanas interested in these fields will
be trained at the thana level for the purpose of returning to organize
literacy and training classes in their own villages. Both cooperative
managers and organizers of women's programs will be responsible for the
distribution of contraceptives such as condoms and other methods at sub-
sidized rates. Project support will consist of needed equipment including
radios, incremental recurring costs for three years, including salary support
for a population program officer, an assistant population officer at head-
quarters and supervisory staff at the thana level, advisory services plus
foreign training, and an internal evaluation. (Annex 9)
3.15      Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare:  The Ministry's existing
social services program relies on encouraging the formation of local vol-
untary groups for rendering various types of social services. The project
will support three types of activities in the Ministry. The first is the
formation of mothers' clubs in each of the 760 villages of the 19 pilot thanas.
These clubs will engage in functional literacy activities similar to those
planned by the women's village cooperatives in the IRDP areas. These clubs
will largely reach wives of landless laborers while the wives of those with
landholdings will be reached through the cooperative program described in the
preceding paragraph. The activity will be carried out by the Rural Social
Services Division in the Ministry's Directorate of Social Welfare, which will
add a population program officer to assist the Director. The project will in-
clude necessary additional equipment, incremental recurring costs for three
years, including the salary support for the population program officer and
other staff, foreign training, advisory services and internal evaluation.
The second is the expansion of urban vocational training activities to rural
women through the National Rehabilitation Board, a semi-autonomous affiliate
of the Ministry. These activities have purposes and content similar to the
functional literacy programs of village women's cooperatives and the mothers'
clubs. But they will cover entirely different thanas not reached by the
other two programs and have a more formal employment-oriented approach than
the other two schemes. The Board already has such a scheme in operation at
32 centers and has been extremely successful in giving eight-week training



- 17 -
courses in family planning and engaging the women in gainful economic activity.
The project includes additional equipment and incremental recurring costs
for three years in addition to an internal evaluation of the scheme. The
third type of program relates to a population program for organized labor.
The Ministry operates 18 labor welfare centers in urban areas where large-
scale industries exist. These centers have health clinics with medical
officers but there has not in the past been any educational activity or
services offered in the field of family planning. The project will introduce
such activities at three labor welfare centers by making available to indus-
trial laborers and their families education about family planning and ser-
vices at the clinic, plus a system of home follow-up visits. These new
activities will require the addition of auxiliary medical personnel and
motivators/home visitors at the clinics, plus the appointment of a population
program officer to help the Labor Directorate carrv out the program. The
project will cover necessary additional equipment, incremental recurring costs
for three years including salary support for the population program officer
and other staff, foreign training, advisory services and an internal evalua-
tion. (Annex 10) The UNFPA is providing assistance similar to this component
for three additional labor welfare centers and for the introduction of
population education into the courses conducted at the Industrial Relations
Institute at Tongi.
3.16      Ministry of Agriculture:  The Agricultural Extension Service is
the only Government service that has assistants in all unions. An attempt
will be made to train these agricultural assistants in the 19 pilot thanas
in population and family planning matters. These thanas would be the same
as those from which mothers' clubs will be selected. It is expected that
about 200 of these assistants would then introduce family-size considerations
into the advice they give to the farmers with whom they work. Project support
will provide incremental recurring costs for three years including salary
support for the population program officer and supervisorv personnel at the
regional level, bicycles and motivation kits for assistants, foreign training
and an internal evaluation. In addition, the Agricultural Information Service
will be given funds and equipment to enable it to produce a series of film
slides on population matters both for the Ministry's own use and for other
ministries assisted by the project. (Annex 11)
3.17      Ministry of Education:  The teachers in the villages are considered
to be respected elite who can legitimize development programs. Their assist-
ance in community education on population problems can be valuable. The
project will therefore, provide orientation courses in population problems
for teachers of both primary and secondary schools in 19 pilot thanas through
mobile population education teams. These thanas will be in common with
the scheme using FFWWs. (para 3.24) The project provides for a population
program officer, his study tour abroad, advisory services needed, equipment
and incremental recurring costs for three years and an internal evaluation.
In addition, the project also includes incremental recurring costs for
training of primary and secondary school teachers and curriculum development



- 18 -
for the introduction of population education into primary and secondary
schools. (Annex 12) Agreement has been obtained during negotiations that
population education will systematically be introduced in to the regular
primary and secondary school curricula by January 1979. Furthermore, the
Government will send to IDA, according to the agreed timetable, the proposed
curricula and implementation schedule for the introduction of population
education in various grades.
3.18      Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB):  The Ministry will
conduct one pilot scheme in eight thanas that relates to the use of mobile
audiovisual vans for the showing of films, slides, film-strips, and other
audiovisual materials dealing with population and family planning. The
project will provide eight closed-door and eight open-air cinema vans with
the necessary equipment, an audiovisual engineer and other personnel, in
addition to other recurring expenses for three years. Central responsibility
for this component will rest with the population program officer at head-
quarters; at the thana level, with the Ministry's regular public relations
officer and the Department of Mass Communication at the Ministry. (Annex 13).
3.19      In addition to the pilot scheme, four institution-building com-
ponents for the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (described in later
sections) are included in the project. At present this important Ministry'
gives almost no attention to population matters and has little or no present
capacity to do so. The project will introduce new organizational units into
the Ministry so that it can become an important institutional resource for
disseminating information and creating awareness of national population
problems through the mass media. The creation of awareness by the mass media
is a vital background activity that greatly heightens the effectiveness of
other, more specific information and additional program activities. All
these population activities in various departments of the Ministry will be
coordinated and monitored by the population program officer.
3.2n      The Establishment of a Population Program Cell in Radio Bangladesh
for the production of population programs: Radio was the most effective
communication medium during the War of Independence. The country is relatively
well covered with broadcasting stations and receiving sets. A national sta-
tion in Dacca broadcasts 14-15 hours per (lay; there are also five regional
stations. The project will add personnel and equipment at Dacca and at the
five other stations for the purpose of preparing and airing population
programs. About 1,900 radio sets will be provided to the model farmers and
cooperative managers to test the effectiveness of these programs. Agreement
has been reached during negotiations that (a) appropriate records, satisfactory
to IDA, of national radio time devoted to the population program will be
maintained, and (b) the new staff would be in their posts within three
months of credit effectiveness. If the equipment has not yet arrived at
that time they will make interim use of whatever equipment may be available.



- 19 -
3.21      Strengthening the Ministry's Film Department:  Before Independence
the Films Department made some family planning films but nothing has been
produced since then. At present production is concentrated on newsreels and
major documentaries on national development. There is neither the staff nor
the equipment needed to produce the number of films required to give continuing
support to the project. The project provides necessary equipment and support
for personnel in the Films Department for three years to enable them to
produce at least fourteen short films and one feature-length film in 35 mm
with subsequent reduction to 16 mm. From the date of credit effectiveness,
and pending the arrival of the essential equipment, the Films Department will
put at least one film into production with their existing facilities and
prepare for the production of three more. If, at the end of the first year,
because of technical problems, the Department will not be able to make all
fourteen films, it will contract out to commercial producers who will work
under the supervision of the Department. To keep the projectors provided
under the project supplied with films during the period which will elapse
before the new equipment is installed, the Films Department will contract
the dubbing into Bengali of six existing and suitable family planning films.
3.22      Training of Public Relations Officers:  The Ministry has about 90
public relations officers (posted at the district and sub-divisional level)
in the Department of Mass Communication. These officers will be brought to
Dacca in groups of 15-20 for a two-week orientation in population problems,
policies, programs, and motivation techniques. The project funds will cover
a training officer at the Department of Mass Communication, honoraria for
lectures, travel allowance for three years and office equipment. The
training officer will be responsible for organizing the program.
3.23      Population Feature Writing Bureau:  The Population Feature Writing
Bureau will be established within the Ministry's Press Information Department.
The Bureau will write articles, features, personal interviews on population
subjects for use in newspapers, magazines, radio (support to the radio cell)
and TV. An important purpose of the Bureau will be to serve as a source of
ideas for the production of radio programs, films, etc., elsewhere in the
Ministry; hence its establishment will be a priority task. The project will
include camera, office equipment and incremental recurring costs for three
years for the Bureau. Agreement has been reached during negotiations that the
Bureau will go into full action within eight months of credit effectiveness.
3.24      M1inistry of llealth and Population Planning:  The Female Family Welfare
Workers at the MOHPP are responsible for the delivery of family planning ser-
vices as well as for face-to-face family planning education. (para 3.12)
The MOHPP will provide them with a kit largely for delivery of services; these
kits will be financed by the MOHPP or with WHo support. The project provides
for kits containing tape recorders, slide projectors and flip charts to give
audiovisual support to the family planning talks given by the FFWWs in the
19 pilot thanas. (Annex 14)



- 20 -
Evaluation and Research
3.25      Evaluation:  Evaluation of all program components is crucial at
thls stage of program development. The system of evaluation to be established
would attempt to measure the (a) total program performance in terms of
decline in age specific and total fertility rates and (b) effectiveness of the
program components in terms of their impact on knowledge, attitude and prac-
tice towards family planning. (Annex 15) To measure total program per-
formance, the MOHPP has instituted a system of vital registration as a part
of the couple registration scheme and also of keeping the basic records of
contraceptive acceptors. The Family Welfare Workers are to collect these
data in the field. No system of analysis and feedback of this information
has so far been designed. The project includes services of an expatriate
adviser, salaries of additional manpower and other operating costs for
the assessment of this system, establishment of a system of flow of such
information, analysis of data and feedback of results. These data would
not only help in analyzing the total program performance but also in assessing
the effectiveness of the system of delivery of services as they would contain
acceptor records by method. In addition, special surveys are included in
the project to obtain information on continuation rates of contraceptive
methods and on demographic parameters to supplement the regular reporting
system described above. To measure the effectiveness of individual program
components, the project includes special studies to review the delivery
of family planning services under the integrated plan and also to review
the functions of the FWVs and FFWWs. The evaluation of pilot schemes would
be divided into two parts (a) routine reporting on the progress of the schemes
and special studies and (b) base-line and follow-up surveys for measuring
the knowledge, attitude and practice of family planning. The project includes
additional staff, operating costs for three years and calculating machines
for routine reporting and special studies. In addition, for base-line studies
and follow-up surveys the project provides funds at the PPD and the PPS. The
evaluation of the pilot schemes and the system of service statistics are
described in Annexes 16 and 17.
3.26      Within the Health and Population Planning Section (PPS) there will
be an Evaluation Unit which will have responsibility for conducting follow-up
surveys and other studies for external evaluations (evaluation outside the
implementing ministry). The PPS will have a core staff and funds to contract
out to various universities and research institutes the studies that it
cannot conduct. Regular reporting and base-line surveys would be the respon-
sibility of the implementing ministries who would collect information, collate
it and send it to the PPD for analysis. These ministries would also be
responsible for feedback to the staff and improvements in the operations of
the scheme. The PPD will have an evaluation section (with the existing
resources at MOHPP) and the functions of t;,is section would be to (a) arrange
the base-line surveys for internal evaluation of pilot schemes as well as for
the delivery of services, in addition to a health and family planning manpower
utilization study through its staff, (b) analyze the reports received from



- 21 -
all implementing ministries, including the service statistics from the MOHPP,
and (c) provide feedback on the performance of the program to the concerned
ministries and to the coordination committees at all levels.
3.27      The Evaluation Units of the PPD and the PPS, with the assistance
of an adviser (provided in the project), would also lay down the standard of
performance for the program and its individual components. The evaluation
would attempt to (a) analyze the differential performance of the pilot
schemes, delivery of services and other program activities by geographic
area to determine the impact of social, cultural, economic, political and
administrative factors on the success of the scheme and (b) determine to what
extent the services provided by the program correspond with the wishes of the
community and what type of changes are needed to make the services more accept-
able. A schedule of different studies has been prepared and is given in
Annex 15. Agreement has been reached during negotiations on the schedule of
completion of these studies.
3.28      Research:  A Population Studies Center (PSC) has been established
at the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies. The Ford Foundation and
the Population Council are likely to be heavily involved in the development
of PSC's research program and in assisting the PSC with technical assistance
and equipment to carry out the program to a large extent. However, a study
of the determinants of reproductive behavior could have an important bearing
on the development of a long-term population policy and should get priority.
A Bank consultant is preparing detailed plans for such a study. The study
will be designed to provide information about people's attitudes to family
planning. This will be essential for the information and motivation program
of the project. The project includes technical assistance, equipment and
local costs for conducting such a study in case the expected private source
funds should not be forthcoming in adequate amounts. Annex 18 gives the
details of the study. Agreement has been reached during negotiations that
this study will be completed by June 1978. It is not known what effect, if
any, existing national laws may have on the size of families couples choose
to have. An examination of the effect of national laws on population growth
might reveal desirable or undesirable biases which should be strengthened
or changed. It is therefore recommended that the PPD establish a committee
that will commission a study of the national laws for its impact. The study
might include such topics as tax law, property law (including the law of
inheritance), family law (including the lawful age at marriage), criminal
law (including e.g., law of abortion) and similar subjects. (Annex 18)
Agreement has been reached during negotiations that the terms of reference
of this study will be acceptable to IDA and shall inter alia include con-
sideration of changing the law relating to the minimum age for lawful marriage.
The submission of the terms of the study is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Further, agreement was reached that the recommendations of the study will
be submitted to the NPC by December 31, 1976.



- 22 -
Other Activities
3.29      Government Support for the Private Sector and Innovative Activities:
The role of the Family Planning Association (a voluntary organization) in
the national program is limited at this time. The Government should make an
extended effort to encourage and support voluntary organizations actively
participating in the national program as they have been found to be useful in
other countries. It is impossible to identify in advance all the program
activities that deserve to be taken up during the period of the project. While
some attractive future program ideas may find alternative means of support,
it is far simpler and more appropriate for the project to recognize the nature
of program evolution in this sector and to make specific provision for desirable
flexibility and spontaneity. The project funding therefore includes US$350,000
to support the activities of voluntary organizations and innovative activities
both in the private and public sectors. Agreement has been reached during
negotiations on the establishment within three months of credit effectiveness
of a Subventions Committee within the PPD to approve schemes to be financed
under this component (at least half the funds provided for these activities
under the project will be allocated for the private sector). Furthermore,
agreement has been reached during negotiations that all proposals for the
use of project funds for these two purposes should be agreed upon in advance
with IDA.
D. Prolect Implementation and Administration
Detailed Preparation
3.30      All project activities are scheduled for completion within four
years, e.g., by 1979 (assuming project activities start in 1975), The two
major project activities (the construction program and the pilot schemes)
will both require prompt and energetic attention to preparatory activities
if these components are to be completed within the scheduled four-year period.
The Government faces a major task of identifying construction locations, of
identifying, acquiring, and surveying building sites, of preparing standards,
functional programs and architectural designs for project facilities, of
working out construction program details and methods of controlling its
costs, and of assuring the availability of essential supplies. While the
individual buildings are simple ones, the construction program as a whole
is much larger and more complex than the MOHPP has ever carried out before.
To maintain an effective time and cost control of the program, the BPDU and
its consultants (para 3.36) will prepare a Master Plan for implementation of
the construction part. Agreement has been reached during negotiations that
(a) a Master Plan will be prepared by December 15, 1975, (b) all pilot schemes
will be in launched in the first-half of 1975 and (c) the contents of family
planning training and education of the staff in the pilot schemes and that
of the population to be covered will be sent to IDA for its comments before
initiation of the scheme.



- 23 -
lzcations and Sites
3.31      The project will require that the Government have or acquire
about 45 building sites with suitable locational and technical charac-
teristics. (see Map) The early identification and acquisition of these
sites is essential to the preparation of final designs and to the orderly
and economical "packaging" of construction contracts. At present, the Govern-
ment has supplied a list of locations of all project facilities (see Annex 19),
but no information is available on any individual sites. During negotiations
agreement has been reached on a set of guidelines for the selection of sites.
Agreement was also reached that sites for the college of nursing and the fa-
mily welfare visitors' training schools will be acquired and in the Govern-
ment's possession not later than December 31, 1975, and for all facilities
not later than April 30, 1976. A condition of effectiveness is the submission
to IDA of a description of the proposed sites for the facilities, indicating,
in the case of the nursing college and the FWV training schools, the sites'
boundaries and approximate areas, and in the case of all facilities whether
the sites have been acquired by the Government and if they have not, the steps
already taken, and those proposed to acquire them.
Project Administration
3.32      Project administration will rely primarily on existing agencies
within the Government (Chart 9488); no new entity for project administration
or implementation will be created except for the Building Planning and Design
Unit (BPDU) in the MOHPP. The BPDU, along with the Building Directorate,
will have major responsibility for the implementation of the construction
component of the project. Implementation of all non-construction components
will be the responsibility of the respective ministries which will maintain p
progress reports and conduct internal evaluation. Five participating minis-
tries will appoint population program officers for the purpose (see para 3.35).
The newly established PPD in the M0HPP in collaboration with PPS in the
Planning Commission will have responsibility for supervising, monitoring,
coordinating and evaluating project activities. The PPD will g-iide and review
the activities of different ministries, provide technical assistance for the
internal evaluation and conduct or arrange for training of involved personnel
from other ministries. The PPS will be responsible for the external evalua-
tion of project activities and allocation of funds. The PPS will also be
the central point of contact and reporting between IDA and the Government
on project implementation. (Annex 20)
3.33      For purposes of centralizing project financial responsibility and
preparing applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the credit, a
special project finance officer shall be designated by the Government (Ministry
of Finance) and assigned to the PPD. This officer will have adequate staff
to conduct an independent inspection regarding the use of personnel, equipment
and material in the field before submitting the receipts for final reimburse-
ment. (Annex 20) Appointment of the project's financial officer at the
PPD is a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 24 -
3.34      There are important communication elements in all of the sections
of the project which are being looked after by the six ministries. In order
that these will form part of a communication strategy and that they are
properly evaluated, the PPS will form study groups in at least two key areas
of project activity where the knowledge, understanding and cooperation of
individuals outside the PPS will be important. One working group will be
concerned with information, education, and communication. It will consist
of PPOs from the implementing ministries plus a few other experts (proposed
terms of reference for this group appear in Annex 20). A second group will
be formed to advise on all evaluation and research activities. It will
consist of representatives of universities and research institutions (terms
of reference are in Annex 20). Agreement has been reached during negotiations
on the establishment of these working groups by the PPS by July 1975.
3.35      Population Program Officers:  Among the individual ministries the
proposed population program officers will be responsible for the implement-
ation of specific project components allocated to their respective ministries
except for the Health Division of the MOHPP. In the case of the MOHPP (Health
Division) the Joint Secretary, Family Planning (or equivalent officer) under
the Secretary, will be responsible for the project component under it.
3.36      Construction:  The BPDU is intended to be a small, full-time
technical/expediting group within the MOHPP. Its primary responsibilities
will be to prepare, expedite, and to monitor the construction program, to
maintain project construction accounts, to prepare periodic progress reports,
and to plan the commissioning of each facility. The unit's suggested terms
of reference are in Annex 20 and include the responsibility for the establish-
ment of standards, the preparation of functional programs, and design of the
buildings including construction methods. This standards-setting function
will specifically, among other things, include a review of the Government's
present design to build eight two-story 25-bed thana health centers to see
if an acceptable alternative design (including building materials and methods)
can be devised, which would be better adapted to future replication in the
light of the country's economic circumstances. Preliminary drawings and the
outline of specifications for all project buildings will be furnished to IDA
by September 30, 1975 and these will be subject to IDA's approval. The BPDU
should be headed by a senior civil servant or an experienced architect.
Other staff would include a project architect, a senior engineer, a project
construction accountant, a procurement officer for equipment, furniture, and
supplies, and necessary office staff. The MOIPP has already established the
BPDU by the appointment of its head (a medical professor) and a senior engineer
seconded from the Ministry of Works. The provision of the BPDU with full-
time staff, consultants and facilities acceptable to IDA is a condition of
effectiveness.
3.37      To enable the BPDU to carry out its responsibilities it should
be supported by specialists experienced in project management and architect-
ural design. This assistance can best be supplied by the engagement of a



-25 -
private consulting firm experienced in project management. These project
management consultants 1/ would, in turn, be required to retain the services
of one or more executive architects, with customary engineering and allied
technical support, if they do not have these skills within their own organiza-
tion. (Annex 20) The project management services could be supplied by a
local firm possibly supported by an experienced foreign firm, perhaps under
the kind of joint-venture arrangement that has already been used in the
country. The engagement of the project management consultant acceptable to
IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.38      There are three topics affecting the use and life of program
physical facilities which give cause for concern. These are (a) the weakness
of building maintenance activities, which threatens to shorten building life,
(b) the weakness of procedures for procuring and distributing essential
supplies which, when shortages occur, makes it impossible to offer services
for which buildings are designed, and (c) uncertainty as to the suitability
of building design until this is tested by use. These topics will be the
subject of modest studies at appropriate periods during the project's life
for which provision is made in the project. (Annex 20)
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs
4.01      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
US$45.7 million equivalent. Foreign exchange components represent 53% of
the total cost. Construction will account for nearly 60% of total costs
and the non-construction about 40%, excluding contingencies. Two-thirds
of the non-construction cost would be for support to the pilot education and
motivation programs and for the village-level female family welfare workers.
Contingencies (price escalation and unforeseen) constitute 38% of the total
project costs. The costs by major functional categories (i.e., output) are
given below; Annexes 21 and 22 provide more detailed information.
1/ This firm would not have responsibility for the entire project but only
for construction components in accordance with its terms of reference.



- 26 -
Tk (000)                 US$ (000)              % of   a
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Total -
Program Organization   1,160    1,018    2,178          148       130       278    1.0
Rural Health/F?
Services                21,286        -    21,286   2,717         -      2,717    9.6
Training Health/
FP Manpower
Nursing College        2,891    4,717    7,608        369       602      971
FWV Training
Schemes             15,371   25,799   41,170   1,962    3,293    5,255
Thana Health
Complexes          25,047   41,719   66,766   3,197    5,325    8,522
Health Subeenters    4,803    7,474   12,277          613       954    1,567
Model Clinic           6.699    5,664   12,363        855       723    1,578
Sub-total         54,811   85,373  140,184   6,996   10,897   17,893   62.9
Information and
Education
Ministry of:
Local Govt.,
Rural Development &
Cooperatives       5,390    7,036   12,426        688       899    1,587
Labor & Social
Welfare             7,614    2,586   10,200       972       330    1,302
Agriculture            533       454      987       68        58       126
Education            3,134       546    3,680      400        70       470
Information &
Broadcasting        5,304    9,518   14,822       677    1,216    1,893
Health & Population                                                   u
Planning              -         447      447       -         57        57
Support to Private
Sector and for
Innovative Activi-
ties                   2,742      -          742     350       -         350
Sub-total         24,717   20,587   45,304   3,155    2,630    5,785   20.3
Research                 1,747    1,784    3,531        223       228      451    1.6
Evaluation               7,916    2,405   10,321   1,011          304    1,315    4.6
Contingencies           58,050   77,210  135,260   7,410    9,855   17,265          -
Total            169,687  188,377  358,064  21,660   24,044   45,704  100.0
/a   Excluding contingencies.



- 27 -
4.02      Cost estimate by expenditure categories are summarized below:
Tk (000)                 US$ (000)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   FEC %
I.   CONSTRUCTION
Civil Works:
Labor         21,382       -      21,382    2,729       -      2,729    0
Material       20,364   60,072   80,436    2,599    7.668   10,267   75
Sub-total  41,746   60,072  101,818    5,328    7,668   12,996   59
Furniture &
Equipment       4,454   17,815   22,269       569    2,274    2,843   80
Fees              4.895    1,632    6,527       625       208       833   25
Sub-total I   51,095   79,519  130,614    6,522   10,150   16,672   61
II.  NON-CONSTRUCTION
Vehicles             -     7,326    7,326       -         935       935  100
Special Equipment  313   18,631   18,944          40    2,378    2,418   98
Tech. Assistance    -      5,464    5,464       -         697       697  100
Incremental Re-
current Cost  57,486       227   57,713    7,338         29    7,367    0.4
Support to Private
Sector and
Innovative
Activities      2,743      -       2,743       350      -         350    -
Sub-Total II  60,542   31,648   92,190    7,728    4,039   11,767   34
BASE COST
ESTIMATE        111,637  111,167  222,804   14,250   14,189   28,439   50
III. CONTINGENCIES
Physical - (10%)
Construction   4,839    7,569   12,408        618       966    1,584   61
Non-Construc-
tion        6,837    3,308   10,145        873       422    1,295   33
Sub-total      11,676   10,877   22,553    1,491    1,388    2,879   48
Expected Price
Increases (45.9%)
Construction  41,126   64,327  105,453    5,249    8,211   13,460   61
Non-Construc-
tion        5,248    2,006    7,254        670       256      926   28
Sub-total     46,374 - 66,333  112,707    5,919    8,467   14,386   59
Sub-total III 58,050   77,210  135,260    7,410    9,855   17,265   57
TOTAL EXPECTED COST
OF PROJECT         169,687  188,377  358,064   21,660   24,044   45,704   53



- 28 -
4.03      The cost estimates are based primarily on estimates prepared by
the responsible ministries, checked with experienced representatives of the
private sector and up-dated to July, 1974 mainly on the basis of a report
analyzing prices obtained from the Price Section of the Bangladesh Bureau
of Statistics, and on assumed levelling-out of construction price escala-
tion. Actual escalation was about 50% in 1972, 25% in the first half of
1973, and another 35% in the second half of 1973. Estimated escalation in
the first half of 1974 was 18%, and in the second half 17%. The assumed
escalation factor for the year 1975 is 19%, for 1976 14%, and for 1977 and
1978 12% each. A physical contingency of 10% has been added to the base-
line cos: estimate (July 1974) to cover unforeseen costs during the execution
of the project. The construction cost estimates made allowance for regional
cost difference. The cost estimates for special equipment and vehicles are
based on the catalogue prices for 1974 of major equipment firms. Salary
levels are based on present salary structures and an allowance of 25%
is made for salary adjustments and the need for appointments to be made at
higher levels. The operating cost i.e., vehicle maintenance, printing of
material etc., were estimated by the Government. A cost escalation of 11%
in 1975 and 7.5% per year in 1976 and 1977 is assumed for vehicles, equipment
and operating cost. For salaries the escalation is assumed to be 5.5% for
1975 and 3.5% per year for 1976 to 1978. About 10% is allowed on the
non-construction cost of the project for unforeseen contingencies. The
details of estimation of contingencies are given in Annex 23 with the
expenditure schedules.
Project Financing
4.04      The total project cost (US$45.7 million) is to be financed by an
IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent and US$30.7 million from various
donors and the Government. Tentative commitments received from various donors
are: The Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD - NKr 45.0
million), Federal Republic of Germany - DM 15.0 million, Government of
Australia (GOA) - A$2.0 million, British Overseas Development Ministry (ODM)
- # 1.4 million; Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) - CN$2.0
million, and Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) - SKr 15.0
million. A total of about US$25.4 million is expected to be available from
these donors. The Government's contribution is therefore estimated at US$5.3
million. The Government of Australia has decided to enter into joint finan-
cing arrangements with IDA for its contribution. All other donors except
SIDA would participate in the project on a parallel basis (financing identi-
fiable components) but would like IDA to assist in managing and supervising
the project. SIDA has indicated interest in joint financing arrangements
with the Government. The size of each donor's contribution and preferences
for financing different components are given in Annex 24.



- 29 -
Disbursements
4.05      Funds from the credit, and any other project funds which IDA may
be responsible for disbursing on behalf of other donors, will be disbursed
on the basis of satisfactory evidence of expenditures submitted to IDA by the
project financial officer in the PPD. Disbursements from the IDA credit will
be made as follows: (a) civil works - 60% of total expenditures; (b) equip-
ment, furniture and vehicles - 100% of the CIF cost, or 70% of local expendi-
ture, if locally procured; (c) technical assistance and overseas training -
100% of foreign expenditures; (d) operating costs of the PPD, PPS, MIB, MOHPP
and BIDS - 100% of total expenditures; and (e) support to the private sector
and innovative activities - 100% of total expenditures. The aggregate of the
Australian grant will be apportioned among the same categories of expenditure
as the IDA credit and will be disbursed at the same disbursement percentage
for each such category. The grants of CIDA, NORAD, ODM and the Federal
Republic of Germany will be disbursed at the rate of 100% of the total cost
of components allocated to the respective donor.
4.06      If actual costs exceeds the estimates, the percentages will be ad-
justed to ensure that the donors' funds are spread over the project life and
that the Government will pick up the balance. IDA will assume as much
responsibility for the disbursement of other donors' funds as the latter
may request it to assume. Specific arrangements between IDA and each donor
will be made. Each donor will conclude a separate agreement with the Govern-
ment as a condition of credit effectiveness. The schedule of expected project
expenditures and IDA disbursements, assuming reasonable project performance,
appear in Annex 23.
Incremental Recurring Cost
4.07      The incremental recurring cost of the facilities provided in the
project is estimated at US$1.4 million per annum excluding the recurring
cost of four model clinics. (Annex 25) It constitutes a small portion (6%)
of the total recurring budget of the MOHPP, which amounted to US$35 million
for 1972-73 (excluding the recurring budget of the NFPB, estimated at US$4
million). These costs are expected to form part of the MOHPP budgetary
provisions without undue strain. The project supports operation of the four
model clinics, a new type of facility estimated at US$0.4 million for two
years.
Procurement
4.08      Civil works to be executed under the project will consist of small,
widely-dispersed structures expected to range in cost from less than US$50,000
to US$1.5 million each, with a total of approximately US$13 million. Procure-
ment will be by international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines. Since it is unlikely that any of the civil works contracts will



attract bidders from outside Bangladesh, advertisements will be limited to
local newspapers supplemented by notifications to local embassies. Contractors
will be prequalified. Domestic contractors will be accorded a preference of
7.5%.
4.09      IDA-financed contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles and parts,
and imported building materials estimated to cost about US$14 million will be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
IDA's Guidelines, except for contracts of US$10,000 or less or where com-
patibility with existing items is important, which may apply to vehicles and
some of the equipment with a total estimated cost of approximately US$4.5
million. In the evaluation of bids, domestic manufacturers will be allowed
a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower.
4.10      All procurement will be based on bid packages prepared in consulta-
tion with IDA. Bidding documents for all contracts of US$50,000 or more
will be sent to IDA for review.
Revolving Fund
4.11      To speed up project payments and to encourage the prompt sub-
mission of applications for reimbursement, the Government will establish
a revolving fund, in Takas, from which will be paid approved vouchers
for (a) consultants and advisers, (b) import duties and other expenses
incidental to imports and (c) contingencies (any other expenditure for which
prompt payment is needed). The Government will pay into this fund a sum of
Takas 750,000 (US$99,000) and this fund will be maintained at least at that
level by replenishment each month. The establishment of this fund is a con-
dition of credit effectiveness.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Operational
5.01      This project is the first of its kind in IDA and in Bangladesh
involving several different ministries and agencies in an attempt to make
population planning a part of relevant development activities. Because of
its multisectoral nature and because of the special situation in the country
the project will need close supervision. A major problem is likely to be the
timely implementation of the construction program because of the shortage
of building materials in the country and delays in imports. It will be
necessary to make special arrangements for procurement of materials and con-
tinuous monitoring and follow up by IDA. Separate procurement of building



- 31 -
material for this project and placement of an officer responsible for the
project in the Bank's resident mission in Dacca may help in overcoming some
of the difficulties. The project's functional contributions will be in
the fields of training, the initiation of a fairly ambitious program of pilot
activities dealing with education and motivation, and the organization of a
set of program evaluations and demographic research studies. In particular,
the training of auxiliary health personnel and multipurpose basic health
workers at the project facilities is the core element required for increasing
future coverage of the rural population with family planning services through
the integrated health delivery system.
Demographic
5.02      It is difficult with available data at this time to make any
meaningful estimates of the project's probable demographic impact. However,
with simple methodology the fertility reduction target set in the Five-Year
Plan has been translated into an estimated number of births to be averted
and the number of acceptors required by the end of the century. It is
estimated that about 65 million births need to be averted to achieve the goal
of a two-child family by the end of the century, requiring about 60% of women
within the reproductive ages to accept family planning. The program, if it
maintains the activities generated in the project and makes full use of its
resources, can avert about 23 million births or one-third of the required
number. The project would directly avert only about 1.3 million births. This
does not include the indirect contribution of the project in generating certain
program activities that would continue far beyond its life. In addition, the
project may result in improved maternal and child health which will also con-
tribute indirectly to fertility regulation; this in itself is desirable.
The major requirements for achieving the demographic objectives in the long-
run, assuming the development of a suitable organizational structure and a
strong political commitment, would be (a) a nation-wide extension of demand-
creating activities using, inter alia, experience of the present project,
and (b) intensive coverage of the population by extending Government and
private delivery systems and the variety of methods offered.
5.03      The decline in fertility envisaged in the Plan, if achieved, would
reduce the natural rate of growth of population from 3% at present to less
than 1.5% by the end of the century, eventually achieving the goal of zero
population growth in the middle of the next century. The assumed age specific
fertility rates are shown in Chart 9096. The total population would exceed
130 million around the turn of the century, and would finally stabilize at
about 200 million in the middle of the next century. (Annex 26) These estimates
and the economic implications are referred to in Annex 1.



- 32 -
VI.  AGREEMENUS AND RECO2ThMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) The Government will carry out a comprehensive management
study of the MOHPP, with terms of reference acceptable
to IDA; this study will be completed by December 31, 1975
and the Government shall review the results of such a
study with IDA and implement the recommendation agreed
upon according to a time schedule determined by the
Government and IDA. (para 3.03)
(b) The Government and IDA shall review, one year after credit
effectiveness the administrative and organizational
arrangements affecting the project to determine if any
changes are desirable to accomplish the purpose of the
project. (para 3.03)
(c)  Introduction of population education as a mandatory subject
in the curricula of primary and secondary schools on a
nation-wide basis not later than January 1, 1979. (para 3.17)
(d) The Population Planning Division shall establish a committee
to supervise a study of the effect of national laws on
population growth and to make such recommendations to the
National Population Council for changes in laws as appear
appropriate by December 31, 1976. (para 3.28)
(e) The Government will acquire the land for the college of
nursing and family welfare visitors' training schools by
December 31, 1975 and for the rest of the project's
physical facilities by April 30, 1976. (para 3.31)
6.02      The conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(a) The appointment of population program officers, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA in
the five concerned ministries, and arrangements for
their training abroad. (para 3.04)
(b) The establishment of the National Population Council with
functions and composition described in the country's First
Five-Year Plan. (para 3.05)
(c) Agreement on the terms of reference for the study of
national laws. (para 3.28)



- 33 -
(d)  The adoption of an organizational structure of the Population
Planning Division (PPD) in the MOHPP acceptable to IDA
and provision of full-time staff at the PPD including a
project finance officer. (paras 3.03 and 3.33) -
(e)  Submission to IDA of a description of the proposed sites
for project buildings, indicating in the case, of the college
of nursing and FWV training schools the sites boundaries
and approximate areas, and in the case of all buildings
information on the status of their availability. (para 3.31)
(f)  The provision of full-time staff and facilities at the BPDU
satisfactory to IDA, including the engagement of a project.
management consultant acceptable to IDA. (paras 3.36 and
3.37).
(g)  The conclusion of the arrangements with external donors
participating in project financing satisfactory to IDA.
(para 4.06)
(h)  The establishment of the proposed revolving fund. (para 4.11)
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$15 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Population Problems
I. Past Trends
Demographic
1.        Mortality:  The demographic history of Bangladesh, the eighth
largest country in the world with a population of 74 million, 1/ is a
reminder of the grim reality of Malthusian types of checks on population
growth in operation until recently (Table 1). While historically the natural
rate of growth of population has remained low -- at less than 1% until
1951 -- it was basically due not to low fertility, but to high mortality
(Table 2). At the present time, the natural rate of population growth is
estimated to be 3% -- which is one of the highest in Asia (Table 3). The
generally high death rate which prevailed for much of the first five decades
was periodically pushed higher by epidemic, war and famine. Mortality started
declining after World War II, and by 1969 the death rate was reduced by half,
resulting in a high natural rate of population growth (Table 4). But the
cyclone of 1970 and the War of Independence of 1971 again resulted in large
numbers of deaths whose magnitude is still a pure guess. The estimates of
casualties vary between 230,000 to 500,000 due to the cyclone,and 1.5 to 3.0
million during the war sapping the source of growth by the loss of skilled
manpower. No one knows the impact of the aftermath of the war on mortality,
but it seems that the sharp decline in mortality must have been arrested
at least temporarily in recent years. However, the mortality rate is expected
to decline again as intensive efforts are being made to restore health
services and bring the economic situation back to normal.
2.        Migration:  Apart from the low natural rate of population growth,
emigration during certain periods of demographic history of Bangladesh was
also responsible for reducing the growth rate of population although its
qualitative impact may have had an adverse effect. The net out-migration,
which has continued since 1911 largely due to the depressed economic situation,
was accelerated during the partition of India and Pakistan in the forties and
1/ The Census of February 1974 estimated the population of Bangladesh at
71.3 million. The census results are being checked for possible under-
enumeration. Taking the unadjusted population of the 1961 census at
50.8 million the rate of exponential population growth would be about
2.6% per annum between 1961-74.



A_NNEEX
?age 2
the War oL Independence recently.  About 10 millions persons were reported
to have migrated to India during the war; many have returned, but it is
estimated that no less than 0.5 - 1 million have remained in India. 1/
3.        Fertility:  As for the birth rate, there has not been a substantial
decline in it from the beginning of the century until the early fifties.
During the last two decades total fertility, according to some studies, has
fallen but its impact on the birth rate and hence on the natural rate of
population growth, at best, is indicated to be marginal 2/ (Table 5). The
extent of fertility decline and its impact on birth rate will remain con-
troversial until firm evidence, hopefully through the past census studies
is available. But one can say with certainty that irrespective of the
decline in total fertility its level is still high. Any decline in the
death rate and in the arrest of push factors for out-migratory movement
would set the potential for an unprecedented increase in population growth.
Economic
4.        Overview:  The dismally low standard of living level in Bangladesh
was clearly indicated even before the war. Half the population was on a
starvation diet, nearly 90% had some kind of nutrition deficiency and a vast
majority were ill clad and shelterless. The result was high infant mortality,
an index of malnutrition and a low expectation of life. According to one
estimate in the early sixties, about 26% of all live-born children died
before their first birthday. Those who survived suffered considerable growth
retardation. The low expectation of life at less than 47 years is in sharp
difference with 70 years in Western countries. Necessary data are not avail-
able for a detailed or consistent analysis of the magnitude of economic and
social problems created by population growth in the past. This annex, there-
fore, represents a collection of various pieces of information which
illustrate the problem.
5.        Per Capita Income:  On the basis of gross domestic product (GDP)
data at constant prices for the preceding two decades it was estimated that
the rate of population growth exceeded the rate of GDP growth, resulting
in a decline in per capita GDP at the end of the fifties. During the next
decade although the GDP was reported to have increased at double the rate
as the previous decade, no less than 70% of the increase was offset by an
acceleration in the rate of population growth during this period.
1/   The description is based on an unpublished paper on "Bangladesh:  Pop-
ulation Projections, 1961-2000", by Monnawar Hossain, IBRD, 1972.
2/   A decline in the total fertility rate is not always associated with a
corresponding decline in the birth rate because the latter depends not
only on fertility but on age and sex structure and marital patterns as
well.



ANNEX I
Page 3
6.        Food Consumption:  The possibility of a stationary or declining
standard of living during the last two decades is also indicated by the
decline in consumption of major food items between 1960-61 and 1969-70. The
per capita consumption of rice declined from 1.04 lbs per person per day
in 1960-61 to 0.96 per lbs per person per day in 1969-70. "It would be
unthinkable that the average living standards could rise without an increase
in per capita consumption of rice unless, of course, income distribution takes
a very sharp unfavorable turn. This is because at the present level of
average consumption, the income elasticity of demand for rice has been found
rather high." 1/
Education
7.        The percentage of illiteracy increased from 78.9% to 82.4% during
1951-61 even though enrollment in primary schools more than doubled. This
apparent paradox can largely be explained by the high rate of growth of
population and the high rate of school drop-outs, particularly of the girls
before acquiring literacy. Only 58% of the children of primary school
age are in schools; only 17% of 11-15 years are enrolled in the secondary
schools and about 0.1% of the population is educated to graduate or post-
graduate levels.
Land Availability
8.        A Land and Water Resource Sector Study by the Bank summarizes the
situation as follows: "The average land-owning villager possesses only 1.5
acres. He rents another acre from the well-to-do villagers and therefore
cultivates 2.5 acres. This area is usually fragmented into ten or more
plots, some of which may be a mile or more away from the homestead. He
owns one scrawny cow, used for ploughing. Most of the family resources is
the value of the rice kept for consumption. For festivals, marriages and
other social occasions he borrows from relatives, or failing that, from
moneylenders.  Since he lives from hand to mouth, he is just able to keep
up with the interest payments and hardly ever clears the principal. The
occasional bad year puts him even deeper into debt.  The life of the land-
less laborers in the villages is even more grim.  It is estimated that one-
fifth of the villagers are landless.  Their huts are of much poorer quality
and smaller than those of the landowners; the roofs are usually made of rice
straw which do not quite keep out monsoon rain. These villagers are at
the mercy of the landowners and are often evicted after a bad harvest." 2/
Unemployment
9.        [Jnemployment and underemployment are widespread in Bangladesh to-
day. While no reliable estimates are available, it is frequently suggested
1/   Kahn, A.R. - The Economy of Bangladesh, MacMillan, 1972.
2/   IBRD - Land and Water Resources Sector Study - Volume I.



AMNEXX
Page 4
that on the average up to 30 percent of the available labor is not used,
although much of this is concealed by worksharing and underemployment.
During the last decade unemployment and underemployment in Bangladesh
seems to have increased. The labor force is estimated to have increased
from 18.9 million in 1961 to 25.2 million in 1973. On the assumption of
sectoral distribution as shown in the last survey of 1967-68 it can be
concluded that about 90% of the 7.3 million increase in the labor force (or
6.5 million) was absorbed in the rural areas. Further, about 30% of this
absorption must have been in non-agricultural occupations where there is
little sign of increase in meaningful employment.
II. Future Outlook
Population Projections
10.       Two sets of population projections have been made to indicate
the most likely range within which the population level is expected to lie.
One set of projections would indicate the demographic impact of achieving
the objectives as laid down in the First Five-Year Plan (1973-78) of
reducing the birth rate to 43 in 1978 from 47 in 1973 with a long-term
goal of reaching a net reproduction rate of 1 (total fertility of 2.2 under
given mortality conditions) by the end of the century. The second set of
projections assumes a more modest goal of fertility decline so that the
total fertility is reduced to 3.4 in the year 2000. Another set of projec-
tions illustrates what would happen without an effective nationwide family
planning program. It is assumed that fertility would not remain constant
but would decline, though at a very slow rate, in response to some socio-
economic development during the next three decades.
11.       The results of these sets of assumptions are given in Table 6 and
shown in Chart 8498. The Bank's recent Economic Report (September 1974) uses
the second set of estimates for analyzing the impact of population growth on
economic development. These estimates and analysis are used here to show
the implications of population growth on basic economic variables.
Food Supply
12.       The Economic Report estimating the food requirements based on the
set of population projections mentioned above concludes that although the
projected growth in production implies the attainment of some form of food-
grain self-sufficiency, within 10-12 years, in the longer run the gap between
demand and supply will emerge once again. This is so even though demand
projections are somewhat optimistic (in that they imply a significant decline
in population growth rates) and the production projections imply levels of
implementation and efficiency never achieved in Bangladesh. The clear implica-
tion is that the substantial increases in production which might be achieved
in the seventies and eighties will only buy Bangladesh a little more time to
bring its rate of population growth under control.



ANNEX I
Page 5
Availability of Arable Land
13.       The density of population is likely to almost triple between now
and the end of the century in spite of a decline in population growth rate
assumed under the second set of projections. Further, in spite of rapid
urbanization, the availability of arable land per rural family would decline
from 2.3 acres at present to 1.8 acres in 1993.
Urbanization
14.       Assuming an increase in the percentage of urban population from
6% at present to 22% in 1993, the urban population would increase 15 times
at a minimum from over four million at present to about 25 million by 1993
an increase of 20 million population or a minimum of over three million
families. With the present situation of overcrowding in the poor dwellings
in urban areas, absorption of numbers of this magnitude by cities in the
future (particularly Dacca where 40% of the urban population resides) is
unthinkable. The Economic Report estimates that the capital cost for housing
and public services of minimal urban accommodation for 3 million additional
families would be about Tk. 4.8 billion assuming Tk. 15,000 to be the urbani-
zation cost per family. This would amount to over 3.5% of the GNP assuming
a growth rate of 5% in GNP over this period.
Unemployment
15.       The First Five-Year Plan assumes a decline in unemployment from
30% at present to 25% in 1978 with a labor force of 29.4 million. The labor
force, based on the medium population estimates, is estimated to increase
from 26.2 million in 1973 to 48 million in 1993 or an increase of about 22
million during the next two decades. Out of which about 75% is estimated to
be in the rural areas in 1993 of which 42% would be absorbed in agriculture
and the rest in non-agricultural occupations. With pressure on arable land
the possibility of large-scale absorption of labor force in the agricultural
sector is limited. The Economic Report recognizes that long-term projections
of demand for agricultural labor are uncertain. It states: "Nevertheless
from what evidence is available, it is difficult to avoid the rough judgment
that the rate at which additional labor can be efficiently utilized in
Bangladesh agriculture must be expected to decline within the next decade
or so, reaching zero by the end of the century. Substantial increase in
non-agriculture employment also seems to be difficult because of two reasons.
First the dependence of non-agricultural employment on agricultural develop-
ment. Second the present underemployment in the service sector that constitutes
a large part of non-agricultural employment. However, Bangladesh will have
to live with staggering problems of unemployment and underemployment for the
next two decades as a reduction in fertility even during the next five years
is not going to reduce supply of labor considerably." The implications of
such analyses are clear that with such a slow decline in fertility the unemploy-
ment problems would remain well beyond the present century.



AiNNEX 1
Page 6
Per Capita Income
16.       No perspective plan has so far been made to estimate the long-
term increases in per capita GDP. However, the plan assumes an increase
of 5.5% in GDP (at 1972-73 prices) during 1972-73 and 1977-78. The per
capita income is expected to increase by about 2.5% per annum -- an increase
from Tk. 580 in 1972-73 to Tk. 760 in 1977-78. However, in the long-run
any failure to reduce the rate of population growth would mean that the goal
of doubling the per capita income in the shortest possible time would recede
further. As the Economic Report observes, if Bangladesh succeeded in
improving significantly on the past and achieved a growth rate of GDP of 4%
per annum over the next thirty years, it would mean only a per capita income
of $1,100 at the end of the period with the given decline in population growth rate.
Dependency Burden
17.       About 45% of the population at present is under fifteen years
of age. This proportion would decline to less than 37 by 1993 with the
assumed decline in fertility. Obviously the impact on savings and investments
of such a decline would not be substantial in terms of requirements.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 1
Population Estimates, 1961-73
Population Estimates            Derived Rates of Growth
Year                       (millions)                   (percent per annum)
1961                        53-h
1962                        55.0                               3.9
1963                         56.6                              2.9
1964                         58.2                              2.8
1965                        59.9                               2.9
1966                         61.7                              3.0
1967                        63.5                               2.9
1968                         65.3                              2.8
1969                         67.2                              2.9
1970                         69.2                              2.9
1971                           -                                _
1972                           -  3/
1973                         74.0 -                            2.9
1/  As of the first day of January each year except for the 1961 census
which refers to February.
2/ The 1961 census estimates are adjusted figures for underenumeration.
The census had given a population count of 50.8 million. It is agreed
by demographers that there was an undercount of 5% to 9%. The IERD
estimate indicated a population of 55.3 million in 1961.
3/ The February 1974 census preliminary results indicate a population of
71.3 million. The results are being checked for underenumeration. The
calculated exponential rate of population growth based on the 1961 census
(unadjusted) population is 2.6% per annum. No data were available for
1971 and 1972.
SOURCE: Planning Commission's estimates - The basis of estimates is not yet
known but the underlying rate of growth of population is shown in
the right-hand column.



ANNEX 1
Page L
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 2
Population Growth, 1911-61
Rate of 1/
Population      Growth of    Birth Rate            Death Rate
Size         Population  per thousand         per thousand
(mallions)   (% per annum)
1911              32.2
1921              33.9             0.5            57.8                52.5
1931              35.8             0.6            58.2                52.8
1941              38.8             0.8            55.0                47.4
1951              42.6             1.0            47.8                38.2
1961              53.4             2.2            50.2                28.4
1/  This differs from the rate of national increase (CBR-CDR) as it includes
migration.
SOURCE: Estimates by Harvard University Center of Population Studies.



ANNEX 
Page 9
BANGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 3
Demographic Rates for Selected Asian Countries
Crude      Crude                  Total
Birth      Death      Natural     Fertility
Country           Year          Rate       Rate 1/   Increase      Rate 2/
Ceylon            1970           29.4       7.5         2.2        5.5
Hong Kong         1971           19.0       5.0         1.4         5.2
India             1968           42.8      16.7         2.6         5.4
Indonesia         1968           48.3      19.4         2.9         6.1
Japan             1971           19.2       6.6         1.2         2.0
Korea             1968           36.6      11.0          2.6        6.0
Philippines       1968           44.7      12.0         3.3         6.6
Singapore         1971           22.8       5.4         1.7        5.5
Taiwan            1970           28.1       5.1          2.3        5.8
Thailand          1968           42.8      l0.h          3.2        6.0
Bangladesh        1973           47.0      17.0          3.0        6.3
Sources:
1/  United Nations, 1971 Demographic Yearbook, New York, 1970
p. 126, except for Bangladesh - see Table 4.
2/ For Bangladesh:  Lincoln C. Chen (ed), Disaster in Bangladesh,
lIew York, 1973, p. 21. All other countries: Lee Jay Cho,
Estimated Refined Measures of Fertility of all Major Countries
of the World. Demography, 1964.



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 4
Summarof Demographi Parameters 1961-73
DS        PGE (1)                   CRL (3)                   PC
Rates                    1961      1962-65       1966-67      1967-68       1968-69    1973
Crude Birth Rate          47        44-53            47           45            47       47
Crude Death Rate           -        16-20           15            17            15       17
Natural Increase            -      2.8-3.3            3.2          2.8           3.2      3.0
Total Fertility Rate        7.3    6.3-7.4            6.6          6.3           6.3      -
Infant Mortality           -            -            -             -            -       140
Expectation of Life
at Birth*               46.4       47.5           49.0          49.5         5o.o       46.8
DS - Demographic Survey of East Pakistan, 1961-62.
PGE - Population Growth Estimates - Three different estimates were provided by the
Survey - the range of variation is indicated. The higher limit is supposed
to be biased upwards and the lower limit downward.
CRL - Cholera Research Laboratory, estimates based on a scheme of complete vital
registration in Matlab Thana.
PC - Planning Commissions estimate.
* IBRD estimates.
SOURCE: Lincoln C. Chen (ed.), Disaster in Bangladesh, New York, 1973, p. 21.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
BANGIADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 5
Estimates of Age Specific Birth Rates
Cholera Research
Impact Survey                           Laboratory
1960-1962       -1963-1965         1966-1968            1967-1969
10-14               36                34               36                   11
15-19              283               265              254                  224
20-24              333               337              299                  332
25-29              330               306              255                  308
30-34              270               247              197                  226
35-39              148               141              123                  129
40-44               75                60               39                   45
45-49               -                 -                 4                   16
Total
Fertility         7.38              6.95             6.04                 6.46
Source: Impact Survey 1969. Data obtained from Johns Hopkins University and Cholera
Research Laboratory.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
BANGLADESH
Population Projections, 1973-2000
Table 6
Natural
Year           Total Population              Birth Rate            Death Rate           Rate of Growth
High       Mid      Low       High   Mid   Low   High    Mid    Low    High    Mid       Low
1973        75,106    75,106    75,106    47.0   47.0  47.0  17.0  17.0  17.0   3.00    3.00    3.00
1974        77,397    77,414    77,414    47.1  47.5  47.5  17.0  17.0   7.0    3.01    3.05    3.05
1975        79,776    79,808    79,817    47.1  47.1  47.3  16.7  16.7  16.7   3.04    3.04    3.06
1976        82,254    82,267    82,284    47.1  46.6  46.6  16.4  16.3  16.4   3.08    3.03    3.03
1977        84,838    84,796    84,776    47.0  46.1  45.2  16.0  15.9  15.8    3.11    3.03    2.94
1978        87,530    87,397    87,240    46.9  45.5  43.1  15.5  15.4  15.2   3.14    3.02    2.79
1983       102,530   101,354    98,509    44.9  41.9  33.0  13.3  13.0   12.1   3.16    2.89    2.10
1988       119,774   116,148   108,518    41.5  36.0  27.8  11.1  10.7  10.1   3.04    2.53    1.77
1993       139,248   130,956   117,844    39.3  32.0   24.0   9.3    8.9    8.7   3.00    2.31    1.54
1998       161,604   146,561   127,030    37.9  30.0  22.6   8.3    8.1    8.1   2.97    2.20    1.45
2003       187,348   163,474   136,017    36.8  29.7  20.4    7.4    7.4    7.6   2.94    2.22    1.28
Source:  Population Projections by IBRD.
Computer Model: U. S. Bureau of Census 'Future' model is used for the projection. Life table functions
are taken from Coale and Demeny - Regional Model Life Tables and Stable Populations -
Model West was used for Bangladesh.
Assumptions:
Fertility - High Estimates - Total fertility declines from 6.4 in 1973 to 3.7 in 2003.
Mid Estimates  - Total fertility declines from 6.4 in 1973 to 3.5 in 2003.
Low Estimates - Total fertility declines from 6.14 in 1973 to 2.2 in 2003.
Mortality - Expectation of life at birth increases by 0.5 years per year during 1973-76,
0.6 years during 1976-93 and 0.4 years per year during 1973-2003 - same in all estimates.
Migration - Nil in all estimates.



BANGLADESH
Population Growth Rates Under Three Different Assumptions 1973 - 2003
Low Estimate: Achievement of the Five-Year Plan objective of NRR of 1 by 2000.
-         - _  Medium Estimate: With moderate population program achievements.
.            High Estimate: Without the population program.
.....    .t.
3.0                                                              ......................   2.9
2.6
2.2 -                       \                                                       -  -_ 2.2
W\
1.8_                                                                                                   _
1.4__
1.3
1.0
01                                                  I              I                     I
1973          1978          1983           1988          1993           1998          2003
YEARS
World Bank-8498



.LNTN-EX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Organization of the Family Planning Program
A. Historical Background
1.        The country's family planning program started with voluntary
efforts in the early 1950s when Bangladesh was a part of Pakistan. A
nation-wide government program that started in 1960 under the Ministry of
Health as a part of health services made little headway during its first
five years. In 1965 a reorganization took the family planning program
out of the Ministry of Health and established it as an independent, single-
purpose program with its own structure. There was an East Pakistan Provin-
cial Family Planning Board, in addition to Family Planning Boards at the
districts and thanas (counties). While doctors played an important part,
particularly in sterilization, the program was one of the few in the world
to be organized outside the Ministry of Health. Another feature of the system
was the use of single-purpose female workers, known as lady family planning
visitors (LFPVs) who were trained to insert IUDs and who played a prominent
role in the Pakistani program, as did male sterilization. Use of other
methods such as pills and condoms was insignificant. The Pakistani program
also made use of part-time teams of village-level motivators, normally
consisting of a local man and a local woman.
2.        During the 1960s, several important institutional developments
occurred which had lasting effects on the program, e.g., the establishment
of the University of California Health Education Project and the Sweden-
Pakistani Family Welfare Project. Three training-cum-research institutes
(TCRIs) were established to handle the training of family planning personnel.
By 1970, these scattered administrative units formed the Directorate for
Training, Research, Evaluation and Communication (called TREC), which had
overall responsibility for the functions indicated in its title and which
had particular success in developing a capacity for designing and producing
educational materials. A Postpartum Directorate was formed to be responsible
for developing postpartum family planning services in a modest number of
urban hospitals. An Inspection Directorate with primary responsibility for
supervision of the program was also established. These three Directorates
remain in existence today and their future role and administrative organiza-
tion are part of the problem of reconstituting a program that had, for all
intents and purposes, come to a halt pending such restructuring.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        Although the program of the late 1960s achieved some considerable
statistical success in recruiting acceptors (Table 1), there is at present
widespread dissatisfaction with many features of the earlier program. A
main feature of the pre-independence program, now abolished, was its
extensive reliance on substantial incentive payments to both the personnel
involved in administering the program and to acceptors. It is now widely
believed that the heavy reliance on incentive payments was an important
source of financial corruption. It also led to inflated statistics of
acceptors and lack of concern for the age characteristics of those who became
acceptors, with the result that a large proportion was believed to have been
older men and women whose reproductive years were almost past. Despite these
shortcomings, there is one ex-tremely important legacy left by the earlier
program: a high proportion of the population became aware of what family
planning is and of the possibilities for limiting fertility. This knowledge
seems quite pervasive, even in the rural areas, and provides an invaluable
base on which to build for the future. Pakistan's Fourth Five-Year Plan
(1970-75) was to bring certain changes to the program. Field services were
to be brought to an intensive level through the appointment of full-time
field workers. The approach started on a pilot basis in Tangail District in
1969. The Fourth Plan was delayed until after the election of 1970. Then
came the Civil War of 1971 which resulted in Bangladesh achieving its
independence in December, 1972. The war severely disrupted almost all
aspects of national life, including the family planning program.
B. Existing Situation
4.        The main feature in the population sector since Independence
has been the search for new organizational and administrative structures
at national, district and thana levels. The past year and a half or so
has therefore been a period of hiatus during which the Government has been
re-thinking what it ought to be doing in order to slow down population
growth and what kind of organization ought to be set up to formulate and
carry out a new program. However, following Independence the Family Planning
Board (renamed the National Family Planning Board - NFPB) along with TREC
and the Postpartum and Inspection Directorates were placed under the Ministry
of Health, which was renamed the Ministry of Health and Family Planning
(MOHFP). An interministerial board (also called NFPB) was formed in 1972
for policy-making, program guidance and coordination of activities with
other ministries (Chart 8452). So far, however, the Board has not met and
consequently has given no direction to the program. There are still many
clinics (about 400) offering some kind of family planning services, but the
level of activity has been drastically reduced since the war (Table 2).
Therefore, a considerable staff still on the family planning budget is not
contributing significantly to the national family planning program.
5.        The MDHFP proposed to extend basic health and family planning
services at the village level throughout the country by appointing two-
person teams of multipurpose workers (one man and one woman) to be designated
family welfare workers. They would be responsible for inoculations, maternal



4NNEX 2
Page 3
and child health and family planning services, sanitation, and other simple
health tasks, including record-keeping and health and family planning
education. The Ministry will begin by trying to put in place some 12,000
teams by 1978, one for every 6,000 persons (the ultimate objective is one
for every 4,000). There were on the Government payroll about 10,000 single-
purpose health workers (most of them underemployed malaria eradication and
family planning workers); these have now been redesignated and retrained as
family welfare workers for health services in rural areas. The standard
pattern of rural health services in Bangladesh is comprised of a health.
complex covering an average population of about 180,000 to 200,000 in a thana.
A "complex" consists of (a) a rural health center (RHC) with outpatient
facilities and a dispensary plus (b) an inpatient unit with six hospital beds
and (c) outpatient health subcenters, responsible to the RHC at the union
level (each thana consists of about 8 to 10 unions). The long-term goal is
to have one subcenter in each union and 100-bed hospital in each thana. But
the first plan envisages one rural health complex (with a 25-bed maternity
ward unit) and three subcenters at the union level instead of 10. The plan,
therefore, calls for the construction of (i) 196 rural health complexes to
complete the coverage of all 356 rural thanas (150 thanas already have complexes,
but with a six-bed ward, and 10 are under construction) (ii) over 1,000 health
subcenters, and (iii) 25-bed maternity ward unit at each of the RHCs in each
of the 356 thanas.
C. First Five-Year Plan Proposals
6.        The population program for the next five years as outlined in
the Five-Year Plan (1973-78) suggests various bold and unconventional
approaches. The Plan states that the first requisite of a successful pro-
gram is the realization of the gravity of population problems at all levels
of political leadership and the total commitment to its solution. The
first task, it adds, is therefore to launch a major educational and motiva-
tional campaign to bring home to the public the seriousness of the country's
population problem. Furthermore, it suggests that (a) all ministries which
maintain regular public contact (and specifically the Ministries of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives, Agriculture, Education, Labor
and Social Welfare, and Information and Broadcasting) should be required
to undertake family planning education and motivation programs of their
own, (b) all voluntary organizations involved in family planning programs
or social work must be given adequate encouragement and support, (c) the
Government should consider imposing increasingly strong disincentives against
additional children after the second child, and (e) the Government should
create a climate where the possibility of more drastic measures such as
compulsory sterilization of the spouse after the second child, legalization
of abortion and making it available free of cost, as well as social measures
for the emancipation of women, etc., may be considered.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
7.        A major problem in launching the national population planning
program has been the design of an acceptable, workable organizational
structure. The Five-Year Plan provides that while the Ministry of Health
and Family Planning will, of course, play a central role in the family planning
program (largely concerned with the delivery of services) the success of
the population program in the broader sense (changing the social attitudes
towards family size) would depend on the cooperative effort of other con-
cerned ministries. These ministries will therefore have to strengthen their
capability in order to effectively play their new roles. Their activities
will, of course, need coordination within a central strategy and program.
The Plan proposes the creation of a Population Planning Division (which
would be headed by a Secretary) but it does not state where this new division
would be located.
8.        A Population Planning Division will need more authority than can
be conferred on it by any decision, however sound, on its location within
the Government. The Division will need support and endorsement of its policy
proposals from the policy-making level of Government and it will need
support for its administrative coordinating role from senior officers in
the line ministries involved in population activities. The Five-Year Plan
proposes to deal with the first of these two problems by establishing a
National Population Council. This will be chaired by the Prime Minister
and the Minister of Health and Family Planning will serve as Vice Chairman;
other members will include the ministers of ministries with population
programs, the Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission (the Prime Minister
is the Commission's ex-officio Chairman), the Planning Commission member
responsible for population matters, representatives of the political opposi-
tion in Parliament, and representatives of the press. The Secretary of the
proposed Population Planning Division would serve as Secretary of the Council.
The second of the two organizational problems, that of administrative
coordination, would be dealt with by creating a Central Coordination Committee
consisting mostly of the permanent secretaries of the executing ministries
(it would be chaired by the Minister of Health and Family Planning and the
Secretary of the New Population Planning Division would serve as the Vice
Chairman). However, it still leaves the problem of coordination of activities
of different ministries in the field for which the plan proposes coordination
committees at the district and thana levels. These coordination committees
would consist of field officers of ministries involved in population programs
and would be chaired by the Chairmen of the (new) District and Thana Boards
- elected bodies for the coordination of all development programs. The
proposed legal coordination committees would not be responsible directly to
the Central Coordinating Committee; however, local coordination problems
that are not resolved by the local coordination committees would reach the
Central Coordinating Committee by referral upwards through the line ministries
concerned. The organizational structure as proposed in the Plan is
reflected in Chart 8951.



IS,EX 2
Page  5
D. Emerging Organizational Structure
9.        A recent decision by the Prime Minister has put the Population
Planning Division proposed in the First Five-Year Plan under the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning (now renamed the Ministry of Health and Popu-
lation Planning - MOHPP). Consequently, the MOHPP will have two divisions
(a) the Health Division to be responsible for the delivery of integrated
health and family planning services and (b) the newly created Population
Planning Division under a full-time Secretary responsible for coordination
of program activities. In addition, the Health and Planning Section of the
Planning Commission (being renamed the Health and Population Planning Section
- IPPS) will have responsibilities related to the review of the program and
allocation of funds. Each of the other concerned ministries are developing
their capabilities by the appointment of a Population Program Officer.
Health Division
10.       The Health Division is. responsible for the facilities and personnel
through whom health services and family planning services are provided. The
way family planning personnel and supervisors fit into this structure is
diagrammed in Chart 9486. There are two main branches of facilities and
personnel: the Rural Health Complex Scheme (which reports to the Director
of hlealth Services in the Hlealth Directorate) and those facilities and
personnel which are not part of the Rural Health Scheme (these consists of
two programs, the Postpartum Program and the Training-cumn-Research Institutes).
As one reviews the system at the district and thana clinic levels and as it
concerns the village-level family welfare workers;, there is a split between
the health and family planning staff responsible for overall health and family
planning programs. For example the family planning officers are responsible
for the administration of the family planning program activities and the
technical overall supervisors, while the district technical officer and the
thana health inspectors are responsible for the work of clinic staff and
village level workers. Further, not all staff in this system are carried on
a common budget nor consider themselves part of a common service. This is
true even among different groups of welfare workers responsible to the health
inspector, who has under him staff paid from a Health budget, others paid
from a malaria eradication budget, others from a family planning budget.
These divisions within a service that has supposedly been integrated reflect
the historical facts of prior parallel (i.e., non-integrated) services,
budgets, and supervisory hierarchies. It is reported that these workers
continue to think of themselves and their accountability in terms of pre-
integration budgets and relationships. In short, integration does not exist
at the budgetarv level, where the old separate budget distinctions apparently
still exist. The Acting Project Director of the rural health complex
scheme Is still the head of the Malaria Eradlcation Program and carries his
new responsibilitv as an additional function. For effective integration the
following actions should be taken: (a) remove the budgetary distinction



ANNEX 2
Page 6
between health and family planning, (b) carefully redefine the role of
thana family planning offices to fit into the integrated set up, and (c)
appoint a full-time Director of Health Services who should be given clear
authority to administer and discipline the delivery of integrated services.
Population Planning Division
11.       The PPD has just been established and therefore has a limited staff.
It is reported that the Minister of MOHPP proposes to transfer major functions,
staff and resources (not related to the delivery of family planning services)
of the existing NFPB, TREC and Inspection Directorate to the PPD. As in the
Health Division this Division will have two levels: (a) the 'Secretariat'
that performs the functions of policy making and guidance, and (b) the
'Directorate' which are the operational cadres responsible for carrying out
specific functional programs. The internal organization of the PPD has not
yet been determined (clarification is to be a condition of credit effectiveness).
Present thinking is that there will be one Joint Secretary, two Deputy
Secretaries and three or four section officers at the Secretariat level. At
the Directorate level there will be a Director-General and a number of Directors
for different types of functions (Chart 9486).
12.       The functions and responsibilities of the PPD as proposed by the
Government are given below:
(a) Development of coordinated schemes for population activities
for all concerned ministries and their Drocessing for approval
by appropriate authorities (i.e. Planning Commission, National
Economic Council, etc.).
(b) Internal evaluation of population projects of all relevant
ministries. (External evaluation will be arranged by the
Planning Commission).
(c) Act as contact point for foreign donors in matters of
implementation of aided projects.
(d) Direct administrative respomsibility of entire Dopulation
activities except those relating to the integrated rural
health complex scheme, thie postpartum program and clinical familv
planing services which wiill be tinder the Healthl Division.
The  PPI) however, will have supervisorv control over the
population activities of the Hlealth Division.
(e)  Inspection, supervision, and coordinated implementation of
approved schemes of all relevant ministries.
(f) Assist the National Population Council in developing
national policv and act as Secretariat to the Council.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(g) Initiate and follow up the introduction of legislative
measures relating to population policies.
(h) Conduct relevant operational research in the country to
study the effectiveness of different measures and evolve
new methodologies for population planning.
(i) Training personnel involved in population programs in
different ministries.
(j) Arrange for the production of information and education
materials and evolve suitable communication strategies.
Health and Population Planning Section (PPS) of the Planning Commission
13.       The Government proposes to strengthen the Health and Population
Planning Section of the Planning Commission. The PPS will have two units:
(a) a Planning Unit (existing) that will evidently discharge the functions
of allocation of funds, liason with external agencies and total program
review, and (b) an External Evaluation Unit responsible for conducting and
arranging external evaluation of program activities. Each division will be
headed by an assistant chief and will have appropriate staff. The PPS will
discharge the following functions and responsibilities:
(a) Review and approve proposed annual programs on population
activities prepared by different ministries and agenices;
(b) Allocate funds for the population program activities in the
country to different ministries and agencies on the basis
of review of progress of programs in consultation with the
PPD and to determine intersectoral priorities;
(c) Liase with external agencies for technical coordination of
external assistance;
(d) Assist the PPD in coordination of the population planning
efforts of ministries and agencies and in supervising the
implementation of population activities;
(e) Arrange and carry out external evaluation of the population
program of various ministries and agencies and ensure
necessary follow up measures; and
(f) Receive internal evaluation reports from the PPD for use in
preparing annual programs.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Other Ministries
14.       None of the implementing ministries except the MOHPP has had
experience in planning and carrying out Dopulation activities. Therefore, a
population program officer (PPO) is proposed to be appointed in each of these
ministries for the purpose. There will be one PPO plus an assistant at the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development in addition to an adviser.
There will be three PPOs at the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare and
two advisers. The Ministries of Agriculture, Education and Information and
Broadcasting will each have one PPO. These seven PPOs will: (a) ensure that
their own ministries carry out their section of the overall program; (b)
maintain a flexible to and fro channel of communication so that the PPD can
intervene when necessary and in return receive feedback direct from the field.
So that they may gain the experience beyond their present work necessary to
carry out their new functions, all the PPOs will be given a orientation course.
This will commence with a two-weeks orientation in Dacca (IDA will provide a
consultant to help design the course) followed by a week's visit to the thanas
where the schemes will eventually be working. They will. then go to other
countries to visit ongoing family planning programs.
National Population Council
15.       The National Population Council has not yet been formed.  But an
agreement has been reached during negotiations that the National Population
Council shall have been established, with substantially the composition and
functions as set out in the First Five-Year Plan as a condition of credit
effectiveness. The composition given in the Plan is as follows:
The Prime Minister                             Chairman
Minister of Health and Family Planning         Vice-Chairman
Minister of Rural Development                  Member
Minister of Agriculture
Minister of Education
Minister of Information and Broadcasting
Minister of Labor and Social Welfare
Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission
Member-in-Charge, Population Planning,.
Planning Commission



ANNEX 2
Page 9
One representative from the Press
(Nominated by the Bangladesh
Federal Union of Journalists)
Central Coordination Committee
16.       While the committees at the district and thana levels are yet to
be formed, the Central Coordination Committee has been formed by the order
of the Government on November 27, 1974. The order states that the Govern-
ment "is pleased to constitute a Central Coordination Committee on popula-
tion activities with immediate effect to coordinate and help develop inter-
ministrial activities in the population program. The composition of the
Committee is as follows":
(a) Minister for Health, Population Planning, Labor and
Social Welfare Chairman.
(b) Secretary, Ministry of Health and Population Planning
(Population Planning Division) - Member-Secretary.
Members
(c) Secretary, Ministry of Health and Population Planning
(Health Division).
(d)  Secretary, Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives (Rural Development Division).
(e) Secretary, Ministry of Education, Cultural Affairs and Sports
(Education Division).
(f) Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture.
(g) Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.
(h)  Secretary, Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare.
(i)  Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs.
(j)  Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
(k)  Secretary, Ministry of Planning.
(1) Chairman, Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies.
(m) Chief, Health and Population Plannint Section, Planning Commission.
(n) In absence of the Chairman, the Member-Secretary will chair the
meeting.



ANNEX 2
ag- 10.
BANGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 1
Contraceptive Targets & Performances, 1965 - 1971
I UD                Sterilization         Conventional Contraceptives
Years        Target Performance       Target Performance         Target    Performance
1965-1966     243,725    95,960           7,000     3,945        119,784,0OO   13,633,500
1966-1967     360,000    250,127         8,400    46,015         128,160,000  34,164,396
1967-1968     480,000   349,775         480,000   252,821        128,971,008   65,823,702
1968-1969     6oo,ooo   396,750         600,000   389,451        101,091,456   70,6ol,352
1969-1970     720,000   271,713         720,000   314,191        127,533,312   59,802,402
1970-1971     720,000    82,118        720,000   113,263         127,533,312   30,936,870
SOURME: National Family Planning Board, Bangladesh.



ANNEX 2
Page11
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 2
Contraceptive Targets & Performances, 1971 - 1973
1972 - 1972                     1972 - 1973
Methods                   Target   Performance            Target   Performance
IUD                               120.,000     9,087                    _     15,785
Vasectomy                         120,000     16,563                   _         242
Tubal Ligation                     10,762        296                   -          550
Condoms (in dozens)            58,788,000  9,392,160           58,788,288  1,688,807
Dura Foam (in vials)              325,ooo      8,657              328,996     23,574
EMKO (in vials)                   295,ooo     22,572              294,996     72,721
Oral Pills (in cycles)          2,600,000     22,079            2,599,984     13,977
SOURCE: National Family Planning Board, Bangladesh.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
External Assistance
1.        The Planning Commission has allocated Tk. 700 million (US$93 mil-
lion) for the population program during the First Five-Year Plan (1974-78).
The Plan's foreign exchange component was originally estimated at just
under 20%, but this proportion is rising as specific programs are taking
shape. The expenditure target is to be financed from the national budget
and from several foreign donors. It appears that external assistance
mav provide around 75% of total financing during the first three to four
years of the'Plan, with two-thirds of this assistance on a grant basis.
2.        The UNFPA project, for which an agreement has been signed for three
years, includes US$5.2 million for eight components that have been worked
out in considerable detail, plus US$4.8 million for two broad components
for which detail are to be worked out later. The eight presently-planned
components include: (a) technical assistance for census development and data
processing, (b) rural development cooperatives and population education,
(c) family planning motivation and services in industry and plantations,
(d) population education and training for labor officers and labor organizations,
(e) training program for workers in an integrated national health and family
planning program, (f) teaching various aspects of population in medical schools,
(g) strengthening the family planning clinical program with emphasis on MCH-
based family planning, and (h) organization and management of comprehensive
health and family planning supplies and delivery of service; UNICEF is concerned
with this. An additional USS4.8 million will be expended on projects now
under appraisal: (i) construction of the union level health sub-centers,
(j) communication, information and education activities, possibly for rehabil-
itating the TREC at the MOHPP, (k) population education in schools, and
(1) health education.
3.        So far the largest bilateral assistance is from the United States
Agencv for International Development (USAID), which in 1q72 and 1973 mnade
$6.5 million available for health facilities, manpower retraining, medical
equipment, and contraceptive supplies. USAID is likely to make another $8-10
million directlv available to the program over the 1974-77 period; an important
form of indlrect USAID assistance will he provided by contracts (a) with the
University of Michigan for help to TREC and (h) with Population Services Inc.
to test the feasibility of expanding contraceptive distribution through private
commercial channels. The Swedish International Development Authority (STDA)
has already committed US$1.0 million for specific population assistance in



ANNEX 3
Page 2
1974 as part of its general assistance. The U.K.'s Overseas Development
Ministry (ODM) has committed US$78,000 equivalent to the Census Commissioner's
Office, for a retrospective survey of fertility and mortality following the
national census of February, 1974.
4.        Several private agencies will also make important financial and
technical assistance contributions to the program. The Pathfinder Fund is
supporting the postpartum program and a model clinic in Dacca through a
grant of US$1.5 million. The Population Council plans to conduct one of
its world-wide Taylor Berelson postpartum demonstration projects at a total
cost of about Tk. 1.5 crores (US$2 million). The Ford Foundation's Dacca
office has recommended approval of a two-year grant of US$300,000 for support
of a new Population Studies Center (PSC) at the Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies. The Foundation will also support a pilot project for
the development of population education curriculum, and a demographic unit
in the Planning Commission. Canada's International Development Research
Center may contribute C$ 30,000 towards applied population research. Com-
munications among donors have been relatively good and there does not appear
to be any serious danger of overlap among donor activities. The existing
Family Planning Section in the Planning Commission-has successfully coordinated
these efforts.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Draft Terms of Reference for a Management Study
Introduction
1.        Terms of reference for a management study will be elaborated, with-
in the framework described below, between the consulting firm and the Govern-
ment of Bangladesh with IDA's concurrence. The broad outlines for such a
study are described below followed by a timetable for its implementation.
Draft Terms of Reference
2.        The primary objective of the management study will be to review the
existing organization and administration of the Government's population
program in order to make appropriate recommendations for the effective inte-
gration of health and family planning services and for the implementation
and coordination of population program efforts. This integration includes
the integration of the delivery of effective services for health and family
planning, manpower training, the provision of supples, dissemination of
appropriate information, and evaluation of both health and family planning
services. To this end the study will, at the central level, review and
make recommendations on the organization and administration of family
planning services in the MOHPP and its relationship to the newly formed
Population Planning Division and its constituents, the NFPB, TREC, and the
Inspection Directorate.
3.        The study should also review and make recommendations on the
appropriate organizational relationship and optimum administrative procedure
between the central, district, thana and field levels, and also between
relevant health personnel, family planning personnel, and personnel of
other units working in population at each of these levels. Ideally, the
study should aim at reviewing and drafting or suggesting amendments as
appropriate to the functions and responsibilities of each health unit in-
sofar as its work is related to the population program and of each family
planning unit at all administrative levels; and to review and propose appro-
priate amendments to the job description of the principal family planning
workers and workers in the health field whose work is related to population.
Last, but not least, the study will review the present data information flow
and evaluation system and make recommendations to develop an efficient
system of information feedback and analysis for improving program management.
Implementation
4.        The study will be undertaken by mianagement consultants and on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. When the study is completed the Government



i-A'
ANNEX 4
Page 2
will discuss its recommendati6ns with IDA and any other donors who
wish to do so, before any of these are implemented. The following is a
timetable for the implementation of this component:
Action to be
Steps                                   taken by           Date
1.   Invitation to firms to submit
proposals                            Government      January 31, 1975
2.   Submission of proposals                    Consulting
Firms        April 30, 1975
3.   Review of proposals and selection
of firm, after consultation
with IDA                             Government      May 31, 1975
4.   Negotiation and signing of                 Government
contract                             and Consul-
tants          June 30, 1975
5.   Initiation of study                        Consultants    July 1, 1975
6.   Completion of study and
submission of report
to Government with
copies to IDA                        Consultants    December 31, 1975
7.   Discussion between Government              Government
and interested donors                Donors          January, 1976
8.   Implementation of study's
recommendations                      Government      February 1976
Cost
The total cost of the study is estimated at US$50,000.  The amount
is included in the MOHPP (PPD) budget given at the end of Annex 15.
1~~~4                      r.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Availability and Training of Health and Family Planning Manpower
1.        The family welfare visitors (FWVS) are the main category of health
personnel used for family planning services. Various categories of para-
medical personnel and their training is shown in Chart 8949. A major
expansion in facilities for training family welfare visitors (a category
of paramedical manpower) has been proposed by the Government. The main
constraint on the expansion of training is the shortage of tutors and
physical facilities. At present there are only about 400 FWVs in the
country. The Government has also decided to reduce the period of training
of FWVs from 27 months to 18 months by condensing the courses. Neither
the medical nor the paramedical students receive any field training at
present in community health or family planning. Also no arrangements exist
at present to train medical students with regard to the delivery of clinical
contraceptives. The project attempts to strengthen the training program
for health and family planning manpower by constructing, equiping and
furnishing:
(a) One college of nursing in Dacca to replace the existing
inadequate facilities. Also three micro buses and one
sedan will be provided for field training of students. The
estimated requirement of tutor nurses up to 1983 and their
availability for the project's expanded facilities are
given in Tables 1 and 2.
(b)  Eight family welfare visitor training schools to expand the
training facilities. The availability and program require-
ments of FWVs up to 1983 are shown in Tables 3, 4 and 5.
Also the project includes one micro bus and one sedan for
each school to carry the students for field training.
(c) Eight field training thana health centers along with
dormitories for 25 students to provide opportunity for
field training. Also the project includes eight micro
buses, eight ambulances and eight sedans - one of each for
the eighlt health centers. Special equipment for clinical
contraceptive methods is also provided. The expected
training load is given in Table 6.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(d) Field training thana health subcenters (24) - Three
subcenters are attached to each of the above thana
health centers for field training. Accommodations
are provided for two students.
(e) Four Model Family Planning Clinics - Discussed in
Annex 6.
2.        The detail cost estimates of physical facilities are given in
Annex 21 and of vehicles and special equipment in the table at the end of
this annex.



BANGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 1
Estimated Number of Required Nursing Tutors, 1974-83
Required Number of Tutors
by Institutions                          197h    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Nursing Schools
Estimated Enrolled Students 1/        1,800   2,440   2,770   3,100   3,440   3,750   3,960   4,050   4,050   4,050
Tutors 2/                                90     122      138     155      172     182      198      202     202      202
FWV Training Schools
Estimated Enrolled Students 3/          450     570      570     600      650     650      650     650      650     650-
Tutors 2/                                23      28       28      30       33      33       33      33       33      33
Female Family Welfare Workers
Tutors 4/                                20      23       27      30       33      37       h0      43       47       50
Total Number of Tutors
Required                                 133      173     193      215     238     252      271     278      278      278
y/  Estimated nursing student population is based on the assumption that the annual student intake will
increase from 775 in 1973 to 1,500 by 1979 and will be stabilized thereafter.
2/ One tutor per 20 students.
3/ Please refer to T able 5.
T/  One tutor per training center, please refer to Annex 7 on female family welfare workers.
o' '



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 2
Availability of Nursing Tutors and Public Health Nurses
(1973)   19714    1975    1976    1                 979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Available Nursing Tutors
as of July each year            (h4)       56      85     135      182     227      269     309      347     383      417
New Graduates from
Nursing College 1/                         18      23      54       51h     54       54      54       54      54      54
Annual Attrition  /                         2       3        4       7        9      12      11       16      18       20
Net Addition per Year                      16      29      50       47      45       42       40      38      36      3h
Nursing Tutor Requirement 3/              133     173     193      215     238      252     271      278     278     278
Shortage of Tutors                         77      88      58       33      11        -       -        -
Availability of Public
Health Nurses M                             -       -       -        -       -       17      38       69     105     139
1/ Assuming that 90% of the students will complete the two-year course successfully.
2/ Assuming that 5% of the total tutors will leave the service.
3/  See Table 1.
12/  Based on the second Five-Year Plan,proposals, the nursing college could supply public health
nurses in addition to tutors.                                                                                CD



BANGIADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 3
Minimum Number of Family Welfare Visitors Required for MCH/FP Service Points  1974-83
Number of
By Type of          Workers per
Facilities          Institution   1973    1974.  1975   1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Thana Rural Health
Centers                 (2)        300     370      440    522     612      712     712      712     712     712      712
Union Health
Sub-Centers             (1)        186      186     210    300     450      600     750   1,000   1,250   1,375   1,500
Demonstration Than&
Ilral Health Sub-Centers (2)          -       -        -     16      32       32      32      32       32      32       32
Model Family
Plawnning Clinics       (2)           -                       a _  8  8        8      16      16       16      16      16
Maternal and Child
Welfare Centers        (1 or 2) 1/   93     100      100    100     100      100     150     150      150     200      200
Total                               579     656      750    946   1,202   1,452   1,660   1,910   2,160   2,335   2x460
i/One FWV per center for the First Five-Year Plan period and increased to two FWVs per center
during the Second Five-Year Plan period.



BINGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 4
Availability of Family Welfare Visitors, 1973-1983
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
As of September (A)        700     680     662      952   1,213   1,448   1,659   1,921   2,127   2,322   2,498
Annual Attritionl/          70      68       66      95     121     145     166      202     213     232     250
Annual Graduation2/         50      50      356     356     356     356     408      408     408     408     408
Net Addition               -20    -18      290      261     235     211     262      206     195     176     158
Required Number of
FWV as of July (B)         579     656     750      946   1,202  1,452   1,660   1,910   2,160   2,335   2,460
Difference Between
(A) and (B)                121      24    -88 f       6      1       _4      -1      11     -33      -13      384
1/ 10Q per year.
2/ See Table 2.
3/ Shortage could be managed by the surplus of previous years.
/ Assuming that Union Health Sub-Center establishment would be 1,500 (less
than half of the first Five-Wear Plan target) because of inadequate
availability of FWVs. With the present production capacity of FWVs the First Five-
Year Plan goal of establishing   Union Health Sub-Centers would be
achieved only after 1990.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
BANGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 5
Estimate of Family Welfare Visitors Graduating
from the Training Schools
Student Intake                        Cumulative
Start of Course    Existing New             Number of    Total of
or Graduation       Schools  Schools        Graduates    Graduates
September 1973      210/                       502
March 1974          210                        25            75
September 1974      210                        25           100
March 1975          210                       178           178
September 1975      210                       178           356
March 1976          210                       178           534
September 1976      210                       178           712
March 1977          210                       178           890
September 1977       90 2/    150(240) 3/    178          1,068
March 1978                    240 4/          178         1,246
September 1978                240             178         1,424
March 1979                    240             204         1,628
September 1979                240             204         1,832
March 1980                    240             204         2,036
September 1980                240             204         2,240
March 1981                    240             204         2,40
September 1981                240             204         2,648
March 1982                    240             204         2,842
September 1982                240             204         3,046
1/ The seven existing schools are comprised of 3 FWV Schools and 4 Training_
cum-R.esearch Institutes.
2/ The existing 4 TCR[s will cease enrollment of FWV students and the 3
existing FWV schools will process the last group of students.
3/ Five new FWV schools will start functioning.
V/ Three more new schools will start functioning.



BANGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 6
Expected Annual Training Load of 8-Thana Health Complexes
Number of         Total
Total Number     Trainees           Number         Number of              Duration of
TZpe of Trainee           to be Trained    in Each GrouM_   of Groups        Groups per CMlex    Field Training,
1.  Medical Students          1,500              15              100                12                  2 weeks
2. Family Welfare Visitors    480                10               48                 6                  8 weeks
3. Female Family Welfare
Workers (FF,4W)         4,5002/            20              225                28                  1 week
2/ 8 thana health complexes could start training function in full
scale from the middle of 1977.
2/ The training capacity in each center will be 25 at any given time;
there will also be accommodations for six trainees at three
sub-health centers in the same thana.
3/ Annual refresher courses based on the FFWW staff level in 1979.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
THE CCOS ESTI}ATES OF THE NON-CONSTRlUCrIOD ?OGEMi OF   E MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION PLANNING (HEALTE DIVISION)
Bais of Estimation and Phasins    t975-7          1976-7         1       977_8                 Local        Fore.tn         Total
A. TSAINING SCHOOLS (81 AND NURSING COLLEGE (1)
1.  Vehlcjes                                 ) $8,500 ea. 3 for Nursing                       93,500                                                     93,500          93,500
11 Microbuses                            ) College, 1 each for Training                   63,000                                                     36,000         36,000
9 Sedans                                ) School, Sedan- $4,000 _OD
Subtotal                                                                            129,500                                                    129,500         129,500
Contingencies                                                                         7.100j ,                                                   7.100          7 100
TOrAL - Vehicles                                                                    136,600                                                    136,600         136,600
2. Svecial Enuinuent8 tRCaining schools                                                       143,000                                                   143,000         143,000
Contingencies                                                                        8,000                                                       8,000           8000
TOTAL - Special Equipment                                                                                                                      151.000         151.000
TOTAL - TRAINING SCHOOLS AND NURSING
COLLEGE                                                                     287,600                                                   287,600         287,600
B. IHANA HEALTH COMPLEXES (8)
1. Vehicles
8 Microbuses                               $8,500                                         68.000                                                     68,000          68,000
8 Ambulances                               $8,500                                         68.000                                                     68,000          68,000
8 Sedans                                   $4,000                                         ,32000                                                     32.000          32,000
Subtotal                                                                            168,000                                                    168,000         168,000
Contingencies                                                                         9.200                                                      9.200           9 200
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                                    177,200                                                    177,200         177,200
2. Soecial Equiment
8 Sets of Medical Equipment                Same as in Model Clinics                      179,000                                                    179,000         179,000
Contingencies                                                                         9.800                                                      9,800           9,800
TOTAL - Special Equipment                                                            QJ                                                        188 801 800
TOTAL - THAN4 HEALTH CCMPLEXES                                                      366,000                                                    366,000         366,000



ArNNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Model Family Planning Clinics
This annex describes the functions, administration and facilities
for the model clinics. These clinics would establish an entirely new
facility for health and family planning programs and therefore, their
operating cost for two years is included in the project.
Functions of the Clinic
1.        The major functions of the clinic will be to:
(a)  train medical students in family planning methods
with special emphasis on teaching new techniques
for abortion and sterilization;
(b)  support teaching of family planning by providing
facilities and clinical material to the medical faculty
members and medical students;
(c)  carry out clinical research and evaluation works on the
various contraceptive methods; and
(d)  increase availability of clinical services to the community,
especially for abortion and sterilization.
Administration
2.        The clinics will be headed by the departmental heads (Medical
Officers) who will be responsible for the overall administration of the clinic.
Facilities
3.        In addition to the manpower facilities described below there would
be medical equipment for each of the following units (list of equipment
available separately).
(a) Administrative Unit: The proposed staff under the project
departmental head for administration will be comprised of:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(1) an accountant,
(ii)  a central record keeper,
-(iii)  a typist,
(iv)  a receptionist,
(v)  a sister nurse-in-charge,
(vi)  a counselor to make referrals,
(vii)  a driver and driver helper assigned to transport
patients in the ambulance, and
(viii) one peon and one night guard.
(b) Female Sterilization Unit: Staffed by one part-time surgeon,
2 surgical assistants, 2 nurses, 1 nurse's aide, 1 unit
receptionist and 1 motivator.
(i)  The surgeon will work four hours per day and perform
operations according to type, on alternate days.
(ii)  The nurses and nurse's aide will work full-time.
(iii)  One motivator for follow-up.
(c) Treatment Unit: This unit will cover cases of incomplete
abortion and miscarriages and would be staffed by 1 part-time
female physician, 1 nurse and 1 unit receptionist.
(i)  The physician will divide her time between abortion
patients, contraceptive patients, and other clinic
duties as needed.
(ii)  The nurse will work full-time, dividing her time between
abortion cases, the recovery room and other clinic
duties as needed.
(d) Contraceptive Unit: Staffed by 1 female physician,
1 nurse, 1 nurse's aide, 1 unit receptionist, and
2 motivators.
Mi) The physician will work part-time to examine
patients for giving pills and to insert IUDs;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(ii) The nurse and nurse's aide will work full-time;
and
(iii) two motivators for follow-up.
(e) Vasectomy Unit: Staffed by 4 part-time surgeons, 2 nurses,
1 nurse s aide, and 1 unit receptionist.
(i)  The surgeons will work four hours per day performing
vasectomy operations;
(ii) The nurses and nurse's aide will work full-time and
will be in charge of the vasectomy recovery room.
Reporting and Evaluation
3.        A report on clinic performance will be submitted to the concerned
Joint-Secretary, MOHPP each month with a copy to the Inspection Directorate.
The report will contain:
(a) progress in clinic performances under each clinical
unit and service unit;
(b)  training given and problems encountered;
(c)  the nmber of new patients and follow-up patients
per month for each unit;
(d) age and parity of new patients in each unit;
(e)  training received in-house (who was trained and who
directed the training); and
(f) the type and cause of each case of complication and
the results of treatment.
Facilities
4.        The project provides for the required equipment and recurring
cost of the clinics for two years assuming that the work would be initiated
while the clinics are under construction. The details are given in the
table at the end of this annex.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
COST ESTIMATES (OTHER THAN COOSTRLCTISSI)FOR THE 8.ETA8LIMEOMNT OF MODEL CLINICS
Bans of Estimation and Phasing    197578          1976 77      1977-78      1978-79      Local         Forign        Tntal
.ODEL CLINICS
V. Vehicles
4 Station Wagons                                     $5700 each                                      22,800                                                  22,800         22,800
4 Sedans                                             $4000 each                                      16.000                                                  16000          1
Sab-totaS                                                                                    38,800                                                 38,800         38,800
Cootingoncies                                                                                2.2100                                                  2.100           2,10
TOTAL - Vohiclos                                                                             40,900                                                 40,900         40,900
2. Special Eia,eot
4 Clinical Sets far Sterilization Un.it             (See aeparate shoet far detailed                 53,340                                                  :2,340         52,340
4 Clinical Sets far Abortion Unit                   (listing and rants.  207. added fat               8,940                                                   8,940          8,940
4 Clinical Sita far Va.e.t.tmy Unit                 (freight and insurance )                          7,200                                                   7,220          7,220
4 Sets nf Additiosal Equip.ent                                                                       2L,000                                                  21.00          21,000
Sob-total                                                                                    89,500                                                 89,500         89,500
Contitgencies                                                                                 4.900                                                  4.900         -4.900
TOTAL - Special Equipment                                                                    94,400                                                 94.400         94,400
3. Incroes-tal -Rcarcent Cost
a. Salarv Isecart
4 Medical Officers                                Tg2000-100                                                    16,000       16,800         32,800                       32,800
4 Fall-tine Female Physicians and 8               TK850-75 for a full-time
part-tune Surgeons                             position                                                    14,400       19,200         29,600                       29,600
4 Accountants                                     TiC600-50                                                      0,000        3,300         10,500                       10,300
4 Counsellors                                     TiC600-50                                                      3,000         300          10,300                       10,300
4 Sistoc Nurses                                   TK5050-50                                                      4,200        4,600          8,800                        8,800
24 N,rsos                                        TK400-50                                                       20 600       22,900        43,500                        43,500
Rcc-d Kecporn                                   TK400-50                                                       3,400        3,800          7,200                        7,200
12  octivatocs                                   TK400-5C                                                       10,300       11,500         21,800                       21,800
a Ty'pists                                        TK220-20                                                       1,800        2,000          3,800                        3,800
8 Drivero                                         TK140-10                                                       2,300        2,400          4,700                        4,700
12 Nucsec Aides                                  TK300-20                                                        7,300        7,800         12400                        15,100
4 Ricepriosists                                   .,220-20                                                       1,800        2,000          3,800                        3,800
4 Pco..                                                                                                            640          680          1,320                        1,320
4 Night Gards                                                                                                      640          680          1,320                        1,320
16 Sargeons (half-tico)                           TK400-50                                                      13,700       15,300         29 000                       2,D00
8 Assistant Sucgeons (half-time)                  TK300-20                                                       4,900        5 200         10 100                       10,100
Sub-tccal                                                                                                111,980      121,460        233,440                      233,440
23% Salary  Adjustrent                                                                                    27.995       30,340         58 335                       583335
Sub-total                                                                                                139,975      151,800        291,770                      291,775
Contingecci.s                                                                                               .103225   -IL0            27.225                       27.225
TOTAL - Salaries                                                                                          150,300     168,700        319,000                       319,000
h. Operating Cast
Vehicle Maintenance -TK1000 p.n./p.v. (8)                                                                       12,700       12,700         25,400                       25,400
Special Equipmcnt Maintenance                     5% of cost                                                     4,500        4,500          9,000                        9,000
Office Sopplies                                   Est.                                                           1,000        1,000          2,000                        2,000
0edl( tal/S,,rgical Supplies                      TK300001year/clinic                                           15,315       15,315         30,630                       30,630
1 -Patie-t Diet                                  TK30000/year/clniic                                            15,315       15,315         30,630                       30,630
Per Dire far Trainees                               20/day/dontor(50)k/linin(4)                                  7.130        7,150         14,300                       14,300
Scb-total                                                                                                  55,980      55,980        111,960                      111,960
C-nt ing.scies                                                                                              4,590      7_850         111 640                      111,640
TaleS - Opersting Cast                                                                                     60,570       63,030       123,600                      123,600
TOTAL - Incremental Recurrost Cost                                                                        210,870     231,730        442,600                      442,600
Total - MODEL CLINICS                                                                                     210 070     231.730        442,600       1               527 00



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANGLADESII
POPULATION PROJECT
Functions and Training of Female Family Welfare Workers
1.        The Ministry of Health and Population Planning (MOHPP) has decided
to extend health and family planning services through teams of multinurpose
workers throughout the country.  Each team is comprised of one male and one
female worker.  These workers, to be called family welfare workers, would be
responsible for inoculations, sanitation, maternal and child health and family
planning, record keeping and simple health care. The ultimate objective of
one team per 4,000 population (requiring 19,000 teams or 38,000 workers) is
too expensive for the country to afford at this stage. Therefore, the MO?PP
has decided to have one team per 6,000 population or about 12,000 teams by
the end of the five-year period. About 10,000 existing family planning and
other health workers (all males except 500) have been retrained as multi-
purpose workers. Thus there are about 10-11,000 female workers to be re-
cruited to complete the teams. Without the female counterparts, the maternal
and child health and family planning services, as well, as accompanying
education and motivation programs, will suffer. The males at present have
heavy workloads and cannot possible do justice to simple health care, much
less to MOHPP. They are expected to cover some 30-40 households per day to
complete the first round of contracts and records on eight different forms
in a month. The mission suggests recruitment of 7,500 female familv workers
(FFlW's) in the five-year plan period (Table 1).  The project includes salary
support and training of 3,700 such workers.  Another 1,800 FFWNT will he pro-
vided by the UNFPA.  It is recommended that the FFWls have at least eight
years of schooling and be residents of the same village or thana in which they
will work. They should be given three months of training at the district
level in groups of 30. About 100 FFhWs can be trained in each district in
a year. The district medical officers and 3-4 staff assigned to district
headouarters should be the trainers.
2.        The functions of the FFTW should be to:  (a) motivate the eligible
women through individual talks and group teaching, (b) provide information
regarding availability of contraceptive services, (c) deliver certain tvpes
of contraceptives, particularly pills (they will be given the list of con-
traindications and training in examining the patient for these), (d) refer
clients to health centers and mobile clinic teams for IUD insertions and
sterilization operations (e) follow-up acceptors, and (f) identify pregnant
women and newborn babies for MCH services and for referral to health centers.
The work of the FFWWs should be supervised technically by FWVs to be posted



ANNEX 7
Page 2
at the union level sometime in the future: The administrative supervision
is to be performed by a health inspector who is supported by one assistant
inspector per union; for every six assistant inspectors there would be one
inspector. In other words, in each thana there would be eight to twelve
assistant inspectors and two inspectors to supervise the work of the FFWWs.
The project provides for training (including field material) of these FFWWs
and salary support for four years (details are given in the table at the
end of the annex). In addition, in nineteen thanas special motivation kits
will be provided on a pilot basis (see Annex 14).
3.        The FFWWs would be appointed and trained in phases.  It is suggested
that out of 3,700 FFWWs provided in the project first, 1,500 should be
appointed by December 1975, another 1,500 by March 1976 and the remaining 700
by June 1976.
4.        The estimated costs of salary support and training of FFWW are
given at the end of the annex.



BANGLADESH
POPUIATION PROJECT
Table 1
Training and Recruitment Plan for Female Family Welfare Workers
(1974 - M984)
JLj76   12977     978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Recommended F
Staff Level                        1,500   3,000   4,500   6,000   7,500   9,000  10,500  12,000  13,500  15,000
Annual Attrition_/                    300      600     900   1,200   1,500   1,800   2,100   2,400   2,700   3,000
Number of f1raining
6lasses2/                            60       70      80       90     100      110      120     130      140     150
Number of Training
Centersj/                            20       23      27       30      33       37      40       43       47      50
1/ With the annual increase of 1,500 FFWW.
2/ With 20% of annual attrition.
3/ 30 trainees per class.
/ Each center will undertake a 3-month course 3 times a year.
X 



COST ESTIMATES OF SALARY SUPPORT AND TRAINING OF FEMALE FAMILY WELFARE WORKERS
Female Family Welfare   Basis of Estimates and Phasing                    US $
Workers                                               1975    1976      1977       1978       Local    Foreign    Total
1. Incremental Recurrent
Cost Salary Support   TK200-15 (600-1200-2700-3700)
Include all allowances          143,000 348,000  781,900  1,203,700  2,476,600              2,476,600
Contingencies                                            3,900  24,500   86,800    180,500    295,700                295,700
TOTAL - Salary Support                                 146,900 372,500  868,700  1,384,200  2,772,300              2,772,300
2. Operating Cost
a. Training Stipend and
Accommodations    TK413 per trainee
(TK125 p.m. (3)
Tk38 - Accommodation (1,500)    32,800  32,800   82,100       54,700    202,400               202,400
b. Honoraria for Guest
Lecturers and Field
Supervisors          (20 Courses - 20-50-35) at
US $307 per Course ($240
for guest lectures $67 for
field supervisors)               6,100   6,100   15,400      10,700      38,300            _3
TOTAL - FAMILY WELFARE WORKERS                         185,800 411,400  966,200  1,449,600  3,013,000              3,013,000
=~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANTNEX 8
Page 1
BANGIADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Information, Education and Communication Program
General Strategy
1.        The annex examines in general terms (a) the formulation of the
pilot schemes designed to integrate family planning education and motivation
with the development program of different ministries and (b) the need for
general support to the family planning information and education program for
nationwide extension. The details are given in separate annexes by ministries.
The section on pilot schemes describes their composition, coverage, common
facilities, organizational structure, timing and phasing and the underlying
training program. (See Chart 9412 which describes the training program-ot trte
pilot schemes.) The section on program support describes the project's support
for mass media and use of facilities provided in the project. This section
also describes the primary and secondary schools' population education program.
A. Introduction
2.        It is often stated that the programs of population planning that
proceed apart from economic development or social change are unlikely
to achieve the desired objectives of reduction in population growth rates.
The knowledge of the precise role of various factors in economic develop-
ment and social change that influence fertility behavior is inadequate.
But the experience of demographic transition in the past in Europe as well
as in countries with more recent experience indicates that perhaps the pro-
cess of modernization by changing the status of women and creating an awareness
of conflict between modernization and large-size families results in changing
the social attitude in favor of smaller family size norms. It is commendable
that the GOB, recognizing the significance of this relationship, has assigned
definite roles in population planning programs to ministries responsible
for education, information and rural development. This provides a broad
multisectoral approach to the population program in its First Five-Year Plan.
The following summarizes the roles of various ministries as stated in the
Plan document:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(a)  The Ministry of Health and Family Planning will be
responsible for continuous motivation and supply of
family planning materials and services through couple
registration by health and family welfare multi-purpose
field workers.  The family planning program would be
integrated with health services for face-to-face
motivation, delivery of services and follow-up.
(b) The Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development,
and Cooperatives will develop women cooperatives for
increasing their employment potential through functional
literacy programs. Such programs will include education
on various social aspects of life including population
problems.
(c) The Ministry of Education will introduce population
education into the curricula of educational institutions
at all levels and into the program of adult education.
(d)  The Ministry of Agriculture will incorporate family
planning and nutrition education in agriculture
extension programs.
(e) The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting will have
programs for dissemination of information regarding
population problems and family planning through all
mass media including radio, T.V., newspapers, posters,
pamphlets, etc.
(f) The Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare will be
responsible for population and family planning education
and motivation through relevant social work programs.
3.        Realizing these objectives the project includes specific schemes
for all the above ministries to integrate population planning education and
motivation program (including contraceptive distribution in some cases) into
the development programs of different ministries. These programs are those
that will seemingly have greatest appeal to the population and have an
important direct relationship with population problems, e.g., women's literacy
and training, agricultural development and the school system. These schemes
are to be undertaken in a phased manner in order to learn as the schemes
proceed. The first phase forming part of the project is called the pilot
phase and the schemes are called pilot schemes.
B. Pilot Schemes
Broad Composition
4.        Following is the listing of pilot schemes in different ministries;
the details are given in a separate annex for each ministry:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(a) Ministry of Local Government, and Rural Development, and
Cooperatives
(i)  Use of model farmers and cooperative managers
as change agents for family planning; and
(ii)  Rural women's functional literacy program as
a means of acceptance of family planning.
(b) Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
(i) Rural mothers' clubs for family planning
motivation;
(ii) Women's vocational training program as a means
for acceptance of family planning; and
(iii) Population program for organized labor.
(c) Ministry of Agriculture
(i) Use of agricultural assistants for population
education.
(d) Ministry of Education
(i) Mobile population education team for seminars
on population education for school teachers.
(e) Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
(i) Use of audiovisual vans for family planning
films.
(f) Ministry of Health and Population Planning
(i) Family planning motivation kit for female
family welfare workers.
5.        Coverage:  The main criterion for determining the number as well
as the location of pilot thanas is that all the geographical areas with
different cultural, social, economic and administrative designs should be
covered by the schemes to delineate the impact of these factors on the fertility
behavior as well as on the success of the scheme. A minimum of one thana
from each of the 19 districts has been selected. Four pilot thanas - one
in each region - have been selected for the combined operation of seven out
of 9 pilot schemes to test the effect of coordinated and concentrated inputs
on fertility behavior. These would also help in developing the mechanism



ANNEX 8
Page  4
for coordination of interministerial schemes. These six out of nine schemes
are also to be operated in combination of two in thanas other than concentrated
thanas to allow the evaluation of their individual impact. The combination
consists of two schemes serving separate concentrated thana populations
(male and female) in the same thanas. The rest of the three schemes are to
be operated individually in special areas. The following is the distribution
of pilot schemes by the number of thanas (the list of thanas is given in
Table 1 and shown on the map at the end).
a.   Seven pilot schemes in concentrated
thanas                                              Number of Thanas
i.   use of model farmers and coopera-    )
tive managers                          )
ii. women's functional literacy program )
iii.   rural mothers' club                    )
iv.   use of agricultural assistants         )        4 - one each from
a district in the
4 regions
V.   mobile population education team       )
vi.   motivation kits for female family    )
welfare workers                        )
vii.   use of audiovisual vans                )
b,   Separate Pilot Schemes to operate
together in the same thanas, serving
male and female populations
i.   women's functional literacy program  )          15 - one in each
and                      )        of the 19 dis-
use of model farmers and cooperative )          tricts other than
managers                               )        the 4 districts
)       containing a con-
)       centrated thana
ii.   use of agricultural assistants         )        15 - one in each
)       of the 19 dis-
and                         )        tricts other than
mothers' clubs                         )        the 4 districts
containing a con-
centrated thana



ANNEX 8
Page 5
iii.   mobile population education team       )        15 - one in each
and                      )       of the 19 districts
motivation kit for FFWWS               )       other than the 4
)       districts containing
)       a concentrated
)       thana
Total thanas with above schemes                     49
c.   Individual Schemes
i.   women s vocational training program            8 in thanas not
having any of the
above schemes in
border districts
ii.   use of audiovisual vans                        4 in thanas not
having any of the
above schemes
Total thanas with all the schemes                   61
iii.   population program for organized labor          3 Labor Welfare
Centers
6.        Facilities:  The project includes funds, operating costs, vehicles
and equipment for the pilot schemes (see Annexes 9-14). Each ministry
will appoint an officer responsible for the pilot schemes. These officers
will receive three months training/orientation abroad to observe work done
in relevant institutions and in similar programs in other countries.
7.        Organization:  Each ministry will be responsible for the implemen-
tation of the respective pilot schemes through its population program officers
(PPO). The Population Planning Division (PPD) will be responsible for the
coordination of activities of various ministries through the support of the
coordination committees which have been proposed to be formed at national
district and thana levels in the First Five-Year Plan.
8.        Planning of Activities:  Resource persons identified in various
ministries have prepared the population programs in their respective ministries.
The details of each scheme will be worked out by the PPOs in collaboration with
the advisers that are provided for most of the schemes. It is further recom-
mended that an information, education and communication (IEC) working group
be created under the Health and Population Planning Section of the Planning
Comnission (PPS) to assist the Section in technical evaluation of the scheme
and in providing new ideas.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
9.        Evaluation:  The evaluation of the different schemes will be con-
ducted internally by the implementing ministries for which resources are
provided in the project. In addition, external evaluation will be con-
ducted by the PPS through its own proposed Evaluation Unit or through various
universities and research institutes. The project provides funds for such
evaluation studies and establishes the Evaluation Unit.
10.       Phasing and Timing:  It is proposed to start the pilot scheme by
the appointment of a population program officer preferably by early 1975 in
various ministries and arrange for their training abroad for three months.
The actual operation of the pilot scheme, is expected to start in August
1975 in half the thanas (28, including 4 concentrated thanas). The total
implementation period for these thanas would be three years. The other half
of the thanas would be taken up in the second year. Thus all the thanas will
have full operation for at least two years. At the end of each year's operation
the schemes will be evaluated for modification before continuing.
11.       Training:  The PPO will be responsible for arranging the training
of thana staff and the persons at the village level who would be involved
in the implementation of the scheme. The training will include education in
family planning and will cover the following aspects of the program:
(a) Knowledge of contraceptives, methods of birth control;
and lessons on conception and the biological process of
birth;
(b) Basic ideas on community development and population
problems;
(c) Motivation education approaches and techniques; and
(d) Use of publicity materials and communication aids
for family planning.
The chart at the end summarizes the organization of the training program.
C. General Program Support
Mass Media
12.       In addition to the above pilot schemes the project includes general
program support for (a) strengthening the mass media activities and (b)
introduction of population education in the school curriculum. It is said
that, in most circumstances, the face-to-face approach is the most effective
manner in which to motivate people towards the adoption of family planning
practice. But, given a population of 75 million and a shortage of staff



A1N,X 8
Page 7
and resources, it would be difficult to adopt face-to-face methods on a
nation-wide basis. Therefore, the project will rely heavily on the part
played by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and its use of the
mass media. People usually become aware of new ideas through public informa-
tion programs or from other people who have heard those programs. They are
then influenced by other sources of information/motivation before accepting
the new ideas and acting on them. The media, particularly the film, will
therefore endeavor to play a motivational role by using a strong emotional
appeal. This appeal will be backed by productions of a more direct informa-
tional approach as well as by the supporting work of the staff of the project
in the field. The project will use different types of media and evaluate
themn in different areas. Radio, films, film slides and tape recordings will
all play a part and, as the project progresses, it will be possible to assess
the value of each method with a view to an eventual increase in its use.
The project therefore strengthens the mass media work of the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting by: (a) establishing a Population Cell in Radio
Bangladesh, (b) expanding the production capacity of the Films Department for
production of family planning films, (c) setting up a Population Feature
Writers Bureau and (d) training a public relations officer in family planning.
The use of media facilities is shown in Chart 9411 at the end of this annex.
Curriculum Development
13.       To prepare the younger generation better, it is essential to
introduce population education in the school curriculum. About 73% of the
primary school age-group children (6-10 years) and about 25% of children
in secondary schools, ages 11-15 years, are expected to be enrolled by
1977-78. The project includes support for curriculum development and
teachers' training.



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 1
List of Pilot Scheme Thanas
Rural Women's
Functional                                  Mobile Population
Literacy and                                Education Teams        Use of Audiovisual
Model Farmer and       Mothers's Clubs and and Motivation          Vans                   Womens             Labor
Cooperative           Use of Agriculture   Kits for Family                                Vocational        Welfare
Division           District           Managers              Extension Workers    Welfare Workers                                 Training          Centers
(1)                (2)                (3)                     (4)                   (5)                   (6)                    (7)             (8)
Rajshahi        1.  Rangpur           Pirganj               Jeldhaka               Lalmonirhat           Mithopukur
2.  Dinajpur          Biral                 Boda                   Phubari                      -                Birganj
Kahercl
3.  Bogra             Sherpur               Sherpur                Sherpur               Sherpur                                  Bogra (near the
4. Rajshahi           Shingra               Nodadebpur             Nachole                                                                city)
5.  Pabna            Atghoria               Sujanagar              Ullahpara
Khulna         6.  Kusthia            Meherpur              Alamdanga              Damurhuda             Mirpur                  Bheramara
.warppkati                                                          JjaLatour
7.  Jessore           Jhikargacha           Jhikargacha            Jhikargacha           Jhikargache
8.  Khulna            Morrellganj           Fakirhat               Kaligonj                                                        Khulna (naar
9.  Barisal           Daulatkhan                                   Gournadi                                                                 the city)
10.  Patuakhali        Borguna               Bauphal                Betajo
Dacca          11.  Faridpur          Gopalgonj             Kasiani                Baliakandi            Rajoir
12.  Dacca             Joydebpur             Kaliakoir              Nowabgonj
13.  Mymensingh        Goffargoan             Iswarganj             Barhatta                                      Muktagacha
Sarishabari
14.  Tangail           Gopalpur              Gopalpur               Gopalpur              Gopalpur
Chittagong    15.  Sylhet             Hobigonj              Beanibazar             Derai
16.  Comilla           Muradnagar            Hajigonj               Sarail                Chandina
17. Noakhali           Chhagalnayia          Raipur                 Begumgonj                                     Senbag
Feni 
18.  Chittagong        Rangunia              Rangunia               Rangunia              Rangunia                                  Chittagong
19.  Chittagong H.T.  Chandroghona           Barkal                 Rangamati                                                       (near the city)
NOTE: Thanas underlined are thanas with concentration of schemes listed in columns 3 to 6.
co



THE TIWNIG PRAM  OF THE PILOT SCHEMES
PLACE
MINSTY  T... .-I..                                                                                       H 
|E     hNIST~IIYI1   | T"AsI X mIKI OWtZEfit |  |      ACTtVITY     l  l       BY           l  l       OACCA        l          THANAA SA               VILLAGE S
4C1f PROECTIONISTS
I                                             \,bI A .    fOi0.
|                            \                                         ,)| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~                      ~~~~19 PROJECTIONISTS=   
0   ~        Ly   RNN   RGA                                                                       MIITt         1\ DISTFREOIICTR 
ob? wa                          -A fSd bp 3 wSIER USRS|
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OGL
81                                                )               9    ito.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 TEACCHOENAYSH-
BROADCASTING ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~RJETONS
:1. T h ft i Al
2. Th.P500   Pp    O. 0  PO
MO b  tnl .d 0,W f..
!'!       .wt b,  bf*_
3  ,M   *.,i  Onu o



Bp,NGLA'DESl"I,,Ot pomlNs                                                    0
ip,~~~~~~               A9 r4puljt  s
t Audiod                              ion D                    _ 
:~~~~~~~~~~~~Wisre                           I                                                       O"
11A
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pu D                    Dey
oi/  ' ' sr
_,, -   Radiopu~3
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa GMt 09'a;DO''Os



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Population Program of the Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development, and Cooperatives
1.        This annex (a) examines the ongoing program at the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development, and Cooperatives (MLGRDC) within which
the population program can be incorporated, (b) suggests an organization
for the implementation of population programs within MLGRDC and (c) outlines
specific schemes for the population program that the project would support:
their content, coverage, administration, evaluation, facilities and work
schedule.
I. Ongoing Programs
2.        The development program of the MLGRDC which is called the integrated
rural development program (IRDP) is designed to promote, develop and support
local institutions with local leadership to involve them in the implement-
ation of official development policies and measures. This type of program
has had tremendous success in the experiments conducted by the Bangladesh
Academy of Rural Development (BARD) at Comilla. The IRDP program is based
on the use of two-tier cooperative systems in rural areas for various develop-
ment programs.  It envisages that apart from serving as an effective tool
for increased agricultural production, the storage and marketing facilities
of cooperatives could serve as a base for bringing desired changes in the
field of health, family planning, functional education, and in the total
process of rural development.
3.        The first tier of the two-tier cooperative system consists of
village level cooperative societies called primary cooperatives having on
an average 40-50 members. These primary societies - one in each village -
are federated into the Thana Central Cooperative Association (TCCA). The
latter supervises the activities of the primary societies, provides easy
credit and arranges the training of selected members of the cooperative like
the manager and a model farmer at the Thana Training and Development Center
(TTDC). The TCCA's operations are conducted by elected managing committees.
A project officer and a deputy project officer appointed by the Ministry in
each thana serve as manager and paid secretary of this committee. At the
district level a project director supervises and coordinates the activities
of the TCCA.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        At present, in 83 thanas with well-established IRDP programs, enter-
prising farmers (one from each society) and elected managers of the coopera-
tive societies at the village level are brought to the TTDC every week for
training. The IRDP is likely to cover half the thanas in the country by the
end of the First Five-Year Plan period. The IRDP also proposes to form
cooperatives for women and make it a base for social development programs.
The project providesadditional resources to introduce family planning in the
training of model farmers and cooperative managers so that they can be used
as change agents. Also the project totally supports the development of
functional literacy programs for rural women that would include training in
family planning through the women's cooperatives.
II. Organization for the Population Program at the Ministry
of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
A population program officer (PPO) responsible for the population
program and an assistant will be appointed as a part of IRDP in the Ministry.
The PPO will be of the level of Deputy Director and will report directly to
the Director-General, IRDP (Terms of Reference given in Appendix I). The
PPO will receive three months training at institutions abroad doing research
on communications for family planning motivation and rural development. They
will also visit countries with experience in such programs. An adviser for
twelve man-months would also be provided to assist the PPO in designing and
evaluating the scheme in addition to the training of personnel (Terms of
Reference are given in Appendix I).
6.        At the thana level one deputy project officer and one assistant
inspector-cum-trainer (mdinly for the model farmers' program) and two inspector-
cum-trainers (mainly for the women's program) in each of the nineteen pilot
thanas would be responsible for training and field supervision. They would
report in the field to the existing IRDP project officers at the thana and
district levels who would be responsible for the implementation of both
schemes in the field (see organization chart 9406 at the end of this annex).
7.        The internal evaluation of the scheme would be the responsibility
of the existing evaluation unit at TRDP that has adequate sanctioned positions.
The IPDP has created 31 professional positions for statistics, research
and evaluation, including fleld staff for its ongoing programs, of which
onlv two positions of Deputy Director and Assistant Director for Statistics
have been filled. On the assumption that the other senior positions will
also be filled soon, and the services of these officials would be available
for the internal evaluation of both pilot schemes, only two additional posts
of statistical assistants are provided in the project for internal evaluation
of the scheme.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
III. Rural Women's Functional Literacy Programs
8.        Objective:  To open opportunities (a) for instilling among rural
women an appreciation of the need for home development and child care, (b) for
motivating them to accept small family-size norms to help ensure a more
satisfactory future for their families and (c) for creating a sense of
independence by opening the possibility of earning a living through various
training programs that will hopefully be conducive to lowering the fertility.
9.        Content:  The scheme is designed to enroll rural women as members
of producers' cooperatives and to organize a functional literacy program for
those who would join the cooperatives by making a small deposit. The
functional literacy program would consist of adult literacy classes, educa-
tion and motivation in family planning, child care, nutrition, home develop-
ment and sanitation along with training in various functions like sewing,
poultry raising, kitchen gardening, etc. The training would be in selected
villages of the thana for about six months in two trades according to the
suitability to the members. Out of six month's training about three months
will be devoted to family planning, nutrition, home development, etc. The
program at the village level will be organized by five organizers selected
from each village according to their capability. These organizers will
receive honoraria and will be trained in the above described functions at
the thana level. These village organizers would also be given supplies of
contraceptives for distribution. During the period of training the members
will be charged the small amount of Tk. 2 per month as a token of their
interest. It would also cover part of the recurring cost. After the members
have learned the necessary skills the cooperatives would arrange credit to
enable them to get the necessary additional equipment and raw material according
to their trade preference. The cooperatives would also arrange for marketing
the products produced by the members during and after their training.
10.       Coverage:  The scheme will cover nineteen thanas - one in each
district. Within each thana ten villages would be selected for the women's
program. Thus about 190 villages in all would be covered by the scheme. The
scheme will operate in a phased manner - ten thanas (four concentrated thanas
and six others) will start the scheme in the first year and the rest of the
nine thanas in the second year.
11.       Expected Results:  Five village organizers from each village or
a total of 950 organizers (19 thanas X 10 villages X 5 organizers) will
receive intensive training at the thana level. If these village organizers
succeed in training 20 cooperative members (4 members per organizer) every
six months from each village the number of women exposed to such program
would be about 40 per village annually or 400 per thana or a total of
4,000 women (10 thanas X 10 villages X 20 members X 2 times a year) in the
first year; 7,600 women (19 thanas X 10 villages X 20 members X 2 times a
year) each in the second and the third years. In all, over 20,000 women



ANNEX 9
Page 4
including women organizers will be trained during the life of the scheme.
However, the indirect impact of awakening other women of the villages
to the possibilities of improving their status and increasing their earnings
are expected to be substantial. If only one-fourth of the women covered
are motivated for family planning about 4,000 to 5,000 acceptors would
result directly from the scheme during the three years.
12.       Administration:  The PPO will be responsible for preparing the
detailed plan for the implementation of the scheme and arranging for training
of staff and production of training material with the assistance of advisers.
The existing district and thana IRDP staff and the new staff will be
responsible for the execution of the scheme and they will receive orientation
in Dacca for about two to three weeks. A six-month training will be given
to the village organizer in various trades at the thana and another three
months on the job in the village. The trainers will be full-time inspectors-
cum-trainers recruited for the scheme. Out of three months training half the
time would be devoted to train them in holding adult literacy classes and in
family planning, nutrition, home development and education. In family planning,
training assistance would be obtained from MOHPP staff at the thana level.
The assistant inspector, under the guidance of the existing IRDP project
director and deputy project officer at the thana level, would be responsible
for the training program and would obtain audiovisual material from the head-
quarters.
13.       The operation of the scheme will be supervised at the village level
by the inspectors cum trainers. After giving three months' training to the
women organizers the two inspector trainers would spend an average of eight
weeks in each village supervising and technically assisting the implementation
of the program. The PPO, assistant PPO and inspectors will make frequent
spot field checks.
14.       Internal Evaluation:  While the external evaluation of the schemes
will be conducted by the PPS at the Planning Commission the internal evalua-
tion within the Ministry would consist of regular reporting, periodic evalua-
tion and special evaluation studies that will be conducted in collaboration
with the PPD at the MOHPP.
(a) Regular Reporting: The inspector will be responsible
for monthly reports that will provide information on:
(i) the number of village organizers trained and
functioning in each of the 10 villages selected for
the scheme in the thana; (ii) the number of female
cooperative members in the villages; (iii) the number
undergoing training; (iv) the number completed training;
(v) the dropouts from the schemes and reasons for dropping
out; (vi) brief notes on marketing facilities for items
produced by the members and their financial accounts;



ANNEX 9
Page 5
and (vii) characteristics of members using contraceptives.
Copies of the report will be sent through the district
office to the headquarters in Dacca, and to the PPD.
(b) Periodic Evaluation: The following assessment will be
made through periodic evaluation:
(i) Effectiveness of training of village organizers by
measuring their knowledge of implementation of
adult literacy scheme, knowledge of family planning,
and levels of knowledge and skills relating to the
trades and general education.  This can be done
through the application of simple tests before and
after the training.
(ii) Effectiveness of training given by village organizers
to cooperative members by measuring levels of
literacy and skills, and knowledge of family planning,
before and after training.  The inspectors should also
observe the members performing the functions and report
the levels of their skills after the training. They
should also prepare a brief report on the credit
facilities made available to the members for the purchase
of equipment, and on the maintenance of the equipment.
(iii) Percentage of the number and categories of persons
trained and functioning compared to the targets.
(c) Special Studies: Funds would be provided to the MLGRDC by the
PPD for the following special studies:
(i) Half-yearly study of the increase in contraceptive
practice among the participants in the scheme
and in the villages and thanas under this scheme
in comparison to that in other villages in the
same thanas and among different thanas.
(ii) Half-yearly study of a comparative analysis of
performance of total schemes in different thanas
and causes of differentials.
(iii) Other studies as decided by the Director of IRDP
or by the PPO.
15.       Cost:  The total. cost of the scheme is estimated at USA371,6fl.
The dlctails are gpven in the table at the end of this annex.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
IV. Use of Model Farmers and Cooperative Managers
16.       Objective:  To create an understanding of population problems and
a sense of commitment for the population planning program among village
leaders to use them as agents of change. The model farmers and cooperative
managers are usually the enterprising and well-respected village members.
Their approach and ideas would be easily acceptable. Also in a male-dominated
society like Bangladesh the change in opinion and attitude of men is
essential for the success of the program.
17.       Content:  The model farmers and cooperative managers will be given
talks on the need for population planning, ways and means of family limita-
tion, and communication techniques at the weekly sessions at TTDC for about
three months. They in turn will arrange group sessions of cooperative
members to discuss the problems. The model farmers and cooperative managers
will be given a small amount (Tk. 5) per meeting on the basis of reports
submitted by them. At the end of the year the best model farmer in the thana,
judged by the sale of contraceptives and by other studies, would be given
the price of an agricultural implement costing about Tk. 2,500. The coopera-
tive managers will also be provided with a radio set to attract the people
to the meetings and provide an audience for the radio programs on the subject
prepared by a special cell to be established at Radio Bangladesh. The
maintenance of the radio would be charged to the profits of the cooperatives
to ensure proper use of the radio. The cooperative manager will have supplies
of contraceptives for distribution.
18.       Coverage:  The program will cover all the villages in 19 thanas -
one in each district. These thanas would be the same as those selected
for the women's functional literacy program. Ten thanas (four concentrated
thanas and six others) will be initiated in the scheme in the first year
and in the rest of the nine thanas in the second year.
19.       Expected Results:  About 3,800 model farmers and cooperative
managers from 1,900 villages (100 villages per thana X 19) will receive
training and orientation in population problems. If a model farmer and
cooperative manager jointly cover 7 persons of reproductive ages a week in
their weekly meetings and through radio programs, about 638,000 are expected
to be covered per year under this scheme when the 1,900 villages are in
full operation, in addition to 33,600 in the first year when only 1,000 vil-
lages would be covered. If 10% of these accept family planning, the number
of new acceptors would be about 54,000 per year or 2.8 per month per village.
20.       Administration:  The PPO will be responsible for preparing the
detailed plan for the implementation of the scheme and arrange for training
of staff and production of training material with the assistance of advisers.
The existing IRDP district and thana staff and the new staff recruited for



ANEX 9
Page 7
the scheme would first be given orientation and training at Dacca. They would
also visit the Comilla Academy of Rural Development for orientation. After
finishing the training they would help in drawing up the courses for three
months or about 90 hours for training of model farmers and cooperative managers
in population problems and programs. In actual training of model farmers
and cooperative managers the thana staff would obtain technical support from
the staff of the Ministry of Health and Population Planning. The training
material and audiovisual aid would be supplied by the headquarters. The
deputy thana PPO and the assistant inspector would be largely responsible
for supervisory field visits. They are expected to visit every village every
three months.
21.       Internal Evaluation:  While the external evaluation of the schemes
will be conducted by the PPS at the Planning Commission (See Annexes 18 and
19) the internal evaluation within the Ministry would consist of regular
reporting, periodic evaluation and special evaluation studies in collabora-
tion with the PPD at the MOHPP.
(a) Regular Reporting: The cooperative managers will
prepare simple monthly reports at the village level
which are handed over to the assistant inspector
when they visit thanas for weekly meetings. The
defaulters will be contacted by the assistant
inspector to obtain the reports due. The cooperative
managers will maintain a simple stock and an issue
registry for contraceptives. They would report monthly
on (a) contraceptives sold, (b) number of persons to
whom sold, (c) number of group meetings held, jointly
with model farmers, for cooperative members, (d) the
number attended, (e) the number of audience at the
radio program, and (f) impressions of the audience'
of family planning programs. At the thana level, a
monthly report will be prepared, incorporating the
above information for each village and giving the
number of cooperative managers and model farmers trained,
and the number still active. Copies of the report will
be sent through the district office to the headquarters,
and to the PPD. The health inspector will also give a
brief report on the use of radios.
(b) Periodic Evaluation: The following assessment will
be made through periodic evaluation:
(i) Effectiveness of training: The deputy thana PPO
and the assistant inspector will observe group
discussions organized by the cooperative managers
and farmers and send reports to headquarters
on the adequacy of knowledge of the managers and
model farmers in tackling questions raised in the
groups and on problems of keeping their interest alive.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
(c) Special Studies: Funds would be provided to the MLGRDC
by the PPD for the following special studies:
(i) Number of the two categories of persons trained
in the scheme and still active compared to the
targets.
(ii) Half-yearly comparison of family planning
acceptors within the scheme, with the cor-
responding numbers in thanas without the scheme.
(Copies of monthly reports for different thanas
on acceptors can be obtained from thana health
center or the MOHPP.)
22.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$956,460 for
about three years. The details are given in the table at the end of this annex.
V. Staff and Other Requirements for Both Schemes
23.       Personnel:
(a) One population program officer (PPO) with supporting
office staff (typist, peon) at the headquarters to
be responsible for detailed designing, implementation
and supervision of both the pilot schemes. Study
tour abroad for the PPO.
(b) An adviser for 12 man-months to assist the PPD.
(c) One assistant population program officer specifically
responsible for the women's program- for training
of field staff, production of material and marketing
of products.
(d) One deputy thana PPO in each thana to assist the
existing thana project officer in implementation
of the schemes.
(e) Two inspector-cum-trainers in each pilot thana
mainly for training the women's organizers and field
supervision.
(f) One assistant inspector-cum-trainer mainly for
training of model farmers and cooperative managers
and field supervision.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
(g) Two statistical assistants for the Evaluation Unit
of the IRDP.
(h) Typist and peon for headquarters.
(i) Driver-cum-projector operators for vehicles-- one
for each pilot thana.
24.       Vehicles and Equipment:
(a) One four-wheel drive vehicle in each of the pilot
thanas to carry movie projectors for audiovisual
support to group talks at model farmers andwomen's
program meetings and one for headquarters for field
supervision.
(b) One motion picture projector for each thana for
showing various films on population problems,
women's status in other countries, and the general
situation in rural areas.
(c) Two sewing machines and other equipment for each thana
for training the women's organizers.
(d) One bicycle for each of the assistant inspector-
cum-trainers for field visits.
(e) One radio with loudspeaker and heavy cabinet for
each village group meeting to listen to the special
broadcasts on population problems.
(f) Office equipment and furniture at the thana level.
(g) Two calculators for the Evaluation Unit.
25.       Operating Costs.  Allowances for trainers and honoraria for part-
time trainers in both the schemes, raw material for the women's training
program, printing and publication and Internal evaluation of the two schemes.
VI. Work Schedule
26.  (a)  Appointment of population program officer (PPO)   March 1975
(b)  Completion of local and foreign training of PPO   July 1975
(c)  Order of equipment and vehicles                      July 1975



A.lNm X  9
Page 10
(d)  Visit of the adviser                                 July 1975
(e) Appointment of assistant population program
officer                                              Aug. 1975
(f) Appointment of thana level schemes staff
in 10 thanas                                         Aug. 1975
(g) Orientation of IRDP project officers in
10 thanas                                            Aug. 1975
(h) Training of thana level schemes staff in
10 thanas                                            Aug. 1975
(i)  Selection of women's organizers for training
in thanas                                            Sept. 1975
(j) Training of model farmers and cooperative
managers in 10 thanas                                Sept. 1975
(k)  Initiation of village level program                  Dec. 1975
(1)  Review of the schemes in the light of
evaluation of 10 thanas                              Dec. 1976
(m)  Steps f-l in the rest of the nine thanas             Jan. - Feb. 1977
(n) Review in the light of evaluation of schemes
in nine new and ten old thanas                       Dec. 1977
(o)  Review of schemes in all nineteen thanas             Dec. 1978



PAgeM I
BAMGLADESN
POFtLATJON PROJECTS
COST ESTIMATES OF ThE POPULATION PROGRAM OF THE
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERMENT. RURAL DEVELOPMENT  AND COOPERATIVES
Basis of Estimation                                           U. S. S
and Phasing  1/7778 1975-76            1976-77     1977         1978-79       Local         Foreign       Total
A. OFFICE OF THE POPULATION PROGRAM OFFICER (PPO)
1. Vehicles
1 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles for Headquarters   $5700 each                   5,700                                                              5,700         5,700
19 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles for Thanas (with
electric generators)       $5900 each (10-9)         59,000       53,100                                              112.100       112.100
Sub-total                                                         64,700        53,100                                              117,800       117,800
Contingencies*                                                      3.600        8.100                                                11.700       11.700
Total - Vehicles                                                   68,300       61,200                                              129,500       129,500
2. Special Equipment
1 Typewriter                                      $400 each                   400                                                                400           400
19 1bm  Motion Picture Projector (with
accessories)               $1500 each (10-9)         15,000      13,500                                                 28.500       28.500
Sub-total                                                          15,400      13,500                                                 28,900       28,900
Contingencies                                                         800       2.000                                                  2.800        2J800
Total - Special Equipment                                          16,200      15,500                                                31,700        31,700
3. Technical Assistance
a. Rural Development Program Adviser             12m                       40,000                                                             40,000        40,000
b. Fellowship of Population Program Officers   3ra
Total - Technical Assistance                                       44,000                                                            44,000        44,000
4. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
1 Population Program Officer                  TK750-75-1300              1,600        1,700       1,900          350          5,550                      5,550
1 Assistant Population Program Officer        TK450-35-750                 600          900       1,000                       2,500                       2,500
19 Deputy Thana Population Program Officers TK375-25-600(10-19-19)   7,000           13,900      14,940                      35,840                      35,840
19 Drivers cum Operators                      TK300-20-500 (10-19-19)  5,700        11,300       12,000                      29,000                     29,000
1 Steno Typist                                TK220-15-400                 400          450         480                       1,330                       1,330
1 Driver                                      TK140-7-250                  270          280          290                        840                         840
1 Messenger/Peon                              TK80-3-110                   150          160         170          350            480                         480
Sub-total                                                          15,720      28,690       30,780          350         75,540                     75,540
257. Salary Adjustment                                             3.930        7.170        7,695           50         18.845                     18 845
Sub-total                                                          19,650      35,860       38,475          400         94,385                     94,385
Contingencies                                                         550       2.640        2.825           _62015                                 6,015
Total - Salaries                                                   20,200      38,500       41,300          400        100,400                    100,400
b. Operating Cost
Vehicle Maintenance                           TKlOOOpm/pv(11-20-20)   17,500         31,800      31,800                      81,100                      81,100
Office Supplies                               Est.                       2,000        1,000        1,000                      4,000                       4,000
Orientation at BARD, Comilla, 19 Deputy
Population Program Officers                 TO5/trainee (10-9)           70           60                                     130                         130
Sub-total                                                          19,570      32,860       32,800                      85,230                     85,230
Contingencies                                                       1,030       4.940        7.800                      13,770                     13.770
Total - Operating Cost                                             20,600      37,800       40,600                      99,000                     99,000
Total - Incremental Recurrent Cost                                40,800       76,300       81,900          400        199,400                    199,400
TOTAL - OFFICE OF POPULATION PROGRAM
OFFICER                                                  169.300      153,000       81,900          400       199_400       205,200       404,600
E. RURAL WQIEN'S FUNCTIONAL LITERACY PROGRAM
1. Special Equipment
Thana Level
38 Sewing Machines                                $100 ea.2 per Thana
(20-18)                   2,000        1,800                                                 3,800         3,800
19 Cpmplete sets of equipment for 9 other        TY7950 ea.(10-9) see
trades -1                                    Rehab. for list           10,500        9,500                                  20,000                      20,000
Village Level
3S0 Sewing machines                               2 per village(200-180)
$100 each                20,000       18,000                                                38,000        38,000
190 sets of equipment for other trades            1 set per village;
TK800 average/trade      10.600        9,500                                  20,100                      20.100
Sub-Total                                                          43,100      38,800                                   40,100        41, 800       81,900
Contingencies                                                       2A400       5.900                                    4,100         4.200       8A300
Total - Special Equipment                                          45,500      44,700                                   44,200        46,000        90,200
2. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
38 Inspectors/Trainers                       TK310-20-500(20-38-38)  11,800         23,220      24,740                      59,760                      59,760
Salary Adjustment                                                   2.950       5,805        6.185                      14.940                      14 940
Sub-Total                                                          14,750      29,025       30,925                      74,700                      74,700
Contingencies                                                         450        2.175       3,475                       6,100                       6,100
Total - Salaries                                                   15,200      31,200       34,400                      80,800                      80,800
Contingencies refer tI  expected price escalation.
mm = man-months
p.m. = per  onoth
pn.. = per vehicle
-/ Equipment for vocational -raining listed separately.
./ Figures iti brackets refer to number ot items, posts, or thanas in each year during the three-year period.
-ARD - Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development



Page 12
TNISTRY OP LOCAL GOVERNMENT. RURAL DEVLOPEffENT  A,TD COOPERATIVES
Basis of Esti=ation                                                       U. S. $
and Phasing                           1975-76      1976-77      1977-78      1978-79       Local         Paorei,n       Total
b. Operating Cost
Travel and Per Dims Allqances for 'r.einers
for Supervision Trips A/                        TK50/wk; TKSOxlOwks a 50 teachers  3,300           6,300        6,300                      15,900                        15,900
Honoraria for Part-time Teachers at Thanas         T1I00/mo.;5/thana/3rss.(50-45)        2,000        1,800                                    3,800                        3,800
Ho.nrarie for Trainees                             Tk9O/3msn. 50 trainees/thana
(500-450)      6,000        5,400                                   11,400                       11,400
H.osorria for HW-e Organizers kl                   1k32/iso. (T18 to he financed from
honoraria  for    qi n  All -anisers    fb/   3fees)                                     9,500       33,800       48,300                      91,600                       91,600
Travel and Per Diem Allowances for 38
Inspectors                                      TK2000 per thsna (10-19)               2,700       5,000         5,000                      12,700                       12,700
Raw Yaterials for Thanas and Villages c/           TK6780(10-9); TK678/trade(100-90) 27,000          24,300                                   51,300                       51,300
Orientation at BARD, Comsilla, 38 Inspectors/
Trainees                                        TK50/trainee (20-18)                     130          120                                      250                          250
Sub-Total                                                                      50,630       76,720       59,600                     186,950                      186,950
Contingencies                                                                   1.370        S.680        6,600                      13.650                        13,650
Total - operating Cost                                                         52,000       82,400       66,Z00                     200,600                       200,600
TOTAL - locremental Recurrent Cost                                             67,200      113,600      100,600                     281,400                      281,400
TOTAL - RURAL WAIEI' S FUNCTIONAL
LITERACY PROGRAM                                                     112 700      158.300      100,600                     35600           600           371600
C. USE OF MODEL FARfERS AND0 COOPERATIVE MANAGERS
1. Vehicles
19 Bicycles (icluding spare parts)                    $100 each (10-9)                      1,000          900                                                  1,900          1,900
Cont.ngencies                                                                      60          100                                                     160            160
Total - Vehicles                                                                1,060        1,000                                                  2,060           2,060
2. Special Equiproent
1900 Radios/Loudspeakers/Security Cabinets A/         $350 each (1,000-900)               350,000     315,000                                                 665,000        665,000
Contingencies                                                                  19.200       47,800                                                 67.000          67A000
Total - Special Equipment                                                     369,200      362,800                                                732,000         732,000
3. Incremental Recurrent Cost
s. Salary Support
19 Assistant Inspectrs/Trainers                   TK250-20-500                          4,800         9,470      10,160                       24,430                       24,430
Salary Adjustment                                                               1.200        2.370        2540                        6.110                         6,110
Sub-total                                                                       6,000       11,840       12,700                      30,540                       30,540
Contingencies                                                                     200          860        1,400                      2.460                          2,460
Total - Salaries                                                                6,200       12,700       14,100                      33,000                       33,000
b. Operating Cost
Vehicle Maintenance                                TK100 per ynear/pcr vehicle             130          250          250                         630                           630
Honoraria to Managers and Faroern for              TK5 a 24 weeks (2,000-3,800-
Arranging Meetings                                                       3,800)      31,800       60,400        60,400                     152,600                      152,600
Orientation at BARD, Cosilla, 19 Assistant
Inspectors                                      TK50 (10-9)                               70           60                                      130                          130
Printing and Publications                         TKl,Ooo p.a./thana (10-19-19)          1,300        2,500        2,500                       6,300                        6,300
Conference Awards                                 Tk2,500 p.a./thana (10-19-19)          3.300        6.300        6,30Q                      15.900                       15,900
Sub-total                                                                      36,600       69,510       69,450                     175,560                      175,560
Contingencies                                                                   1.000        5.090        7.750                      13.840                        13,84
Total - Operating Cost                                                         37,600       74,600       77,200                     189,400                      189,400
TOTAL - Incremental Recurrent Cost                                             43,800       87,300       91,300                     222,400                      222,400
TOTAL - USE OF MODEL FA8MERS                                                  414,060      451,100       91.300                     222.400       734,060        956,460
a!  Ech t-ruser will visit 1 village for 1 week; total visits per trainer _ 10 villages, 10 weeks.
1st year: 50 taso--       10 wik   x TK50; 2nd Year: 95 o 10  x 50; 3rd Year:  95 a 10  x 50.
b/  Honoraria - TK140, TK    financed by Goverment; TK2 froi   enrollment fees, assuning TK2/mo./trainee,
20 trainees  fotr :-rrc   5er orjan-ir).
1st year:  125 organizers x 9 inns x TK32 - TK36,000; 125 organizers x 6 moe x TK32 - TA24,000; 125 organizera
x 3 eos Y TK32    1 TK12,000 or total $9,500.
2nd yecr:  500 organizers r 12 mnos x TK32 * TK192,000; 110 organizers x 9 ios x TX32 - TK3i,680, 110
110 organizers x 6 moo r TK32 - TK21,120; 110 organizers x 3 sos x TK32 - TK10,560 or total $33,800.
3rd year:  950 organizers r 12 moe - $48,300.
c/ Ras materials for villages are for 6 monthe'supply only. Thereafter, to be financed from proceeds of
sale of produced items.
dy  Radios to be saint.sned by the community from the cooperative society fund.



ANEEX 9
Page 13
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVER0=NT. RURAL DEVELOPItENT. AND COOPERATIVES
Basis of Esti=ation                                                 U. S. $
and Phasing                        1975-76      1976-77     1977-78     1978-79      Local         Foreign       Total
D. INTERNAL EVALUATION
1. Special Euuipmest
2 Hand Calculators                                                                       800                                                             800            800
Contingencies                                                                     -
Total - Special Equipment                                                         800
2. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support                                                                                              10
2 Statistical Assistants                           TR210-10-400                          800         900       1,OOO                      2,700
Salary Adj.s.tnt                                                                 200          230         250                        680                        680
Shb-total                                                                      1 000        1,130       1,250                      3,380                      3,380
Cantingencies                                                                                  70         150                        220                        220
Total - Salary Support                                                          1,000       1,200       1,400                      3,600                      3,600
b. Operating Cost
Office Supplies                                    Est.                                  200         200         200                        600                         600
Special Studies                                                                       3OO0 3.000               3.9.000
Total - Operating Cost                                                          3,200       3,200       3,200                     13,200                     13,200
Total - Incre=ental Recurrent Cost                                             4,200        4,400       4,600
TOTAL - INTERNAL EVALUATION                                                    5.0         40             ,600 13800                                         140U0
Totals
Vehicles                                                                              65,700      54,000                                             119,700       119,700
Special Equip=ent                                                                   409,300      367,300                                 40,100      736,500       776,600
Technical Assistance                                                                  44,000                                                          44,000        44,000
T-c-emostal Recurrent Cost                                                           151,400     260,145     248,400         400        660,345                    660,345
Contingencies                                                                         30.660      85,355      30.000                     60 155       85,860       146.015
TOTAL                                                                        701.060      766.800     278,400         400        760.600      986.060     1.746,660



ADNa1INSTRATION AND SUPERVISION OF THE PILOT SCHEMES IN THE
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT, RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATIVES
(Headquarters)
Director General
Population Program Officer*
Assistant Population Program Officer*
(Various Regions)
(District and Thana)
District Project Director
Thana Project Officer              ]
Deputy Thana Population Program Officer*
F
Assistant Inspectors *
Inspectors * Cum Trainers and                                  Model Farmers and Cooperative Managers
Part-Time Trade Instructors (Womens Program)                          (2 per Village in each Thana-100 Villages)
Village Organizers (5 per 10 Villages)
in each Thana
Weekly Meetings of Cooperative Members
on Population Problem
and
Radio Listening Groups at Rural Develop-
Village Functional Literacy Center                                   ment and Family Planning Hour
(20 Women per Batch)
* Additional staff for the projects, others are regular staff for IRDP programs.
Line and Supervisory Relationship.
World Bank-9406



ANNEx 9
Appendix I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of References
Population Program Officer
1.        The population program officer (PPO) will be responsible for finding
ways to integrate population planning programs in the Ministry's ongoing
activities and for the implementation of the pilot schemes particularly
for:
(a) Keeping a liaison with the PPD and PPS;
(b) Submitting quarterly reports to the PPD;
(c) Arranging for the training/orientation program of
the staff of the scheme;
(d) Arranging for internal evaluation of the scheme
analysis of routine data and feedback of the
results of evaluation to the staff of the scheme
and to the Director-General of IRDP;
(e) Receiving the results of evaluation from and
providing proper feedback to the staff of the
scheme;
(f) Making suitable modification in the scheme in the
light of evaluation results;
(g) Ensuring effective supervision of the scheme and
making frequent field visits (the PPO should be
in the field for at least three-fourths of the
time); and
(h) Ensuring the marketing of the products and proper
allocation of sale of proceeds to the cooperatives
and its members.



ANNEX 9
Appendix I
Page 2
Qualifications
2.        Preferably a senior civil servant from the ministry concerned.
Adviser
(a) To assist the population planning officer in:
(1) detailed preparation of the pilot scheme
for the model farmers and cooperative managers
and women's functional literacy programs;
(ii) training and orientation of field personnel;
(iii) making improvements in the operation of the two
schemes;
(iv) establishment of a system of internal
evaluation;
(v)  setting up indices for external and internal
evaluations;
(vi) reviewing the schemes before the end of assignment
and making recommendations for further improvement.
Qualifications
3.        An expert of established reputation in the field of rural
development with specialization in communication techniques in population
programs.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Population Program of the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
1.        This annex examines (a) the ongoing programs of the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare within which the population program would be
incorporated and (b) the specific schemes designed for incorporating the
population program in the relevant activities - their organization, content,
coverage, administration, evaluation, facilities and work schedule.
I. Ongoing Program
2.        The Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MLSW) is preparing plans
for rural social service (RSS) schemes through its Directorate of Social
Welfare. The basic idea in social service schemes of the Ministry is to
encourage formation of voluntary groups for the provision of social services
and to support these groups through locally-recruited government social
welfare workers. At the headquarters the RSS will be headed by a Deputy
Director of Social Welfare who will have two Assistant Directors. At the
thana level the RSS will be headed by a social welfare officer. The social
welfare officer will have eight male and eight female village social workers
(two for each union). The main emphasis of the social service program is on
landless laborers or those with uneconomic holdings. About 20% of the rural
population is landless and another 42% of families have land of less than
one acre.
3.        The Directorate of Labor under the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare has about eighteen labor welfare centers in industrial areas.
Each labor welfare center has provision for medical services, adult educa-
tion, recreational facilities and counselling of workers and their families.
A national family planning seminar organized in November 1972 jointly by the
Government and WHO recognized industrial workers as a special target group
and recommended that the national family planning program should be strength-
ened through coordination with other development programs including 'labor
organizations in industry'. In implementation of this recommendation, a
National Committee for Population Planning in the labor sector was established
in February 1973 under the chairmanship of the Director of Labor. It has as
its members representatives of the trade unions, the employers' organizations
and the National Family Planning Board. Also courses in population were



ANNEX 10
Page   2
introduced at the Industrial Relations Institute at Tongi.  This Institute
provides an excellent opportunity to bring management, trade unions and
government officials together. This Committee in association with the
International Labor Organization (ILO) and with the financial assistance of
the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) conducted another
national labor/management seminar on population and family planning in the
organized sector in July 1973. The seminar strongly endorsed the need for
involving the labor ministry, employers and workers in the national family
planning program. The UNFPA is supporting (a) the introduction of a family
planning service in two labor welfare centers and, (b) strengthening of
population courses at the Industrial Relation Institute through technical
assistance and fellowships.
4.        The National Rehabilitation Board, a semi-autonomous body under
the MLSW, has been successful in providing vocational training and establishing
production centers for war victims. It now intends to expand its activities
to reach all women in rural areas. One of the program strategies adopted by
the Board is to render vocational training to the poor illiterate and semi-
literate women and subsequently rehabilitate them economically in their
respective environments with needed skills for earning their living. By now
the Board has organized 32 vocational training centers all over Bangladesh
and a total of nearly 6,000 women have been given such training. The Board
at present gives about eight weeks of training in family planning as part
of the program. A judge of the Supreme Court is the Chairman of the Board.
Other members include influential women leaders and professionals. The Board
has been able to cover a substantial portion of the recurring cost from the
sale proceeds of goods produced by the women workers.
5.        The project includes schemes to utilize the above described
structure for population programs through the:
a.   formation of mothers' clubs under the Directorate of Social
Welfare for family planning motivation as a part of rural
social services program;
b.   introduction of the population program for organized labor at
labor welfare centers and
c.   support of the vocational training of rural women through
the National Rehabilitation Board to cover a large number
of women for family planning motivation.
II. Rural Mothers' Clubs
6.        Objective:  To bring together currently married women who are
within the reproductive ages together (a) for gainful economic activity
through training in various trades and (b) for education in various aspects
of social life including population and family planning.



ANNEX 1 0
Page   3
7.        Organization:  At the headquarters a population program officer
(PPO) at the level of Deputy Director, specializing in home economics, would
be attached to the office of the Director, Social Welfare and would be mainly
resnonsible for the implementation of the program. (The terms of reference
are given in Appendix I.) The PPO will receive three months training/orienta-
tion abroad in countries where such programs have been succssful (e.g., Korea)
and in universities famous for research in communication. An adviser will
be provided to assist the PPO (the terms of reference are given in Appendix
I.) At the thana level existing social welfare officers will be responsible
for the implementation of the program with the help of female village social
workers. At the village level the elected officers of the Club would help
in the .rmplementation of the program. Training in various trades and educa-
tion including literacy, family planning and home development would be given
by specially appointed instructors (see organization chart 9407 at the end
of this annex).
8.        Contents:  Five villages from each of the eight unions in a thana
will be selected for the formation of mothers' clubs. The Government village
social worker would help in organizing the mothers' clubs. The clubs'
activities will include a literacy program, family planning education, home
economics (nutrition, fruit preservation, etc.), a recreational program and
vocational training in poultry raising, garment making, production of socks
and vests, carpet weaving, bamboo goods, etc. The education and training
will be rendered through specially-appointed instructors (2 instructors per
village) who would visit each village for three months. After six months of
training the club members will continue to use the clubs' equipment for the
production of goods. The equipment could be used by them during the time
of the day it is not used for training. The Ministry will make arrangements
for marketing the product when produced on a large scale. All profits will
be given to the producer except a small percentage of it that will be retained
by the village social worker (or elected secretary of the club) for replace-
ment of equipment. These clubs will also be used for the distribution of
conventional methods of contraception. The elected secretary of each club
will be responsible for such distribution and maintenance of records.
9.        Coverage:  One thana in each district (19) would be covered during
the three-year implementation period. In the first year only ten thanas
(four concentrated thanas and 6 others) will be selected. In the second year
another nine thanas will be included. The scheme will be modified in the
light of earlier experiences in the ten thanas. Five villages from each of
the eight unions in a thana will be selected for the formation of mothers'
clubs or 40 villages in each thana. Therefore, about 760 villages will be
covered by the scheme.
10.       Expected Results:  In all, 760 mothers' clubs - one in each village
or 40 per thana - will be formed. If, at a minimum, each club has ten
members, in the first year it is expected that 4,000 females from 400 clubs



ANNEX I 0
Page 4
will be educated and trained in each six-month period, thus totaling 8,000
for the year. In the second and third years with all 760 clubs in operation,
about 15,200 women would be trained annually. Thus about 38,400 women will
be covered by the program in the three years. If one-fourth of these women
accept family planning the number of new acceptors would be about 8,000 to
9,000 during the three years. Further, a change in attitudes of these women
towards family size will have an impact on others and set a multiplier effect.
11.       Administration:  The population program officer will be respon-
sible for working out the details of implementation of the program with
the help of the adviser. The existing social welfare officers will receive
orientation in the population program at Dacca for two to three weeks. Also
four-week training courses will be organized, by the PPO, for village social
workers in various aspects of population problems, communication techniques
and the organization of the scheme. The PPO will draw up the training courses
and invite guest lecturers from the Ministry of Health and Population Planning,
the Family Planning Association, the Research Institute, Comilla Academy, etc.
These courses will be introduced later as a part of the training program
at the Social Welfare In-service Training Center. The female and male
village social workers at the union level will assist in the formation of
clubs, election-of officers and will directly supervise the activities
of the clubs in five villages. Further, the social welfare officers from
thana level and PPOs from headquarters will make frequent visits for super-
vision of the scheme. Two trade instructors for each union will give
necessary training and hold literacy classes.
12.       Evaluations:  While the external evaluation of the schemes will be
conducted by the PPS at the Planning Commission the internal evaluation
within the Ministry would consist of regular reporting, periodic evaluation
and special evaluation studies in collaboration with the PPD at the MOHPP.
a.   Regular Reporting:  The trade instructors will prepare
monthly repworts for each village of the union in which they
work, giving information on: (i) number of mothers' clubs
formed, (ii) membership of the clubs, (iii) number of
members fully trained for various vocations and number of
dropouts and reasons for same, (iv) of the active members,
number following vocations in which they were trained, (v)
for the number not following, reasons; (vi) frequency of
meetings of clubs, (vii) brief review of functions of the
club, (viii) number of members who learned to read and write,
({x) number of contraceptives distributed. At the thana
level, the social welfare officer will add information on
the number of trade supervisors in position in each union.
Ile will also prepare a brief report on the maintenance
and use of the equipment given to clubs and marketing
facilities created for the items produced. Reports
will be relayed from union to thana to district and
to headquarters and the Inspection Directorate.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
b.   Periodic Evaluation:  The following assessments will be
made through the periodic evaluations:
(a) Effectiveness of the training given to social welfare
officers, trade inspectors and village social workers,
with the help of before- and after-training tests of
their knowledge and skills in the fields in which they
are trained;
(b) Percentage of the various.categories of persons specially
trained, and clubs formed as compared to targets;
(c) Of the persons trained, percentage of persons actively
participating, by social and economic classification of
persons, and by vocations followed; and
(d) Special Studies: Funds. would be provided to the MLSW by
the PPD for the following special studies:
{i) Increase in contraceptive practice of contraception
among the village social workers and members of
the clubs; in relation to the corresponding figures
for the other village, in the thana; and
(ii) The socio-economic effects of the clubs.
Staff and Other Requirements
13.       Personnel
(a) A population program officer (home economist) to plan
the activities, arrange for training of personnel,
supervise the overall program and arrange for internal
evaluation. Study tour abroad for the PPO;
(b) Adviser for six man-months to assist the population
program officer;
(c)  Trade instructors - two trade instructors per union
(8 unions in a thana) in the 19 selected districts
or 304 trade instructors;
(d) One statistician and two statistical assistants for
routine evaluation;
(e) Stenographer;
(f) Messenger for the head office and driver/projectionists
(5) for the vehicles in four regions and headouarters;



ANNEX 10
Page 6
14.       Vehicles and Equipment
(a) One four-wheel drive vehicle in each of the four regions
-and one at headcuarters for supervision and carrying the
audiovisual equipment to different thanas.for training
support and for supervision.
(b) One incubator per union (152) for demonstration and
training in poultry.
(c) Two sewing machines per motlhers' club to teach garment
marking.      -
(d)  One grinding machine per mothers' club (760) to teach
food processing.
(e) Four motion picture projectors (one in each region) and
19 slide projectors (one in each thana) for audiovisual
support for training of workers and talks on population
problems at mothers' clubs.
(f)  Two Calculators for evaluation.
15.       Operating Costs:  Provision is made for maintenance and running
expense of vehicles, production of training material, organization of
seminars, conferences and internal evaluation of the scheme.
16.      Wlork Schedule:
(a)  Appointment of population program officer            March 1975
(b)  Training of population program officer               July 1975
(c)  Order of equipment and vehicles                      July 1975
(d)  Visit of the adviser                                 July 1975
(e) Appointment of trade instructors in 10 thanas
(4 concentrated and six others)                     Aug. 1975
(f) Orientation of thana social welfare officers
of ten thanas.                                       Aug. 1q75
(g)  Training of village social workers of ten thanas  Sept. 1975
(h)  Formation.of 400 mothers' clubs                      Oct. 1975



ANNEX 10
Page 7
(i)  Review of strategy based on the
evaluation of first ten thanas;                     Dec. 1976
(j)  Steps (e) and (h) above for the rest of nine        Jan.
thanas;                                             Feb. 1977
(k)  Review of the mothers' club activities in nine new
and ten old thanas in the light of evaluation
results; and                                        Jan. 1977
(1)  Review of activities in all nineteen thanas based on
evaluation results.                                 Dec. 1978
16.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$707,000
for about three years.  The details are given in the table at the end of
this annex.
III. PoEulation Program for Organized Labor at Labor Welfare Centers
17.       Objectives:  To expand facilities in the three labor welfare centers
covering organized laborers and their families to: (a) provide family
planning services through its clinics and (b) or educate and motivate the
workers and their families for accepting the small family-size norm.
18.       Organization:  A Population Program Officer (PPO) at the level of a
Deputy Director will be responsible for implementation of the scheme. He will
be attached to the Office of the Director of Labor. (The terms of reference
for the PPO are given in Appendix I.) The PPO will be trained abroad for
three months in countries with population programs for organized labor and
in institutes dealing with family planning communications research. The
National Committee for Population Planning in the Ministry of Labor will act
as Advisory Committee for this scheme. The Committee would review the scheme
and assist in obtaining adequate cooperation and support from different
sections of labor organization. At the labor welfare center the medical
officer would be in charge of the program.  Advisory services for six man-
months are provided to assist in formation of plans and training of personnel.
19.       Contents:  The existing medical officer in the centers will deliver
family planning services and advise the workers and their families on
contraception while they visit the clinics. Two family planning visitors
will be assigned to assist the medical officer and to talk to the patients.
Also, six male and six female social welfare workers in each center would
be responsible for face-to-face motivation and for home visiting in and around
the area and in distant villages where workers' families reside. Influential
labor leaders will be requested to speak in various meetings on the popula-
tion problem.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 8
20.       Coverage:  One labor welfare center in each of the three industrial
areas, namely Chittagong, Khulna and Bogra would be covered. These centers
are for labor engaged in cement, glass and steel factories, the paper mill,
oil refinery and dock work at Chittagong, and in the shipyard, paper mill,
jute mill and newsprint work at Khulna and in ceramics and cotton factories
at Bogra.
21.       Expected Results:  The scheme is likely to cover a population
of 50,000 in these industrial belts, of which about 90% is stated to be in the
reproductive ages. If about 50% accept family planning practices, the number
of new acceptors would be over 20,000 during the three-year period. The
scheme, which provides for contacting the families as well, is expected to
have a wider effect in the rural areas where a large proportion of the workers'
families reside.
22.       Administration;  The population program officer, with the assist-
ance of the adviser, will be responsible for the detailed preparation of
the scheme. The training program for medical, paramedical staff and field
motivators in the delivery of family planning service techniques of communica-
tion and motivation, would be arranged by the PPO at Dacca for 2-3 weeks.
He would obtain assistance from the Industrial Relations Institute, the
Family Planning Association and the Ministry of Health and Population Planning.
The PPO will closely supervise the work of the motivators and follow-up the
work at the welfare center clinics. The clerk in each center will keep the
clinic records.
23.        Evaluations:          While the external evaluation of the schemes
will be conducted by the PPS at the Planning Commission the internal evaluation
within the Ministry would consist of regular reporting, periodic evaluation
and special evaluation studies in collaboration with the PPD at the MOHPP.
(a) Regular Reporting: The clinics will maintain some general
clinic records including client and acceptor characteristic
forms, and the form for the monthly reporton performance
as in the ongoing family planning program of the MOHPP in
urban areas. The paramedical persons at the clinics will
prepare the monthly reports, by area covered. Copies of
monthly reports, together with copies of the acceptors'
characteristic forms will be sent to the Directorate of
Labor and the PPD.
(b) Periodic Evaluation: The following assessment will be made
through periodic evaluation: (i) monthly rate of new
acceptors per 1,000 population or 100 eligible couples to be
covered (both estimated), in the month and cumulatively,
by method and area; (ii) monthly tabulations of couples
contacted by status of acceptance (new, old or non-acceptors)
in the month and cumulatively by area; (iii) number of old
acceptors continuing old method, changed methods, or



ANNEX 10
Page 9
discontinued contraception, by method and by area;
(iv) monthly tabulations of estimated couple years of
protection, by method and by area; (v) half-yearly
tabulations of new acceptors, by characteristics and by
area and (vi) annual review of the scheme, with the
clinic staff.
c.   Special Studies:  Funds would be provided to the MLSW by
the PPD for the following special studies:
(i) periodic assessment of use-effectiveness and
extended use-effectiveness of contraceptive
methods; and
(ii) follow-up of drop-outs.
Staff and Other Requirements
25.       Personnel:  Additional personnel in the project consists of:
(a) A PPO at headquarters to assist the Director of Labor
in implementing the scheme;
(b) one adviser to assist the PPO for six man-months;
(c) Six paramedical personnel - two in each center to assist
the medical officer;
(d) Three clerks - one in each center to keep records;
(e) Twelve motivators at each center for home visiting and
face-to-face motivation of workers and their families,
plus two field workers at each center;
(f) A stenographer for headquarters; and.
(g) Four drivers, and one messenger/peon.
26.       Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Four-wheel drive vehicles - one for headquarters' staff
for supervision and meetings with workers and one at each of
the three centers for home visiting.
(b) Three sets of audiovisual equipment is provided; it would
use films provided by the PPD and the Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting; and
(c) Two hand calculators for evaluation.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 10
27.       Operating Costs;  Provision is made for honoraria to motivators
among the labor leaders, for the organization of meetings and internal
evaluation of the scheme.
28.       Work Schedule:
(a)  The appointment of a PPO;                           March 1975
(b) Completion of local and foreign training of the
PPO                                                  July 1975
(c)  Ordering equipment and vehicles;                     July 1974
(d)  Visit of the adviser;                                July 1975
(e)  Orientation of clinic medical officers;              Aug. 1975
(f)  Appointment of family planning visitors and
motivators;                                          Aug. 1975
(g)  Training of family planning visitors and
motivators;                                          Sept. 1975
(h)  Evaluation of the scheme;                            Dec. 1976
(i)  Second evaluation of the scheme; and                Dec. 1977
(j)  Third evaluation of the scheme.                     Dec. 1978
29.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$239,000.
The details are given in the table at the end of this annex.
IV. Women's Vocational Training Program
30.       Objective:  The main objectives of the schemes are (a) to motivate
working women towards the acceptance of small family size norms, (b) to
observe the difference the employment of women can make on fertility behavior,
(c) to extend the population planning message through these working women to
the community and (d) to create a large number of community leaders among
women in the areas of population planning and economic activities.
31.       Organization:  The scheme will be part of the existing organiza-
tional structure. The National Rehabilitation Board (NRB) with its headquarters
in Dacca is responsible for the overall administration of the scheme. The
Chairman of the NRB functions as its executive head. At the district and



ANNEX 10 
Page 11
thana levels local conmittees are formed and they function under the guide-
lines of NRB. On behalf of the Chairman of the Local Committees, a field
organizer and full-time qualified officer appointed by the National Board
runs the program. She is assisted by two field assistants, trainers and
accountants, etc. At the headquarters the implementing units are of four
types (a) administration and finance, (b) vocational training, (c) marketing.
A Population Program Officer at the level of Deputy Director will be
specifically appointed for the implementation of the scheme at the headquarters
(terms of references are given at the end of this annex). He will report
to the Chairman, NRB. Other additional staff for the scheme, provided on the
existing pattern, will help in the implementation at the local level.
32.       Contents:  About nine months. of training (six months at the thana
and three months at the union) will be given to the women who join the
program. The training program will include courses in adult literacy, family
planning and two trades. The vocational training will vary from jute goods
preparation, doll making, secretarial work, garment-making and knitting, etc.
Training will also be given in light agricultural work and poultry raising.
The selection of trades in each center will depend upon availability of raw
materials, prospects of local marketing of the produced goods from a given
trade, practice of the trade in the area and also availability of skilled
hands in the given trades to be utilized as resource persons in the center.
Two takas per day will be given to the trainers and trainees at the thana
level and Tk 1.50 at union level centers.
33.       Coverage:  In all, eight thanas will be covered in phases - schemes
will start in four thanas in the first year and another four thanas in the
second year. About 32 unions and 128 villages will be covered under the
scheme.
34.      EExpected Results:  In each of the eight thanas 20 trainers will
instruct 20 newly recruited women for 9 months, with one trainer responsible
to each trainee. The trainer will perform her production assignment and
train and educate the trainee assigned to her. At the union level centers
15 trainers trained from the corresponding thanas (assuming five dropouts)
will function as production workers and will train 15 rural women every three
months. The trainers turned out from the union centers will go back to their
villages and act as production workers and population educators. It is
expected that about 160 women (20 trainees X 4 thanas X 2 times a year) would
be trained in the first year and 320 each in the second and third years each
at the tlhana level. Similarly, at the union level in the first year 480
women (15 trainees X 16 unions X 2 times in the first year) will be trained,
followed by 960 (15 trainers X 16 unions X 4 times a year) in the second and
third years each. Thus, during the three-year project period about 800 will
be trained at the thana level and 2,400 at the union level or over 3,200
in all. If 10 of these 15 women trained at the union level organize the
production center in their villages and succeed in training 10 women the
number of women covered would be about 3,200 in the first year, 12,800 in the
second and third years, or 16,000 in 3 years. If about 25% of the women
covered including the union organizers accept family planning, the total
number of new acceptors may be over 2,500.



ANNEX 10
Page  12
35.       Administration:  The Population Program Officer will specifically
be responsible for the detailed preparation of the scheme. At the thana
level a field organizer and two field assistants will be responsible for
organizing the training program.  The staff of the scheme would be trained
by the present staff engaged in such work in addition to the Family Planning
Association and the Ministry of Health and Population Planning staff. The
training in family planning for eight to twelve weeks will be given by the
field staff and guest lecturers.
36.       Evaluations:  While the external evaluation of the schemes will be
conducted by the PPS at the Planning Commission, the internal evaluation
within the Ministry would consist of regular reporting, periodic evaluation
and special evaluation studies in collaboration with the PPD at the MDHPP.
(a)  Regular Reporting:  The field officers will be responsible
for monthly reports that will provide information on: (i)
numbers trained, (ii) attendance at family planning sessions,
(iii) number of contraceptives distributed and (iv) the
output of products every quarter. The report will be sent
by the chairman of the local committee to the headquarters
and the PPD.
(b) Periodic Evaluation: The following assessment will be made
through periodic evaluation: (i) effectiveness of the train-
ing given to the workers, with the help of before-and after-
training tests of their knowledge and skills in the fields
in which they are trained, (ii) percentage of the various
categories of persons specially trained as compared to targets,
(iii) of the persons trained, percentage of persons actively
participating, by social and economic classification of persons,
and by vocations followed.
(c) Special Studies: Funds would be provided to the women's
vocational training program by the PPS for the following
special studies: (i) on the increase in practice of contra-
ception among the participants in relation to the cor-
responding figures for the villages, unions and thanas
and (ii) a comparative analysis of performance of
different thanas and unions.
Staff and Other Requirements
37.       Personnel
(a) A population program officer and support staff at the headquarters;
(b) Fight field organizers, one per thana;



ANNEX 1 0
Page 13
(c)  Eight accountants and eight peons (one for each thana); and
(d) Sixteen field supervisors and sixteen guest lecturers
(two for each thana and four for the union).
38.       Vehicles and Equipment
(a) Four portable tape recorders;
(b) Equipment for training in various trades and light
agricultural practices;
(c) Two 4-wheel drive vehicles for headquarters, eight
motorcycles for the thana and 32 bicycles for the
production centers; and
(d) Office equipment.
39.       Operating Costs
(a) Maintenance of vehicles; and
(b) Allowances for trainers and trainees.
40.       Work Schedule:
(a)  Appointment of population program officer;          March 1975
(b)  Appointment of other staff;                          April 1975
(c)  Initiation of scheme in 4 thanas;                    May 1975
(d)  External evaluation of the schemes;                  Dec. 1976
(e) Initiation of the scheme in the rest of the four
thanas;                                              Jan. 1977
(f)  External evaluation of four new thanas; and          Dec. 1977
(g)  External evaluation of all eight thanas              Dec. 1978
41.       Cost
The cost of the scheme is estimated at US$496,700. The details
are given in the table at the end of this annex.



BANGLADESH                                                                                         oES g
POPULATION PROJECT
C08T ESTIMATES OF POPLI'ATION PROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL WELFARE
Basis of Eot8osatloo snd Thao0oo    1975 -76      1976 -77     1977-78   0.78.7          LoIcal        Foreign        Total
A.  MOTIHERS' Ll
1. Vehicles
I Fo-r Whe1l Drive Vehicle for Readquarters                                           5,700                                                              5,700          5,700
4 Fou-Weheel Drive Vehicles for Regions                                              22,800                                                             22,300         228,00
Sob-total                                                                   28,500                                                              28,500         285,00
C-ctinge-cies                                                                1.600                                                                *             1
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                            30,100                                                              30,100         30,100
2. Special EquiTsent
152  Incubatror                                  $100 each (80-72)                    8,000        7,200                                                15,200         15,200
1558  Se-ing 11achinea                            $100 each (814-744)                 81,400       74,400                                               155,800        155,800
760  Crind:ng Machines                          $15 each (400-360)                    6,000        5,400                                                12,400         51,400
4  16T5 Motion Pictore Pr-jeelur- with
Accessories                                 $1,500 each                          6,000                                                              6,000          6,000
19  Slide Projecturs with Ac..csories           0300 each (10-9)                     3.000        2 700                                                 5 7            5,700
Sob-total1410                                                                                                                                                 194.100
Cotin .ie                                                                   26100        13.600                                                39_700        239_700
TOTAL - Special Equips.ent                                                 130,500      103,300                                                233,800        233,800
3. TooclAosec
Advicer for Fopolation Progr-                    6.                                  20,000                                                             20,000         20,000
Fello.-hip for Popolation Progrms Officer        3ra                                  4.000                                                              4,000          4,000
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                                 24,000                                                             24,000         24,000
4. Increpental gecurrect Coot
a. Salar- Support
Headq-arters
1 Popolatioc PFograc Officer                 TK750-75-1300                         1,600        1,700       1,900          350          5,550                        5,550
1 Steco,Typict                               TK220-15-400                            400          450         480                       1,330                        1,330
1 Driver                                     TK140-7-250                             270          280          290                        840                          840
1 Mecceager/Peon                             TK8O-3-110                              150          160          170                        480                          480
Thaca Staff
304 Trade Iestr-ctors                                                               45,780       90,000      95,800                     231,580                      231,580
4 Drivers/Projectioci.t        .             TK150-10-300(160-304-304)             1,080        1.120       1.160           _           3.360                        3,360
Sub total                                                                   49,280       93,710       99,800          350        243,140                      243,140
Adjstosent for Salary leYel Changes   257,                                  12320        23.39        25.000           50         60,760                       60.760
Sob-total                                                                   61,600      117,100      124,800          400        303,900                      303,900
Coctingencies                                                                1.700        8 6D0       13,900                      24.200                       24,200
TOTAL - Salaries                                                            63,300      125.700      1700 00          400        328,100                      328,100
b. Cperating Coot
Special Squipsent Haictesasce               5% of cost                            4,700        8,700       8,700                      22,100                       22,100
Vehicle Maintenance                         TKp000/p.rs/p.v. (5)                  8,000       8,000        8,000                      24,000                       24,000
Conferencec and Sesinars                                                          4,000       4,000        4,000                      12,000                       12,000
Publicatioca                                                                        700          700         700                       2,100                        2,100
Office Supplies -ad EqipTent                                                      7,000        1,500       1,500                      10,000                       10,000
Raw Materials                               Chicks, clothing, threads (eat.)  10.000                                                  10.000                       1.
Sub-total                                                                   34,400       22,900       22,900                      80,200                       80,200
Contingencies                                                                1 900        3500         5400                       10,800                       10.80
TOTAL - Operating Coot                                                      36,300       26,400       28,300                      91,000                       91,000
TOTAL - Incre.- ental Recurrent Cost                                        99,600      152,100      167,000          400        419,100                      419,100
TOTAL - MOiRERS' CLUB                                                      _420         25.0         167.000          400        419100        287,900       707,000
p.:n.v.v. - per eontvn/er vehicle
nv.v. - esn nontts
*  . ;-yh-
- .n t .



ANC 
rage 1'
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL WELFARE
Basis of ERti-sti-n and Phasing      1975-6    1976-77      1977-78     1978-79      Local         Foreign       Total
B. POPULATION PROGRAM FOR ORGANIZED LABOR
1. Vehicles                                                                                                                                           5,700         5,700
I Fo-r_Wh-ecl Drive Vehicle for Headquarters   $5700                              5,700                                                           17,100        17,10
3 Four_Wheel Drive Vehicles for Centers                                          17,100                                                           22,800        22,800
Sub-otat1                                                                22,800                                                            1,300         1,300
Contingencies                                                             L300                                                            24,100        24,100
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                         24,100
2. Special Etuipn.ent                                                                                                                                15,000         15,000
3 Seto Audiovieual Equipnent                   GOB estimate                      15,000                                                              800           aoo
Contingenoien                                                               800                                                           15,800        15,800
TOTAL - Special Equipment                                                15,800
3. Technical Asnintance
a. Advisers for Pop -lation Progran                                                                                                               20,000        20,000
Laboc Adviser                               6ts                               20,000
Population Prsgran Officer                  3-                                 4-00                                                            24000         i400
TOTAL - Technical Ansiotasce                                             24,000
4. Incre-n-tal Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
Hfadquarters Staff
I Population Progra-  Officer              TK750-75-1300                       1,600        1,700       1,900         350         5,550                       5,550
I Stenographer/Typist                      TK220-15-400                          400          450         480                     1,330                       1,330
I Driver                                   71K40-7-250                           270          280         290                       840                         840
1 Messenger/Been                           7X80-3-110                             150         160         170                       480                         480
Clinic Staff
6 Faoily Planning Vinitors                                                     2,400        2,700       2,880                      7,980                      7,980
36 Field Wkorero                                                               12,000       13,000      14,100                    39,100                      39,100
36 Motivator-                                                                   2,900        2,900       2,900                     8,700                       8,700
3 Drivers                                                                        810          840         870                      2,520                      2,520
3 Clek,/Typists                                                                  860          920         980          _2.760                                 2.760
Sub-total                                                                21,390       22,950      24,570         350        69,260                      69,260
Atjutste-t for Salary Level Changes  25%                                 5.300         5,700       6,100          50        17,l5                       17,150
Sub-total                                                                26,690       28,650      30,670         400        86,410                      86,410
Contingencies                                                               710        2 150       3.430          _          6 290                       6,290
TOTAL - Salaries                                                         27,400      30,800       34,100         400        92,700                      92,700
b. Operating Cost
Vehicle Maintenance                         TK1000 p.n.p.v. (5)               12,700       12,700      12,700                     38,100                     38,100
Speciol Equiprent Maintenance               57 of cost                            700         700         700                      2,100                      2,100
Travel Allo-.ance                          GOB ct.                             2,700        2,700       2,700                      8,100                      8,100
Office Supplies                             GOB est.                            2,500       2,500       2,500                      7,500                      7,500
Motivation Meetings                         GOB eat.                            5,300       5 300       5,300                     15.900                      15,90
Sub-total                                                                23,900       23,900      23,900                    71,700                      71,700
Contingencies                                                             1,1300       3,600       5.700                    10,600                      10_600
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                   25,200       27,500      29,600                    82,300                      82,300
TOTAL - lncrepental Recurrent Coot                                       52,600       58,300      63,700                   175,000                     175,000
TOTAL - POPS'LATION PROGRAM FOR ORGANIZED LA0OR                         116,500       58,300      63,700         400       175,000        63,900       238,900
C. WOMEN'S VOCATIONAL TRAINING      A
1. Vehicles
2 Four'Wheel Drive Vehicles                    $5700 for headquarters            11,400                                                           11,400        11,400
8 Motorcycles                                  $800, 1 per thana                  6,400                                                            6,400         6,400
32 Bicycles (including spare parts)             $100,1 per center                                                   2,880                                         2,880
shb-total                                                                20,680                                                           20,680        20,680
Contingencies .1,120                                                                                                                       1,12          1,120
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                         21,800                                                           21,800        21,800



ANNES 10
MINZISTRY OF LABOR ASID SOCIAL WELFARE
u1. S. $
Basis of Estimation and Phasing    1975-76     1976-77     1977-78     1978-79      Loa          For$eio        Total
2. Special Equipaenc                             All for NIedquarters
4Portable Tape Eecorders                      $100 eah                             400                                                            400           400
Tapes                                       eat.                                 100                                                            100           100
2 Typewriters                                 $400 each                            800                                                            800           800
Sub- total                                                               1,300                                                          1,300         1,300
Contingencies                                                              100                                                            100           100
TOTAL - Special Equipseot                                                1,400                                                          1,400         1,400
3. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary SuPport
Population Program Officer                 TK750-75-1300                      1,400       1,600       1,700                     4,700                      4,700
Junior Officer (Accounts & Adcinistration) TK375-25-525                         700         760         810                     2,270                      2,270
4 Field Supervisors                        TK310-20-400                       2,360       2,520       2,680                     7,560                      7,560
Accounts Assistant                         TK310-20-400                         590         630         670                     1,890                      1,890
Steno.Typist                               TK220-15-400                         470         510         550                     1,530                      1,530
Clerk/Typist                               TK150-10-300                         280         300         320                       900                        900
2 Drivers                                  TK140-7-250                          270         280         200                       840                        840
Peos/Mesnenger                             TK80-3-110                           150         160         170                       480                        480
Sub-total                                                                6,230       6,760       7,190                    20,170                     20,170
Thana
8Field Org-ni-ers                          TK375-25-525 (I per thana)         5,600       6,080       6,480                    18,160                     18,160
16 Field Supervisors                       TK310-20-400                        9,440      10,080      10,720                    30,240                     30,240
8 Accounts Auniltant/Clerk Typist          TK220-15-400                       3,200       3,600       3,840                    10,640                     10,640
8 Psop                                     TK80-3-110                         1,200       1,280       1,360                     3,840                      3,840
16 Guest Lecturers on Family Plansiog      TK220-15-400                        6.400       7.200       7.680                    21.280                     21,280
Sub-total                                                               25,840      28,240      30,080                    84,160                     84,160
Union
4 Field Supervisors                        TK310-20-400                       2,360       2,520       2,680                     7,560                      7,560
Salaries                                                                34,420      37,520      39,950                   111,890                    111,690
25% Salary Adjustment                                                    8.605      9L380        9.950                    27.935                     27.935
Sub-total                                                               43,025      46,900      49,900                   139,825                    139,825
Contingescies                                                            1.175       3.400       5.500                    10.075                     10,075
TOTAL - Salaries                                                        44,200      50,300      55,400                   149,900                    149,900
b. Operatino Coat
Headquarters
Tavel and Per Diem Allowances for
supervisors                             TX250 p.m. per supervisor           1,600       1,600       1,600                     4,800                      4,800
Vehicle Maistesa-ce                     TC100 p.m.p.v. (2)                  3,200       3,200       3,200                     9,600                      9,600
Special Equipstnt Maintenance           5 of cost                             65          65          70                       200                        200
Stationery and Poblination                                                    300         300         300                       900                        900
Sub-total                                                                5,165       5,165       5,170                    15,500                     15,500
District
Allo asne for 25 trainees for 3 smetho   25 a 3   3 30 a 4                  1,200       1,200       1,200                     3,600                      3,600
Training Aids nd Kits                                                      .LIO0        -           -                         1.100                      1.100
Sob-total                                                                2,300       1,200       1,200                     4,700                      4,700



ANN=X 10
Fags 17
MlNISTRY  OF  LABOR  AID  SOCIAL  WELFARE
UI. S. $
Basis of Estination and phasing    1975*-76    197Z677       1977-78    1978 -79       Local         Foreign       Total
Thans
Office and Training Supplies                    TK1,200 p.a.per thana               1,300        1,300       1,300                      3,900                       3,900
Oper-tion of Day Care Centers                  TK43,200 for 6  -onths               5,700       5,700        5,700                     17,100                      17,100
Allowance for Trainees                          TK2 x 30 days a 20 trainees         1,300        1,300       1,300                      3,900                       3,900
8 thanas
Allowance for Trainers                          2 x 30 a 20 . 8                     1,300        1,300       1,300                      3,900                       3,900
Vehicle Maintenance for 8 Motorcycles           TKl50 p...pnr motorcycle (8)        1,900        1,900       1,900                      5,700                       5,700
Aid. nd Materials for Adolt Education,
Family Planning and health                   TK125 per thana (8)                    130                                                 130                         130
Fund for Poultry and Agric. Seeds               TX4,000 per thana (8)               4,200                                               4,200                       4,200
RaV Materials for 2 Trades                      TK2,712 per thaea (8)               2,900                                               2,900                        2,900
Equipsent for Vocational Training              TK5,580 per thana (8)                5,900                                               5,900                       5,900
Installation of Tubewell                       TK2,000 per thana (8)                2,100                                               2,100                       2,100
Furniture for Education and Training            TK2,000 per thana (8)               2     100  _ _             _                        2,100                       2,100
Slb-total                                                                  28,830      11,500       11,500                     51,830                      51,830
Union
Setting of Tube..ll                             TK2,000/center (32)                 8,500                                               8,500                       8,500
Equiprent for 2 Trades                          TK5,580/center (32)                23,650                                              23,650                       23,650
Aids and Meterials for Adult Education,
Fa=ily Planning and Health                   TK125/center (32)                      530                                                 530                         530
Fund for Poultry and Agric. Seeds               TK4,O00/center (32)                17,000                                              17,000                       17,000
Raw Materials for 2 Trades                      TK2,712/center (32)                11,500                                              11,500                      11,500
Kit. for rainees                               TK 30x15 trainees x 4 batches x    7,600         7,600       7,600                     22,800                      22,800
32 centers
Allo,ance for Trainees                          TK1.50 x 30xlSx4 x 32              11,400       11,400      11,400                     34,200                       34,200
Allowance for Trainers                          TKl.50 a 30x15x4 x 32              11,400       11,400      11,400                     34,200                       34,200
Stationery                                     TK1,200 p.a. per center (32)         5,100       5,100        5,100                     15,300                      15,300
Training Supplies                                                                  17,000                                              17,000                      17,000
Day Care Center                                TK2,940/3,os.                       12,SOO       12500      12,500                     37.500                      37.500
Sub-total                                                                 126,180      48,000       48,000                    222,180                     222,180
Total - Operating Cost
(hqrs, ThaDa & Union Center)                                     160,175       64,665      64,670                    2899510                     289,510
Contingencies                                                              8,825        9,835       15.430                     34;090                      34 090
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                    169,000      74,500       80,100                    323,600                     323,600
TOTAL - Incre-ental Recurrent Cost                                        213,200     124,800      135,500                    473,500                     473,500
TOTAL - WC(EN'S VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM                               2364135500                                          473_500       232           496,700
D. INTERNAL EVALUATION
1. Special Equipment
2 Hand Calculators                                                                    400                                                               400           400
2. Incremental Recurrent Cost
Salary Support
1 Statistician                                 TK375-25-650                           350          380         400                      1,130                        1,130
2 Statistical Assistants                       TK220-10                               400          450         480                      L330                         1 330
Sub-total                                                                     750         830          880                      2,460                       2,460
Salary Adjustment                                                             190         210          220                        620                         620
Sub-total                                                                     940       1,040        1,100                      3,080                       3,080
Contingencies                                                                  60          60          200                        320                         320
TOTAL - Salaries                                                            1,000       l,1OO        l,300                      3,400                       3,400



ANNEX 10
Page 18
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL WELFARE
USS
Basis of Eatimatiom atd Phasing   1975-76      1976-77     1977-78       197-7.9     Local        Foreign        Total
3. Opersting Cost
Office Supplies                                                                     300          300         300                       900
Special Studies                                                                    39000       30000                    900                                      900
S.b-t.tal                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~3.000  3.000   3.000                      9 000                      91___
Sob- total                                                                3,300       3,300        3,300                     9-900                       9900
TOTAL - .ncreantal Recu-rert Cost                                         4,300       4.400       4,600                     13,300                      13,300
TOTAL - INTERNAL EVALUATION                                               4.700       4.400       4.600                     13,300           400        13_700
E.  TOTALS
Vehicles                                                                            71,980                                                           71,980        71,980
Special Eq.ip-.ent                                                                 121,100      89,700                                              210,800       210,800
Technical Assistance                                                                48,000                                                           48,000        48,000
Incretental Recurrent Cost                        -                                354,030     308,455      321,240         800       984,525                     984,525
Coctingencies                                                                       46.690      44.745       49.560         _          96.375        44,620       140.995
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF LABOR AND
SOCTAL WELFARE                                                       641,800       2         37000            8       00              37 0        14_6 300



ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION OF THE PILOT SCHEMES AT THE
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL WELFARE
Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
Headquarters                                               Headquarters                                                Headquarters
Director Social Welfare*                                         Chairman                                                Director of Labor*
Director Social Welfare*                    ~~~Rehabilitation Board
Population Program Officer                                 Population Program Officer                                 Population Program Officer
Thana                                                     Thana                                                        Center
Thana Social Welfare                                                                                                  Medical Officer Labor
Officer *                                              Field Organizer                                            Welfare Centers
Union
1 Male 1 Female Village                                         Field Supervisor                                        Family Welfare Visitor
Social Worker for each of
the Unions
Union                                                       Field
2 Trade Instructors per
Uno.rane                                                                                                       Field Workers and
Union                                                    Trainees                                                   Motivators
Village
5 Mothers' Clubs in Five
Villages from each of the
Eight Unions                                                 Trainees
(40 Clubs per Thana)
* Existing staff of rural social service program.
Remainder are staff and personnel added through the project.                                                               World Bank-9407



ANNEX 10
Appendix I
Page 1
Terms of References of the Population Program Officer at the Directorate of
Social Welfare
Population Program Officer
1.        The population program officer will be responsible for:
(a)  Keeping liaison with the PPD and the PPS;
(b) Submitting regular quarterly reports to the PPD;
(c) Arranging for the training/orientation program for the staff
of the scheme;
(d) Arranging for an internal evaluation of the scheme, including
analysis of routine data and feedback of the results of
evaluation to the staff of the scheme and the Director of
Social Welfare;
(e) Receiving the results of evaluation and providing proper
feedback to the staff of the scheme;
(f) Making suitable modification in the scheme based on
of evaluation results;
(g) Ensuring effective supervision of the scheme and making
frequent field visits (the PPO should be in the field
for at least three-fourths of the time); and
(h) Ensuring the marketing of products and proper allocation
of sale proceeds to the members of the club.
Qualifications
2.        Preferably a senior civil servant from the ministry concerned.



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix I
Page 2
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of References
Adviser at the Directorate of Social Welfare
1.        The adviser will assist the Director of Social Welfare in:
(a) designing the training courses for various personnel
in techniques of population education and motivation
through the mothers' clubs and in preparation of the
program manual:
(b)  working out the details of implementation of the
mothers' club program;
(c)  improvements of the program operation;
(d) laying down the criteria for internal and external
evaluations;
(e)  establishing the system of internal evaluation; and
(f) review of the program before the end of the assignment
and then making recommendation for its improvements.
Qualifications
An expert of established reputation in the field of communications
with experience in administering or planning similar programs in less-
developed countries.



ANNEX 10
Appendix II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Population Program Officer at the Directorate of Labor
Population Program Officer
1.        The population program officer will be responsible for:
(a) keeping liason with the PPD and the PPS;
(b) arranging for training of field staff;
(c) arranging for the production of training material;
(d) evaluation of the scheme and feedback of results to
the Director and field staff;
(e) submitting quarterly reports to the PPD; and
(f) field supervision for at least half of the time.
Terms of Reference of Advisers at the Directorate of Labor
2.        To assist the PPO in:
(a) a detailed preparation of the program of delivery of
family planning services and motivation through the
labor welfare centers;
(b) the preparation of the guidelines and manuals for
field workers and motivators;
(c) the training of various personnel and production of
training material;
(d) the making of improvements in program operation;
(e) the establishment of a system of record-keeping for
the internal evaluation;



ANNEX 10
Appendix II
Page   2
(f)  the setting up of indices for internal and external
evaluation; and
(g) reviewing of the program before the end of the assign-
ment to make recommendation for further improvements.
Qualification
An expert of established reputation in family planning program
operation, preferably with some association with labor welfare schemes.
Terms of Reference for Population Program Officer at the Women's Rehabilita-
tion Board
Population Program Officer
1.        The population program officer will be responsible for:
(a) keeping liason with the PPD and the PPS;
(b) arranging for training of field staff in population
education;
(c) arranging for the production of training material;
(d) evaluation of the scheme and feedback of results to the
Director and field staff;
(e) submitting quarterly reports to the Population Project Unit; and
(f) field supervision for at least half of the time.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BANGLADESIT
POPULATION PROJECT
Population Program of the 1linistry of Agriculture
1.        This annex briefly discusses the present function of the agricul-
tural assistants of the Ministry of Agriculture in which population education
can effectively be included, the organization required for the purpose (see
organizational chart 9408), the objective and contents of this scheme, facilities
provided by the project, and the work schedule.
T.  Ongoing Program
2.        Among all the services of the Government of Bangladesh, only the
agricultural extension service has agents in all unions. Its main function
is to provide educational services to the farmers pertaining to the agri-
cultural development. These services are rendered through more than 4,noo
agricultural assistants - one in each union.  These agricultural assistants,
with established positions of leadership and extensive involvement in formal
and informal group activities in the rural areas, have gained much experience
in formal education. The Ministry also has agricultural officers at both
district and thana levels for supervising the work of these assistants.
The project includes a pilot scheme for the use of these agricultural
assistants in population and family planning education.
II. Use of Agricultural Assistants
3.        Objective:  To help farmers understand (a) the population problem
in terms of the adverse effect of population growth on the availability of
resources, production of output and levels of living and (b) possible ways
and means of solving the population problem.
4.        Organization:  A population program officer (PPO) at the level of
Deputy Director in the Ministry of Agricultture will be appointed who will
report to the Director of Agriculture. He would be mainly responsible for
the implementation of the pilot scheme. Ile will- also suggest ways of includ-
ing population education in the other programs of the ministries particularly
the introduction of population education into the regular curriculum of



ANNEX 1 1
Page   2
Agricultural Assistants Training Institutes in the country. Additional
equipment for production of slides on population problems is being provided
for the Agricultural Information Services. These slides will be used by agri-
cultural assistants as well as by other ministries. The PPO will ensure the
production and time availability of slides to all concerned ministries (terms
of reference are given at the end of the annex). The PPO will receive three
months of training abroad in relevant institutions and countries. In addition,
four inspectors - one in each region - will assist the district and thana
agricultural officers in field supervision.
5.         Content:  The agricultural assistants would be trained in popula-
tion problems and motivation techniques at the thana level by the thana
agricultural officers in cooperation with thana family planning officers and
guest lecturers. The assistants would then talk to the farmers contacted
during their visit to the villages about the relationship of agricultural
development and population growth both at the national and familial levels.
These agents would then submit a brief monthly report on farmers' attitudes,
reactions and main problems in accepting family planning.  A special kit
containing written instructions and flip charts will be given *to each agent
as well as a slide projector and a bicycle.
6.         Administration:  The PPO will prepare the detailed plans for the
execution of the scheme.  Ile will arrange for preparation of training material
and provision of slides. The district and thana agricultural officers in
pilot areas will receive orientation in population programs in Dacca for a
week.  The ten agricultural assistants of each thana would receive training
for about two weeks in the first year and one week reorientation every year
at the thana level bv the thana officers and guest lectujrers.
7.         Coverage:  One thana in eacii clistrict (19) will be covered by the
pilot scheme in a phased manner over a tlhree-year period. Ten tlhanas (four
concentrated and six others) will be undertaken in the first year and the
rest of the nine in the second year.  The thanas selected for this scheme
will be the same as those selected for the mothers' clubs scheme under tlhe
Mlinistry of Labor and Social Welfare.
S.         Expected Testults:  It is expected that each agricultural assistant
will motivate about ten farners in each village per year.  No less than
19,000 persons in the 1,900 villages in the 19 thanas are likely to accept
family planning. This may mean about 57,000 acceptors in the three-year
period.
12.        E.valuations:  While the external. evaluation of the schemes will
he condtucted by the PPS at the Planning Commission the internal evaluation
within the Min1stry would consist of regular reporting and special studies
in collaboration with the l'PD at the MOIIPP.



ANNEX 1 1
Page  3
(a)  Regular Reporting:  Monthly reports will be prepared by the
agricultural assistants giving information on:  (i) the number
of farmers who were contacted to talk about agriculture and
population, and (ii) the number of times the special kit and
slide projector were used; and the number of adults who
attended the shows. The reports then are sent to the thanas
where additional union information is provided on: (i) the number
of agents required to be in position, (ii) the number actually
in position, (iii) the number trained under the scheme, and
(iv) the number of agents supplied with the special kits and slide
projectors. Thana agricultural offices will send monthly
reports giving union data mentioned above to the district
office and headquarters, with copies to the PPD. They will
also send brief reports on the maintenance of the slide
projectors and other observations made during their inspection
visits to the agents.
(b) Special Studies: Funds would be provided to the Ministry
of Agriculture by the PPD for special studies on: (i) the
effectiveness of training given to thana agricultural officers
(evaluated at Dacca) and assistants (evaluated at thana),
(ii) the number and percentage of the assistants trained,
by thanas, (iii) the number and percentage of trained assistants
given kits and slide projectors by thana, and (iv) the frequency
of equipment use and number of adults who attended the shows.
Further internal evaluation should be made through studies
suggested under the mothers' club'scheme for the Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare.
III. Staff and Other Requirements
9.        Personnel
(a) One population program officer (PPO) and the study
tour abroad for the PPO.
(b) Four inspectors - one in each region for field
supervision.
(c) One statistical assistant at the headquarters to assist
the population program officer in internal evaluation.
(d) One stenographer at headquarters.
(e) One driver and one guard/peon.



ANNTEX 11
Page 4
10.       Eauipment
(a)  One bicycle for each agriculture assistant in pilot
areas.
(b)  One bicycle for each thana agricultural officer for
supervision.
(c)  Slide projectors (19) - one for each thana for audio-
visual support for training and talks to the farmers.
(d)  Office equipment and kit bags (flip charts and
slides, portable slide projector and portable
tape recorder) one per assistant.
(e)  Camra and spare parts for production and slides.
tt.       Operating Costs:  Travel and per diems expenses; funds for main-
tenance of vehicles and internal evaluation.
12.       Work Schedule:
(a)  Appointment of population program officer                 March 1975
(b)  Completion of local and foreign
Training of population program officer                    July 1975
(cY  Order of equipment and vehicles                           July 1974
Cd)  Appointment of other staff                                August 1975
(e)  Orientation of district and thana agricultural
officers                                                  September 1975
(f)  Training of agricultural assistants                       October 1975
(g)  Operation of scheme                                       November 1975
(h)  Review of the scheme in ten schemes                       December 1976
(1)  Steps e, f and g for the rest of the nine thanas          February 1977
(j)  Review of ten old and nine new thanas                     December 1977
(k)  Review of schemes in all nineteen thanas                  December 1978



ANNEX I 1
Page 5
Cost
13.       The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$145,600.  The
detailed estimates are given in the table at the end of this,annex.



raREX 11
Page 6
COST ESTMATES OF pOPULaTI0N0 ]P80(     OF TcE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
U. S. $
Basis of Estimation ad. Phting    1975 -7     197,6f-77    1977-78      1978 -79     Locl          F-oreigo      Total
A. USE OF AGRICULTlTRAL ASSISTANITS
1. Vehicles
I FourWYheel Drive Vehicle  for Readquarters  $5700                               5,700                                                            5,700         5, 700
210 Bitytles (including spare parts)             l90-Unios;19-Thaas,I B-Q-$lOO    11,100         9,900                                              21,000        21,000
(including spare parts)
Sub-total                                                                16,800       9,900                                               26,700        26,700
Continge-cie.                                                               900        1.500                                                2400         2400
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                         17,700       11,400                                              29,100        29,100
2. Special Efsipsent
I Typewriter                                   $400                                 400                                                              400           400
19 Slide Project-rs/Accessories                 $300                               5,700                                                            5,700         5,700
6840 35- Cclored Slides                           12 sets of 30 slides a 19 thanao   3,400                                                            3,400         3,400
1 35qs Camera                                  $400                                 400                                                              400           400
1 28r f/3.5 Lets                               $100                                 100                                                                            10O
1 55-s f/3.5 Auto Less                         $160 (attachment, adaptor, Ring)     160                                                              160           160
Ciocloding spare parts)
210 KIttbag                                      $20 each (111-99)                  2,220        1,980                                               4,200         4,200
Films                                                                            1,440                                                           1,440         1,440
20 Units of 6 lt battery for 4-ye-r  Supply   $7000                                 7,000                                                           7,000         7,000
500 Projector Lap                                                                   4.700                                                            47            4 700
Sub-tclal                                                                25,520        1,980                                              27,500        27,500
Contingencies                                                             1,380          320                                               1.700         1,700
TOTAL - Special Equipsent                                                26,900        2,300                                              29,200        29,200
3. Technical Assistance
Fellowship  foe Population Program Officer    3                                    40                                                              4.000         4.000
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                              4,000                                                            4,000         4,000
4. Incrae=tal Recurrent Cost
a Salary Support
O Population Progran Officer              T3750-75-1300                        1,600        1,700       1,900         350         5,550                       5,550
1 Statistical Assistant                    TR220-15-400                          400          450         480                     1,330                       1,330
1 Steno-Typist                             Ti;220-15-400                         400          450         480                     1,330                       1,330
1 Uriver                                   TY140-7-250                           270          280         290                       B40                         640
O Gard/Peon                               1TK80-3-110                            150          160         170                       480                         480
4 Inspectors (Thaoa Staff)                  Tl;375-25-650                       2.800       3.040       3240           _9.080                                 9.080
Slb-total                                                                 5,620        6,080       6,560         350        18,610                      18,610
Salary Adjustment                                                         1.405       1S520        1.640         45154,1
Sob-total                                                                 7,025        7,600       8,200         400        23,225                      23,225
Conting.ncies                                                               175          600         900          -            675                       1,675
TOTAL - Salaries                                                          7,200        8,200       9,100         400        24,900                      24,900
b. Operatism Cost
Travel and Per Dim Allov-aces              eat,                                4,000        3,000       3,000                     10,000                     10,000
Sniisars and Conferences                    eat.                                 500          700         800                     2,000                       2,000
Vehicle Maimtesasce                        T3l1000 Per tkonth/per vehicle (lJ  3,400        4,900       4,900                     13,200                     13,200
Special Equipeent Mainten-cs                51 per year                        1,300        1,400       1,400                      4,100                      4,100
Office Furniture and Supplies               eat.                               3,000        1,000       1,000                      5,000                      5,000
Allnce for Introduction of Papulation
Education to Agricultural Assiatants
Iraining Inotitute                       09t.                               10)00O                                             10.000                      10,000
Sub-total                                                               22,200       1,0           ,0                      44,300                      44,300
Comtingen-ies                                                            1.200        1,700      2L2D0                      5,100                       5,10
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                  23,400       12,700      13,300                    49,400                      49,400
TOTAL - Increeatal Recurrent Cost                                       30,600       20,900      22,400         400        74,300                      74,300
TOTAL - TlSE OF ASSISTANTS                                              79.200      34 600       22400          400        74.300       62 300        116_600



ANNEXI1
Page 7
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
U. 0 
Baeis of Enaitiota nd Phasing    1975-76    1976-77      97778  US.S             lo          Foreign       Total
B. INTERNAL EVALvATIn
Iocres,ostsl Recurr-nt Coat
Special Scudie                                 In.cl.des Mothers' Clubs          3.000       3.000       3.000                   900000
TOTALL - INTERBAL  EVALUATION                                        3.000       3.000      3.000                    9.000                     9.000
3. Totals
Vohicles                                                                     16,800      9.900                                            26,700       26.700
Special Eqoip-e.t                                                            25,520      1,980                                           27,500        27,500
Technical Assistance                                                          4,000                                                       4,000         4,000
Increnental Recurrent Cost                                                   32,225     21,600      22,300        400        76,525                    76,525
Contingencies                                                                 3.655      4.120       3.100                    6,775       4,100        10,875
TOTAL - INIllSTRY OF At12CULThLE                                    82.200      37.600     25.400         400       83.300       62.300      145_600



ADMINISTRATiON AND SUPERVISION OF THE PiLOT
SCHEME AT THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Minister of Agriculture
Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture
Director of Agriculture
(Extension and Management)
I
AddI. Director of Agriculture
(Extension and Management)
r 4-   -                                                                                  .
Addi. Director of Agriculture                          Population Program Officer                                Regional Director of
(Education and Training)                                (1) (Deputy Director)*                                   Agriculture (4)
Agricultural Assistants                                                                                        District Extension
Training Institute 120.                               Regional Inspectors 14)                                     Offices (20)
Principal (201                                    Statistical Assistant (1)                             Thana Extension Offices
(4131
Instructors (1 201 )                                                                                        Union Agricultural
Assistants (4,053)
 Functional Relationship
Administrative Relationship
* Staff added through the project; the rest are existing staff.                                  World Bank-9408



rage 1.
ToEr  of Refreace
Populaticn Prongs. ocfiuer At -the MU=str of Ajtx1cultur
1.   . . The population program officer wili be responsible for:.
(a)  Keeping liaison with the PPD and the PPS;
(b)  Submitting regular quarterly reports to the PPD;
(c) Arranging for a treainng program of the scheme and for
the preparation of training material;
(d)  Arranging for an Internal evaluatlon of the scheme, an
analysis of routinq data and for feedback of the results
of evaluation to the staff of the scheme and the Director
of Agriculture;
(e) Receiving the results of evaluation and providing proper
feedback to the staff of the scheme;
(f) Making suitable modification in the scheme based upon
evaluation results;
(g) Ensuring effective supervision of the scheme and making
frequent field visits (the PPO should be in the field
for at leadt three-fourths of the time); and
(h) Ensuring the production of slides at the Agri-cultural Infqimation
Service Department and their prompt availability to all
concerned ministries.
-Qualifications
2.        Preferably a senior civil servant from the ministry concerned.



ANNEX 12
Page  1
BANGLADESH
POPULATICON PROJ.CT
Pcpulation Proram of the MLnist.y of Education
1.        This annex describes the existing system of education that can
be used for the introduction of population education both for the school
children and the community outsi4e, the proe4  orization at the Ministry
for the purpose (see organizational chart 94, specific schemes for introduc-
tion of population education, the facilities proyided in the project for these
schemes and the work schedule.
I.  Ongoing Ropgram
2.        The school system in  ang4e h is    fge-_-old respected institution.
Illiterate villagers valueie`ucation and-respect choo  teaehers as-the
symbol of learninig.  The schools, therefore, have a great potential for
generating measures for rural development.  There are about 35,594 primary
schools and about 5,039 high schools ii the country.  The estimated 130,000
primary and 80,000 secondarty school teachers are generally recognized as
key resources in the rural are4s.  They represent an elite that can legitimize
developmental projects and programs.  UNICEF, for example, has trained
9,000 primary school teachers in health, sanitation and nutrition.  In addition
to the schools 'themselves, the 48 primary teacher training institutes, the
six secondary school teachers'  training institutes and the Education Extension
Center at Dacca arrange for the orientation an  training of school techers.
3.        The Education Commission has recogni,zp4ed the importance of popula-
tion education and has recommended the formation  of a National Committee
to study the: introduction of population education in the school system.
The Institut,e of E4ucation Research, Dacca Unt*prSity, is being assisted
by the Ford Foundation for the development of population education material.
This-material will be studied in 4n schools in 1975 on a pilot basis.
rleanwhile, the Directorate of Public Instructions is proposing to initiate
the work on curricul,um development through its Curriculum Development
Committee. 'It is intended that the findings of the studies conducted by
the Institute of Educational Research will be used in the process of
the final revision of text books.
4.        The project includes the following to support the above described
activities in population education:



AkYREX 12
Page 2
(a) A mobile population education team to conduct seminars
on population problems for primary and secondary school
teachers in each pilot thana, to be arranged by the
Education Extension Center.
(b) Development of population education material for
curriculum development through the Directorate of
Public Instructions.
(c) National seminars on population education to be
organized by the Institute of Educational Research,
Dacca University.
II. Organization for Population Education
5.        A Population Program Officer (PPO), at the level of Deputy Director,
nucleus of all population-related activities in the Ministry of Education,
will be appointed in the Directorate of Public Instruction. He will report
to the Director, Public Instructions. He will have supporting staff and will
be specifically responsible for the implementation of the proposed schemes
in the Ministry of Education. The PPO, will receive three months' training/
orientation abroad in those countries where population education has reached
an advanced stage. The PPO will be assisted by an adviser in the detailed
preparatiot of the scheme. Although the PPO will be mainly responsible for
population education curriculum development, he will also assist in the
proposed pilot scheme for the mobile population education team. For the pilot
scheme a seminar coordinator and a lecturer are provided separately. (The
terms of reference of the PPO and adviser are given at the end of this annex.)
III. Mobile Population Education Team For Seminars on
Population Problems for Primary and Secondary
School Teachers in Pilot Thanas
6.        Objective:  The main objectives is to seek the cooperation and
support of teachers for the family planning program and elicit their co-
operation for family planning motivation of the immediate community, through
special seminars on population problems.
7.        Content:  A lecturer, along with a coordinator, would visit the pilot
thana twice a year for about a week to conduct seminars for teachers from
primary and secondary schools.  The seminars will cover different aspects
of population problems and ways and means of solving the problems. One
teacher from each school from the pilot thanas will be selected. Teachers
in groups of 50 will be invited to thana headquarters for the seminars. The



f XX 12
Page 3
seminar discussions will be based on background papers to be prepared by
the staff in the first instance. Written papers from participants would be
invited for discussions in subsequent seminars.
8.        Coverage:  On an average there may be 1,700 primary schools and
over 200 secondary schools in the 19 pilot thanas or about 86 primary and
12 secondary schools in each thana. One teacher from each of these schools
will be invited for the seminars.
9.        Expected Results:  On an average there is one school for two
villages. It is expected that at least 50% of the villages in each thana
where the primary school teachers lives would be influenced by his opinion.
Therefore, about 1,000 villages out of about 1,900 in 19 pilot thanas will
be covered. Assuming only five acceptors per year per village through the
influence of primary school teachers, about 15,000 acceptors are expected to
be recruited in three years.
10.       Administration:  An officer in charge of arranging the seminar
(coordinator), would be appointed at the Education Extension Center. He will
report to the Director of the Education Extension Center. A lecturer would assist
in the actual organization and evaluation of seminars. The lecturer would
be given orientation by the PPO and the Coordinator. The coordinator would
also obtain the necessary film from the Ministry of Information and Broad-
casting and the Ministry of Health and Population Planning or Family Planning
Association and produce the slides needed to support the seminars. The
schedule and content of seminars, discussions, and background papers will be
prepared by the lecturer. The driver would be trained in the use of audio-
visual equipment and in simple repairs. Supervision of the seminars will
be undertaken by the PPO. He would check at least half the seminars for
the organizational content and effectiveness every year.
11.       Evaluations:           While the external evaluation will be conducted
by the PPS at the Planning Commission the internal evaluation would consist
of regular reporting and special studies in collaboration with the PPD at
MCHPP.
(a)  Regular Reorting: The coordinator would keep a record
of the number of teachers who attended the seminar.
Also, he would administer some simple before and
after questions to the participants to assess (i) the
content of background papers and talks, and (ii) the
audiovisual aids.   The coordinator would report on
the results, make the analysis and send them to the
PPO and PPD every quarter.
(b) The coordinator would arrange for special studies to
evaluate the effectiveness of the seminars in terms



'fNMEX 72
Page 4
of (i) its impact on knowledge, attitude and practice
of family planning, and (ii) the influence of the
teachers in the community and to what extent population-related
information was conveyed and what total impact was made.
Staff and Other Requirements
12.       Personnel
(a) One coordinator to organize and schedule the seminar;
(b) One lecturer whose primary function would be to
deliver lectures on population problems and help in
preparing the discussion materials for seminars;
(c) Two drivers and one clerk-typist; and
13.       Vehicles and Equipment:
(a) two four-wheel drive vehicles for the mobile
population education team,
(b) one motion-picture projector and one slide
projector for audiovisual aid, and
(c) office equipment.
13.       Operating Costs:
(a) Allowances for teacher participants; and
(b)  Cost of maintenance of vehicles, special equipment
and the production of printed material.
14.       Work Schedule:
(a) Appointment of coordinators and lecturers for
mobile population education;                              July 1975
(b)  Procurement of equipment and vehicles;                    July 1975
(c)  Training of lecturer and production of material; and   August 1975
(d)  Evaluation of the 10 thanas;                              December 1976
(e)  Extension of the scheme to the remainder of the nine   January -
thanas; and                                              February 1977
(f)  Final evaluation of the 19 thana schemes                  December 1978



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Cost
15.       The total cost of the scheme is US$148,000.  The details are given
in the table at the end of this annex.
IV. Curriculum Development
16.       Objective:  To initiate the long-term effort in the introduction
of population education in the school system through development and training
of teachers.
17.       Contents:  Three committees would be formed for curriculum devel-
opment in population education for primary, secondary and higher secondary
schools.  These three committees would hold about eighty meetings to
discuss and develop the first draft of the curriculum. Teachers from
secondary school, from the Secondary School Teachers Training College, and
Primary School Teachers Training Institutes would be trained for a week
in the population education material developed by the committees. Such
training would help in testing the curriculum, as well as in initiating the
process of preparing the teachers for the revision of text books.
18.       Coverage:  The scheme would train at least one teacher from all
the secondary schools, the Secondary School Teachers Training College and the
superintendent of Primarv School Teachers Training Institutes. Over 7,000
teachers would be trained during the three-year project period.
19.       Expected Results:  The scheme is likely to generate interest in
population problems among the 7,000 teachers at least. It will also help in
setting up the first step towards the long process of text hook revision
which may be completed by 1980.
20.       Administration:  The Population Program Officer, as mentioned in
Section II of this annex would be responsible for arranging the meeting
of the Curriculum Development Committee, for production of population
education material and the training of teachers. The Director of Public
Instruction will supervise the curriculum development and training of teachers.
21.       Evaluations:  While the external evaluation will be conducted by
the PPS of the Planning Commission, the internal evaluation will consist of
regular reporting and special studies in collaboration with the PPD at the
MOHPP.
(a) Regular Reporting. The PPO would submit progress reports
on the committees' work, the number of teachers trained by
type of school and subjects they teach. The reports will
be submitted to the PPD with copies to the Director of
Public Instructions and the Education Extension Center.



ANNEX 1 2
Page   6
(b) Special Studies. The PPO would arrange for special studies
through sample surveys of teachers undergoing training
before and after the one-week course to assess: (i) the
effectiveness of material produced by the committees;
(ii) content of training of teachers; and (iii) mode of
dissemination of information.
Staff and Other Requirements
22.       Personnel:
(a) Population program officer (PPO) to coordinate and follow-up
the population education program:
(b) Adviser to assist the PPO and the study tour abroad for the PPO;
(c) Two clerks; and
(d) Two drivers.
23.       Vehicle:
(a) Two four-wheel drive vehicles for the population
program officer's work and for the committee's work.
24.       Operating Costs:
(a) Cost of maintenance of vehicles, special eauipment
and the production of printed material; and
(b)  Allowances for committee members for the revision
of curriculum.
25.       Work Schedule:
(a) Appointment of population program officer
and adviser;                                               March 1q75
(h)  Formation of Curriculum Development Committees;            April. 1975
(c) Submission to IDA curricula and their proposed
implementation schedules for grades 6, 7 and 8;            December 31, 1975
(d)  Training of teachers for grades 6, 7 and 8                 Marchi 1976
(e)  Evaluation of curricula for grades 6, 7 and 8              December 1976r



ANNEX 12
Page 7
(f)  Formation of Curriculum Development Committee
grades 1-5 and 9 and 10;                                  January 1976
(g)  Submission to IDA  of curricula for grades
1-5 and 9 and 10 and proposed implementation schedule; December 1976
(h)  Training of teachers for grades 1-5 and 9 and 10          February 1977
(i)  Evaluation of curriculum and training for grades
1-5 and 9 and 10;                                         December 1977
(j)  Formation of Curriculum Development Committee
for grades 11-14;                                         January 1977
(k)  Submission to IDA of the curricula for
grades 11-14 and implementation schedule;                 December 1977
(1)  Teachers and training for grades 11-14; and               February 1978
(m)  Evaluation of the performance up to 1978.                 December 1978
VII. National Seminar on Population Education
26.       Objective:  To call public attention to the need for population
education among the young school-age population, gain official support
for it and discuss priority approaches to the problem.
27.       Content:  The national seminar will draw participants (teachers
and experts in the field) from remote areas in the country. The discussion
will be on the need, content, and form of population education to be
introduced in the school system.
28.       Administration:  The Institute of Educational Research, Dacca
University will organize the conference under the joint sponsorship of the
Education Extension Center and Directorate of Public Instruction.
29.       Requirements:
(a)  Honoraria, travel, per diem expenses for 200 participants;
(b)  Funds for printing and publication of papers.
30.       Expected Results:  The conference is seen as an essential step
in the process of advising the Government on developing an effective
national population education program.
31.       Internal Evaluation:  The Institute of Educational Research will
analyze the achievetients of the seminar and determine the required follow-up
measures.



ANMEX 12
Page   8
32.        Cost:  The total cost of the seminar is estimated at US$4,00o.
The details are given in the table at the end of this annex.



t.iE COST ESTI'IATES OF PPS?OAIOIN ?RDCRAY3 OF TEE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                                                         Page 9
Basis of ECtination and Phasing    1975-76       1076-'?      1977-78      1978-79       Lanai         Foreig         Tota
A.  0OP-C- 9F F'.' _ 7 9N0P?GRAUM OFFICER
;. Vehialeo
L F-ar-A'.s    Dolt, Vehicle                    US$5700                               5,700                                                              5,700          5,700
.arO:-seClVCt   es300                                                                                                                              300           300
TOIAL - Vehicles                                                             6,000                                                              6,000          6,000
2. Technical A-sctaarc-
Fellaa-hip Eon Popsia  enro  . ran O r icer      3m                                   4, 000                                                             4,00           4000
TOTAL - Technical Asoistanne                                                 4,000                                                              4,000          4,000
3. Inrc-oental Oncurress Cost
a. Salary- S.pr-
1 Papulatien Prng-a  Offiner                 TK750-75-1300                         1,600        1,700       1,900          350          5,550                        5,550
I Dnivnr                                     T8 140-7-250                            270          280         290          8_ 40                                       840
Sub-t.crl                                                                    1,870        1,980        2,190          350          6,390                       6,390
257. Solary Adjontsoet                                                         430          520          530           50          1,530                       1,550
ub- ctoal                                                                    2,300       2,500        2,720          400          7,920                        7,920
Coat irgeoncies o100                                                                        200          380                         680                          680
-OTAL - Salaries                                                             2,400        2,700        3,100         400          8,808                        8,600
b. Operating Cast
Vehicle Maintenance                          TK1000 p.n.p.v. (1)                   1,600        1,600       1,600                       4,800                        4,800
Ofine Supplies                                                                     2000         1.000       1.000                       4,000                        4,000
Sub- total                                                                   3,600        2,600        2,600                       8,800                       8,800
C-ntingencies                                                                   700         400          600                       1,700                     1j700
TOTAL - Operating Coot                                                       4,300        3,000        3,200                      10,500                      10,500
.OTAL - Inre-netal Rna-ent Cent                                              6,700        5,700        6,300         400         19,100                       19,100
TOTAL - OFFICE OF POPULATION PRORAM
OFFICE                                                              16.700        5,700       6,300          400         19,100        10 00,100
B. P?OT THNANS SCHEME
Yabile Tean fe- Teachers' Semina-sl
' . T ehicles
2 Fear-'k-el Drice Vehicles                    US55700                              11,400                                                             11,400         11,400
Contingencies                                                                   600                                                                600            600
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                            12,000                                                             12,000         12,000
2. Special Cquipenrt
1 1Sie Movie Projecror/Acnessori-s               US$1500                              1,500                                                              1,500          1,500
I Slide Projector/Accessories                   L5$300                                  300                                                                300            300
A'-dio-is-al Materials                                                                  700                                                                700            700
1 Typewriter                                    US$400                                  400                                                                400            400
Sob-total                                                                    2,900                                                               2,900         2,900
Cootingencieo                                                                   200                                                                200            200
TOTAL - Spenial Eqoipment                                                    3,100                                                               3,100          3,100
3. loceocosol Renurrent Cnst
o. Salary Support
1 Se-nsr Coerdin-tor                           TK475-50                                900        1,000       1,100                       3,000                        3,000
I 1l-turer                                     TK450-50                                860          950       1,050                       2,860                        2,860
2 Drivers                                      TK140-7                                 040          560          580                      1,680                        1,680
I Clerk-Typist                                 TK220-10                                400          450         480                       1.330                        1.330
Sab- taal                                                                     2,700       2,960        3,210                       8,870                        8,870
257/ Salary Ldj-stnent                                                         700          740          790                       2,230                       2.230
Sab-totral                                                                    3,400       3,700        4,880                      11,100                      11,100
Contisgennies                                                                   100         300          400                         8oo                          S00
TOTAL - Solariet                                                              3,500       4,000        4,400                      11,900                       11,900
b. Operating Co-t
Vehicle Maintenance                          TK1OOO p.n.p.v. (2)                   3,200        3,200       3,200                       9,600                        9,600
Special Equipment Maintenanee                07. of nest                             150          150         150                         450                          450
Prpara-tion  f Materials for  es-ina-        9500 pee sninar a1                 / 2,0100       4,080        4,030                      10,80001,0
Traseaatond 7cr SAM OemParticemipants        TK25x5 dayt x 100(1000-1900-1900) 16,600         31,500       31,500                      79,600                       79,600
a/ 2 seminorn Ilt year
b/ 50 participanto each
Office Furnit-re and Sopplies                                                      3,000        1,000       1,000                       5,000                        5,000
S.b-taoal                                                                   24,930       39,850       39,850                    104,650                      104,650
Cootisge-ni-s                                                                 1,350       6,050        9,450                      16,850                      16 850
TOTAL - Operating Cent                                                      26,300       48,900       49,300                     121,500                     121,500
TOTAL - :ncremental Recurrent Co-t                                          29,800       49,900       53,700                     133,400                     133,400
TOTAL - PILOT THAENAS SCHEIE                                                44,900       49.900       53.700                     133.400        15,100       148.500



AMNNE 12
Page 10
ThE COST ESTIMATES OF POPULATION PROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
U1. S. 
Basis of Estimation and Phasing    1975-76        1976-77      1977-78     1978-79       Local         PrFoesi        Total
C. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT ANI0 TEACHER TRAINING
1. Vebiclos
I FPos-Wheel Drive Vehicle                      US$5700                               5,700                                                              5,700          5,700
C-ntingenci-s                                                                  300                                                                 300           'C0
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                             6,000                                                              6,000          6,000
2. Opecual Equipment
I Duplicating Machite                                                                   400                                                                400            400
TOTAL - Speniol Equipmnot                                                      400                                                                 400            400
3. Technical Assistance
Population Education Adviser                     12-m                                40,000                                                             40.000         40,000
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                                40,000                                                             40,000         40,000
4. Incremental Recu.rent Cost
a. Salary Support
I Cureiculum Development Officer - /         TK750-75-1300                         1,400       1,600        1,700                       4,700                        4,700
1 Denver                                     TK140-7-250                             270         280          290                         840                          840
2 Clerks                                     Tx220-1S                                800         900          960                       2,660                        2,660
sub-total                                                                    2,470        2,780        2,950                       8,200                       8,200
25-i Salary ..    djutent                                                      630          720          750                      2,100                        2,100
Sub-totol                                                                    3,100        3,500        3,700                      10,300                       10,300
Contingencies                                                                  100          300          400                         800                          800
TOTAL - Slaries                                                              3,200        3,800        4,100                      11,100                       11,100
b. Oper-ting Cost
Vehicle and Special Equipment Maintesasce                                     2/  1,650         1,650       1,650                       4,950                        4,950
Convrysnc-  Allowance for Comsittee  emhbers 10 members n TK25 n 80 meetings    2,700                                                   2,700                        2,700
Travel end Per Dim Allnvannes foe 12
Cosmittee Members                          T1200 per meeting                    8,500                                                 8,500                        8,500
Printing, Psblinbihg and Coordination
of Curricoilu                              TKS x 30,000 copies                 19,900                                               19,900                        19,900
Honoraria to Recourse Persons for
Teachers' T-aining                         TKSO s 980 resoorce persons          6,500        6,500        6,500                      19,500                       19,500
Truvel and Pee Dime Allowances for
Trainees                                   TK250 x 1750 trainees               57,900       57,900       57,900                    173,700                      173,700
Preparotion of Troining Materials                                                 4,000        4,000        4,000                      12,000                       12,000
Cost of Audiovisual Center                                                         6.600       2700         2700                       12.000                       12.000
Sab-total                                                                  107,750       72,750       72,750                    253,250                      253,250
Contingegncs                                                                 5,950       1I OS        17.350                     34.350                       34 3
TW   - Opere-tng Cost                                                      113,700       83,800       90,100                    287,600                      287,600
TOTAL - Incrementol Renureent Cost                                         116,900       87,600       94,200                    298,700                      298,700
TOTAL - CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT AND
TRAINING OF TEACHERS                                               163.320     A87.60        94,20                      298.700 0                    345.0
D.  NATIONAL SEMINAR ON POPULATION EDUCATION
1. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Operating Cost
honoraria tn Paper Writers                                                           500                                                  500                          500
Travel asd Per Diet Allowances                                                     1,500                                                1,500                        1,500
Secretarial  Services                                                              1,500                                                1,500                        1,500
Stationery, Pr-nting and Publication                                                 300                                                  300                          300
Sob- t.oel                                                                   3,800                                                3,800                        3,800
ContinScncies                                                                  200                                                   200                          200
TOTAL - NATIONAL SEMINAR ON POPULAnON
EDUCATION                                                            4_000                                                4_000                        4,000
E.  INTERhAL EVALUATION
Special Studies for C-rric-lum D-eelnpment                                               3.000         3.000       3.000                      9.000                       9N000
TOTAL - INTERNAL EVALUATION                                                  3_000        3.000        3,000                      9,000                        9.000
ISTERNAL EVALUATION
Incremeneal Recurreet CIst                                                            3,000        3.000       5,000                       9.000                        9,000
Sub-cotal                                                                    3,000        3,000        3,000                       3,000                       3,000
TOTALS
Vehicles                                                                             22,800                                                             22,800         22,800
SpecIal Eqnip-ntJ 3,500                                                                                                                                  3,300          3,300
Technic-l AsIsitance                                                                 44,000                                                             44,000         44,000
Inccenesta' Recurrent Cost                                                          151,900     127,900      128,620          400        408,820                      408,820
Cct-ge-cics                                                                           9  900      18.300      28.580          -           55.380         1,400         56Z780
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                                              231_900      146,200      157.200          400                       71.20  1.50  535,700
a/' .:_ :.:. r* -E .sac-era' tra rltn
I: ur., 2G ea-r Co- necususry



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION FOR POPULATION PROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
|  -NSTRY OF 
.EDUCATION
EDUC-TON
S ECETRYFT  
ENCALA            OFN              ETBO                                                                                                           RGAT NODE
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1                                                                     -P- 
AUPI   lDRI              ABPII   AIE BE- 
SPECIALISTS
P__  _ DDIOMRCIiRRDiOh                                                                   .SHOL                           CENTER S
'ARRIID,SDRDUM Ps,0.,." B.cr,SPN
|SCROOLS  l     lSCHCOLE



ANNEX 12
Appendix I
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Population Program Officer of the Ministry
of Education
1.        The population program officer will be responsible for integration
of population control programs in the the Ministry's ongoing activities and
for the implementation of the pilot schemes. In particular, he will have
the responsibility for:
(a) Keeping liaison with the PPD and the PPS;
(b)  Submitting quarterly reports to the PPD;
(c) Arranging for the work of the Curriculum Development
Committee;
(d) Arranging for internal evaluation of the scheme
analysis of routine data and feedback of the results
of evaluation to the staff of the scheme and the Director
of Public Instruction ;
(e) Feedback of the results of evaluation to the field staff;
(f) Making suitable modification in the scheme based on
the results of evaluation;
(g) Ensuring effective supervision of the scheme and
making field visits for supervision of pilot scheme.
Qualifications
2.        Preferably a senior civil servant from the ministry concerned.



ANlNEX 12
Appendix II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Population Education Adviser of the MLinistry of Education
1.        To assist the Ministry of Education in the development of population
education through:
(a) Advice to senior officials in the Ministry of Education
on the broad spectrum of population education.
(b) Assistance in developing staff and committee mechanisms for
the continuing activity of coordinating and planning groups,
subject work groups, and ad hoc groups on special topics.
(c) Advice to professionals in education to help determine specific
emphasis, age and grade levels for the several areas of
content comprising education on population problems.
(d) Assistance to curriculum committees for various school levels in
preparing syllabus material, reading and reference lists,
tape recordings and related instructional aids.
(e) Consulting with officials of the several teacher training
institutions on building population education components
into the basic teacher education curricula.
(f) Assistance to the population program officer in development of
educational material for the mobile population education team
and for the teachers' seminar in pilot thanas.
2.        Qualifications:
High academic qualifications (preferably Master's degree in
education or behavioral sciences) with experience in education planning,
curriculum development and in managing population education or related
programs.



ANNEX 13
Page   1
BANGLADESHI
POPULATION PROJECT
Population Program of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
1.        The Departments of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
most concerned with population are Radio Bangladesh, Mfass Communications,
Press Information and, eventually, the Films Department. Television is not
yet considered to be of great importance as its signals are confined to the
Dacca area and there are very few receiving sets. This annex describes
the existing facilities for ongoing programs in these departments of the
Ministry, summarizes the proposed organization at the Ministry to plan and
coordinate population program efforts and outlines the individual schemes
to support the population program information (see organizational chart 9410).
At the end a note on overall evaluation of the Mlinistry's program is also added.
I. Ongoing Program
2.        Radio Bangladesh:  Approximately, 600,000 radio sets are reDorted
in the country and each set supposedly covers about 50 persons.   Therefore,
about 30 million persons are estimated to be radio listeners at present.
Different nation building programs are transmitted on the radio for the rural
population. During the War of Independence radios were an important channel
of communication. In support of the Government's goal of increasing food
production Bangladesh Radio has given renewed attention to agricultural broad-
casting. A daily one-hour program at prime listening time features experts
in all phases of agriculture and includes sufficient entertainment value to
to appeal to audiences. The logs indicate that some programs on family planning
have been broadcast. The Dacca station has a daily schedule of fourteen to
fifteen hours of broadcasting. In addition there is a network of five medium
wave transmitting stations at Rajshashi, Rangpur, Chittagong, Khulna and
Sylhet. Radio Bangladesh enjoys good credibility among rural people. Prime
listening time in rural areas is from 1900 to 2000 hours and for urban
audiences 2100 to 2300 hours. It is uncertain how many of the radio receivers
are worklni due to lack of spare parts and batteries.
3.        Mass Communications:  This department shows films through a fleet
of fifty-six mobile vans and organizes talks and group meetings. It also
has about 90 Public Relations Officers working. at headquarters and in the
field. Of these, 18 are district public relations officers supervising the
work of 70 sub-division PROs and these are already doing some family
planning information work.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        Department of Films:  This is a large department.  Among a staff
of 118 people, 55 are engaged in film production. At the moment, no
laboratory and processing is done through the Film Development Corporation
which is already overloaded with commercial production (250 feature films
a year) and this causes grave delays in the production work of the Films De-
partment. This is particularly serious in the field of news reels. The news
reels and documentaries are made on 35 mm film and are shown in over 200 com-
mercial cinema halls and 70 mobile units. The showing of these films is
compulsory and the Department makes 20 copies of each film to circulate from
cinema to cinema. The cinema is extremely popular in Bangladesh as it is
in the rest of the sub-continent and wherever possible the films all have a
strong emotional content. Until now the Department has concentrated on
cinema exhibition since the reduction to 16 mm facilities are inadequate and
the Department considers that projectors of commercial cinemas are less lilcely
to break dovn than official 16 mm distribution. The films inform and educate
about national events and the progress and development made in different
sectors of national life. Professionally the quality of the films is very
good.
5.        Press Information Department:  This department helps in disseminating
information through feature articles, personal interviews, stories, poems,
short dramas in newspapers, periodicals and magazines as well as providing
material for radio and television.
6.        The project will make use of the work of the four departments de-
scribed above on a pilot basis as well as by giving general program support.
The pilot scheme, in the Department of Mass Communication, is for a wider
and more intensive use of audiovisual vans for showing films on population
problems.
7.        The general support consists of:
a.   establishing a Population Planning Cell in Radio
Bangladesh,
b.   support to the Department of Films so that they can
overcome the laboratory bottle-neck and enlarge their
production staff and equipment for production of family
planning films in both 35 mm and 16 mm to strengthen
the population program,
c.   setting up a Population Feature Writers Bureau which
will provide regular material for the press in general,
written in a style to suit the public taste,
d.   training of 90 public relations officers in the population
program.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
II. Organization of the Population Program in the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
8.        The appointment of a population program officer (PPO) in the
Ministry at the level of the Deputy Director has been proposed. The PPO
should report directly to the Joint-Secretary of the Ministry. Since there
will be a pilot scheme and four general support schemes within the Ministry,
the role of the PPO will be important. The PPO will be particularly
responsible for the pilot scheme. An adviser for six man-months will assist
the PPO in detailed preparation and evaluation of the schemes. (The terms
of reference of the PPO and advisers are given in Appendix I.) An Evaluation
Unit at the Ministry has been established.
III. Pilot Scheme
Use of Mobile Cinema Vans
9.        Objective:  By using the powerful emotional impact of the film
a major motivational compaign will be launched to influence the public towards
family planning. At the same time a regular film contact will be maintained
with the public to inform and educate them on population problems and ways
and means of solving them.
10.       Content:  Pending local production by the Films Department selected
films from appropriate countries will be dubbed in Bengali. The Films De-
partment will produce a series of films on all aspects of the population
problem most of which will be made with a strong emotional appeal, but
there will be a few with a straight-forward informative nature. The audio-
visual vans will exhibit the films and some of them will give daylight
shows especially for those women who do not go out at night while
others will give evening shows for large audiences.  The vans wln also be
able to give more intimate showings of films on family planning techniques.
Since half the value of a motivational film show is in its presentation,
special attention will be given to the training of the PROs who will present
the films. They will also be responsible for providing feedback as to audience
reaction to the Ministry and Evaluation Unit of the PPD.
11.       Coverage:  The pilot scheme would cover all eight thanas (two
in each region) during the three-year implementation period. Only four con-
centrated thanas will be covered in the first year; the rest of the four
thanas in the second year.
12.       Expected Results:  About 150 shows by each mobile unit in a year
are expected to be arranged. With two mobile vans it would mean an average



ANNEX 13
Page 4
of 30 shows per month in a thana with about 100 villages having a total
population of around 180,000. The mobile vans would visit each village about
four times a year. It is not possible to estimate the number of persons
motivated to practice family planning as a result of these film shows.
13.       Administration:  The Department of M4ass Communications in colla-
boration with the Film Department will implement the pilot scheme. The
public relations officer would organize the programs in the field. The
PPO will have specific responsibility for the administration of the scheme.
An audiovisual engineer, along with the supporting staff, would help in super-
vising maintenance of all equipment in the project. Both the PPO and the
audiovisual engineer would receive training/orientation abroad for three
months each. While the former will visit communication research institutes
the latter will visit the countries and firms supplying the bulk of the
equipment to be maintained. The maintenance section of the Mass Communi-
cation Department will service the projectors for all the ministries.
14.       Evaluations:  While the external evaluation of the schemes will
be conducted by the PPS of the Planning Commission, the internal evalua-
tion within the Ministry would consist of regular reporting and special
studies in collaboration with the PPD at the MOHPP.
a.   Regular Reporting:  The operators will send to public
relations officers (PROs) monthly reports on (i) the number
of film shows put on in different areas, (ii) the number of
adult males and females who attended the shows, (iii)
types of questions asked after the show, and (v) the general
response to the shows. The PROs would consolidate the
reports by union, and add brief notes of their obser-
vations on maintenance of the equipment, organization of the
film shows, and response of the public to the shows. As
far as possible, about 15 persons from the audience should
be interviewed after the show to ascertain whether the
show conveyed the message clearly. Reports on such obser-
vations will be useful for revising the films or to give
adequate oral explanations on common points of doubt before
or after subsequent film shows. The PROs will send monthly
reports to the PPO at headquarters, who will circulate the
reports to concerned departments of the Ministry.
b.   Special Studies:  Fulnds would be provided to the Ministry
of Information and Broadcasting by the PPD for the following
special studies: (i) pre-testing of films for their effec-
tiveness (at headquarters), (ii) the number and percentage
of villages in which film shows are organized, in each union
of the thana, (iii) the estimated number of males and females
who attended the shows, by union, (iv) a quarterly review
at the thana and ministry levels of operators and PROs on
the organization of the film shows, and the response



ANNEX 13
Page  5
of the public to the film shows) with the purpose of
taking appropriate action to remedy deficiencies
either in the organization of the shows or in the films them-
selves. Additional evaluation studies are suggested at the
end of this annex.
Staff and Other Requirements
15.       Personnel:
a.   A population program officer (PPO) to keep liaison with
other departments, hold briefings of field staff, arrange
for a steady supply of publicity material and to be in
charge of documentation of material at headquarters;
b.   One audiovisual engineer for maintenance and repair of
projectors and supervising the technical staff;
c.   Audiovisual mechanic-cum-operators (16) for the
sixteen vans;
d.   One sound mechanic and one dynamo mechanic for assistance
to the audiovisual engineer;in
e.   Sixteen drivers for the vans; and
f.   Office staff - steno typist, driver and peons.
16.       Vehicles and Equipment:
a.   Eight closed-door cinema vans fitted with movie
projectors and accessories - one for each thana;
b.   Eight open-air cinema vans fitted with movie
projectors and accessorties - one for each thana; and
c.   Spare parts, etc. together with the 56 projectors
already in use.
17.       Operating Costs:  Maintenance and installation expenses for the
vans and funds for internal evaluation.



ANNEX 13
Page 6
~8.       Work Schedule:
a.   appointment of the PPO;                                   March 1975
b.   completion of local and foreign training
of the PPO;                                               July 1975
c.   order of equipment and vehicles;                          July 1974
d.   appointment of audiovisual engineer;                      March 1974
e.   completion of local and foreign
training of audiovisual engineer;                         July 1975
f.   review of schemes in four thanas;                         December 1976
g.   preparation of the second-year action plan;                January 1977
h.   review of schemes in four old and four new thanas;
and                                                       December 1977
i.   review of schemes in all eight thanas.                    December 1978
19.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is US$430,700.  The detailed
cost estimates are given in the table at the end of this annex.
V. Program Support
Establishing a Population Program Cell in Radio Bangladesh
29.       Objective:  To create a unit in Radio Bangladesh whose sole purpose
will be to ensure that sufficient program and air time for population and
family planning matters are available both at the Dacca station as well as
at the five other regional stations. This unit will be responsible for
producing programs of its own devising as well as influencing other producers
to introduce population/family planning themes into their own programs. It
will make sure that the material is presented in a manner that will appeal
to the public.
30.       Content:  The Ministry will give from 10-15 minutes each day of prime
time from the Dacca station which will be exclusively concerned with the
population program as well as ensuring that other programs contain suitable
population material inspired by the population program cell. The following
are some of the programs proposed:
a.   Pannel discussions and talks by experts on population
planning;



ANNEX 13
Page 7
b.   Features, short plays and local songs projecting themes
on population planning;
c.   Interviews with a cross section of people, particularly
those who are regular users of family planning methods;
O
d.   Documentary programs on various population planning units,
implementation bodies, centers and cells;
e.   Motivation songs and musical sketches on population
planning.
31.       Administration:  A director will be attached to Radio Bangladesh
for the development and broadcast of population programs. In each of the
six regional radio stations a producer will be appointed for ensuring the
production of programs with suitable local content and their regular
broadcast.
32.       Coverage:  The six stations, namely Dacca, Chittagong, Rajshahi,
Rangpur, Khulna and Sylhet cover 85% of the population. The programs will
be specially designed for adults as well as children.
33.       Expected Results:  Depending on the types of broadcasts and their
frequency, it is expected that a large section of the population will become
aware of population problems and of the Government's policies and programs.
34.       Evaluations:  The external evaluation will be conducted by the
PPS at the Planning Commission. The internal evaluation to be conducted
in collaboration with PPD at the MOHPP should be geared towards the listeners'
survey to determine the impact of various types of programs and suitability
of their timing. The results of internal evaluation should be readily fed
back to the producer for continuous program improvement.
a.   Regular Reporting:  Assistant regional directors will send
monthly reports to project headquarters on the number of
broadcasts put on regional radio by (i) category, (ii) theme,
(iii) duration, (iv) timing, (v) target population, (male or
female) and (vi) important participants, where appropriate.
b.   Special Studies:  A survey of radio listeners should
be undertaken to evaluate this scheme. (Details are
given at the end of this annex.)



ANNEX 13
Page 8
Staff and Cther Requirements
35.       Personnel:
a.   A director for coordination of the program;
b.   Six assistant regional directors for production and
broadcast of the programs from regional stations;
c.   Six program producers responsible for production and
broadcasting - one for each station;
d.   Six program organizers - one for each station;
e.   Six stenographers - one for each station;
f.   Seven typists - one for each station and one
for headquarters; and
g.   Two drivers and one peon.
36.       Vehicles and Equipment:
a.   One mobile recording van and two 4-wheel drive vehicles
for the assistant director and producer for supervisory
field trips and collection of feedback information for
the production of suitable programs;
b.   Tape recorders (seven portable and six non-portable) -
two for each of the six stations and one for headquarters;
c,   Typewriters - (seven Bengali and seven English) - two for
each station and one for headquarters*
37.       Operating Costs:
a.   Funds for honoraria, fees, travel, per diem, etc.
for the writers;
b.   Funds for maintenance of vehicles; and
c.   Funds for internal evaluation.



ANNEX 13
Page 9
38.       Work Schedule:
a.   Appointment of the staff;                                 March 1975 -
b.   Order of equipment;                                       July 1975
c.   Consolidation of internal evaluation reports
for the first annual review;                              December 1976
d.   Preparation of the second-year action plan;               January 1977
e.   Consolidation of internal evaluation report
for the second annual review;                             December 1977
f.   Preparation of the third-year action plan; and            January 1978
g.   Consolidation of final report summarizing the
results of the three years.                               December 1978
39.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$362,600.
The details are given in the table at the end of this Annex.
Support of the Films Department
40.       Objective:  To use what is considered to be the most powerful mass
media - the film - for population and family planning motivation and educa-
tion. To this end films on population matters will be made in local set-
tings. In order that this program can be carried out the Film Department
will need extensive additional equipment in order to overcome laboratory
delays, to be able to convert its present 35 mm productions to 16 mm and to
undertake direct production of 16 mm training films. At the same time,
the staff will need to be increased as the present production team is already
overscheduled. The Film Department will put one film on population into imme-
diate production as part of its normal program. But since there will then
be a delay before there is regular production of films, arrangements will be
made to dub six carefully selected films from other appropriate countries.
Pending the installation of necessary equipment this work may have to be
done outside Bangladesh.
41.       Content:  Apart from the direct emotional-appeal films, some of
the themes on which films will be produced are as follows:
a.   General motivation to population planning in
relation to the special circumstances of Bangladesh;
b.   Population problem in relation to the food situation
of Bangladesh;



ANNEX 13
Page 10
c.   Population problem in relation to employment
and other economic resources of Bangladesh;
d.   Social-ills and vices and other social problems due
to over-population;
e.   Population problem in relation to the health problems
in the context of Bangladesh;
f.   Population problem in relation to the available and
potential educational facilities in Bangladesh;
g.   Education and demonstration of family planning
methods; and
h.   Technical education for implementation of family
planning program.
42.       Coverage:  A large section of the population over seven years
of age will be reached either through the 270 commercial cinemas or the
forty mobile projectors being purchased under this program or by the
fifty-six projectors already in use by the Mass Communications Depart-
ment. There are also other projectors in use in various places but these
have not as yet been surveyed.
43.       Expected Results:  Approximately 14 films with a total running
time of five hours will be produced during the three-year period; on an
average five films a year, although the production during the first year
may be less. Approximately 50% will be in color. There will also be one
feature-length film of approximately 100 minutes duration produced during
the second year. These films will be seen by the ordinary cinema goers many
of whom come from nearby rural areas and whose numbers are estimated at
roughly 500,000 a day. They will also be seen by means of the project's
own fleet of 59 projectors and here they will have the advantage of being
presented in a manner which it is hoped will make their effectiveness much
greater. All the films will be pre-tested before public exhibition.
44.       Administration:  The Director of the Department of Films, with
the assistance of a film producer, would be responsible for the administra-
tion of the program.
45.       Evaluations:  While the external evaluation will be done
by the PPS of the Planning Commission, the internal evaluation will be con-
ducted by the Evaluation Unit of the Ministry in collaboration with the PPD
at the MIOHPP. The simplest evaluation to be done routinely is in terms of
(i) production of various categories of films by target dates, and (ii) the
number of film shows presented in cinema halls and through open-air mobile
units compared to the targets set, year by year.   The themes for the films
and method of presentation for different types of population may be decided



ANNEX 13
Page 11
in consultation with experts in the field.   Equally important, if not more
important than this, is a quick audience survey before the films are finalized
and several copies made.   Appropriate sections of the population should
be shown the films to ascertain whether the important information which
each film purports to convey is adequately and clearly conveyed or not, and,
more importantly, to ensure that the films do not unintentionally convey
wrong ideas. While showing the films in final form, the audiences should
be requested to give their views regarding the content, presentation, timing,
etc., of the films.   Suggestions from the public should be taken into serious
consideration while reviewing the film production program. Other evaluation
studies required are given at the end of this annex.
Staff and Other Requirements
46.       Personnel:
a.   One film producer (i.e. director) for the Film Department;
b.   One assistant film producer (i.e. number two director);
c.   One scriptwriter;
d.   One cameraman and one assistant cameraman;
e.   One film editor;
f.   One production manager; and
g.   Technical assistance for installation of equipment.
Since training films will be a new venture for the Films Department the
film producer will be selected in consultation with the PPD and the PPS.
If necessary a consultant will be provided for two or three months to advise
on the necessary technical approaches to the production of training films.
47.       Vehicles and Equipment:
a.   One film shooting van for production purposes.
b.   Laboratory equipment for processing 35 mm and 16 mm
negatives, for reducing 35 mm film to 16 mm,-sound
recording equipment for 16 nm production, and extra
35 mm and 16 mm camera equipment.
48.       Operating Costs:  Funds for film production and for dubbing
foreign films, for maintenance of vehicles and special equipment.



ANNEX 13
Page 12
49.       Work Schedule:
a.   Appointment of personnel                                    March 1975
b.   Order of vehicles and equipment                             June 1975
c.   Production of films for 1976
- General motivation of population planning
- Technical education to field workers of family
planning project
- Population problem and limited educational
facilities
-    Population problem and health problems
d.   Review of films produced in 1976 for their impact
e.   Production of films for 1976
- Growth of social ills and vices on account
of over-populan
- Population problem and food scarcity
- Demonstration of family planning methods
- Over-population and housing problems
- Full-length feature film on population planning
f.   Review of films produced in 1977                            December 1977
g.   Production of films for 1978
- Population problem and insufficient land
holdings; feuds and clashes between rural
groups of population
- Population and problems of the house-wife
(featurized documentary)
- Problems of young educated girls and population
planning



Page 13
- Creating consciousness of over-population
problems in the minds of children (featurized
documentary)
- Miseries of lower-middle class and working
class families due to over-population
(featurized documentary)
h.   Review of films produced in 1978                          December 1978
50.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$1,043,300.
The details are in the table at the end of this annex.
Setting up a Feature Writing Bureau
51.       Objective:  Dissemination of information on the population program
through publication of articles, features, personal interviews, stories, poems,
short drama, cartoons, etc. in newspapers, periodicals and magazines and
through radio and television broadcasts.
52.       Contents:  The Feature Waiting Bureau which is to be established
under the Press Information Department will prepare material on the population
problem for publication as well as for broadcast. The Bureau will maintain
regular contact with the Population Planning Division, Bangladesh Institute
of Development Studies, Health Division of IOHPP, Planning Commission and
other ministries for the collection of material from which suitable themes
on population planning will then be prepared and supplied to journalists,
authors, poets, literatures, economists, etc. to write articles, features,
stories, poems, short dramas, etc. on a honorarium basis. The cooperation
of journalists will also be enlisted to interview various cross-sections of
the people and to write personal reviews from them. The Bureau will then
edit them, select cartoons or photographs for their illustration and release
them for publication through the Press. Cartoons showing the negative effects
of large families and over-population on our social and economic life can also
be regularly published through newspapers and periodicals.
53.       Coverage:  The literate urban population will be covered through
the press and a large part of the illiterate rural-urban population will
be covered through radio and cartoons.
54.       Expected Results:  On an average four articles, four features, four
personal interviews, three stories, three poems, one short drama and six
cartoons will be published or broadcast/telecasted in a month.
55.       Administration:  The head of the Press Information Bureau will be
responsible for the administration of the program. He will have additional
staff consisting of feature writers, artists, etc. specifically for this
program.



AINEX 1 3
Page 14
56.       Evaluations:  The external evaluation will be done by the PPS
at the Planning Commission. The internal evaluation to be done in collaboration
with PPD at the MIOHPP should assess the impact of articles, dramas, features
or cartoons by inviting comments and suggestions of readers.
Staff and Other Reauirements
57.       Personnel:
a.   One chief feature writer for planning and writing
important features;
b.   One assistant feature writer/editor for providing
suitable written material to the chief feature writer;
c.   One artist for designing cartoons and sketches;
d.   One translator for translating sketches, articles
and features from other languages to Bengali;
e.   One photographer;
f.   One steno/typist for English and Bengali;
g.   One typist - Bengali;
h.   One driver for headquarters; and
i.   One peon for headquarters.
58.       Vehicles and Equipment:
a.   One four-wheel drive vehicle for headquarters;
b.   Camera and accessories; and
c.   Office equipment.
59.       Operating Costs:
a.   Honoraria to contributors;
b.   Maintenance of vehicles; and
c.   Office supplies.



60.       Work Schedule:
a.   Appointment of staff;                                       March 1975
b.   Test development of features, dramas,
articles, etc.;                                             October 1975
C.   Analysis of evaluation of the above activities;             March 1976
d.   Preparation of plans of action up to
December 1976;                                              December 1975
e.   Review of the operation of the plan;                        December 1976
f.   Preparation of plan for 1977;                               December 1976
g.   Review of 1977 operations;                                  December 1977
h.   Preparation plan for 1978; and                              December 1977
i.   Review of the three years of operations.                    December 1978
61.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$106,800.
The details are given in the table at the end of this annex.
Training of Public Relations Officers
62.       Objective:  To orient the public relations officers (information
officers) of the Ministry on the motivational aspects of the population
programs. There are 90 PROs and in the field they will be responsible
for supporting all program activities that concern the general public.
63.       Content:  Initially a fifteen-day orientation course will be
provided at Dacca for groups of 15-20 officers at a time. Subsequently
reorientation courses will be arranged in the second and third years of
the program. The topics to be covered will range from the statement
of the population problem to various communication techniques. Since
the major communication media used in the project is the film, special emphasis
will be given to presenting film shows in the most effective way and follow-
up after the show has ended.
64.       Coverage:  All 90 public relations officers (PROs) will receive
orientation training during the first year of operation of the schemes.
Priority in orientation will be given to the PROs in the pilot. thanas.
65.       Administration:  The Director of the Department of Mass Communi-
cation will be responsible for the implementation of the program with the



Z2SNN.EX 13
Page1 6
assistance o. one coordination and training officer.  Rei.ance will be
placed on guest lecturers for actual training.
66.       Evaluations:  The external evaluation will be done by the PPS at
the Planning Commission. The internal evaluation to be conducted in colla-
boration with the PPD at the INOHPP will assess the effectiveness of training
given to the PROs by administering tests, before and after training to
measure the improvement in their knowledge of population problems and
communication techniques. The training program of each groups will be
evaluated to determine the understanding of the problem. Further follow-up
of the PROs' activities will be achieved by assessing the operational impact
on the training.
Staff and Other Requirements
67.       Personnel:
a.   One training officer and an assistant for making
arrangements for training and preparation of training
material; and
b.   One typist, one driver and one peon.
68.       Vehicles and Equipment:
a.   One 4-wheel drive vehicle;
b.*  Two typewriters; and
c.   One cyclostyle machine.
69.       Operating Costs:
a.   Honoraria for one lecturer;
b.   Per diem and travel expenses for participants; and
c.   Office supplies.
70.       Work Schedule:
a.   Appointment of staff;                                    March 1975
b.   Order of equipment;                                       April 1975
c.   Completion of orientation;                                October 1975
d.   Review of impact of orientation;                          December 1976



ANN EX  3
Page 17
e.   Reorientation of PROs;                                    October 1977
f.   Review of reorientation; and                              December 1977
g.   Second reorientation of PROs.                             October 1978
71.       Cost:  The total cost of the scheme is estimated at US$36,600.
The details are given in the table at the end of this annex.
Overall Evaluation of the Additional Facilities in the Ministry
of Information and Broadcasting
72.       For evaluating the five projects of the Ministry based on the
routine reports and special surveys suggested, there should be an evaluation
unit in the Ministry. With the exception of the training scheme for PROs,
the remaining four can adequately be evaluated only through special surveys.
It is suggested that a comprehensive survey be undertaken by about the end
of 1975 or mid-1976 to evaluate together the activities of the four schemes.
73.       One rural and one urban sample should be taken for the survey.
The scheme, namely, audiovisual (AV) vans, would operate in rural parts of
eight thanas (two in each district), while the remaining three schemes cover
the entire country. Four thanas, two concentrated and two other pilot thanas
in which the above-mentioned scheme operates, should be selected. These
should be in the four regions of the country, and therefore, in four dif-
ferent districts. Four other thanas also should be selected from these
districts. Of the remaining districts, one should be selected from each
region, and within each of the selected districts two accessible thanas
should be selected. Thus, the survey should cover 16 thanas in eight districts
- two districts from each region. From these 16 thanas, a rural sample of
about 1,200 households should be drawn, and all married males and females in
the households should be interviewed with the assistance of a questionnaire.
A separate sample of 1,200 urban households in the four regions should also
be included in the survey. These samples would provide data for comparison
of the scheme effects on married males and females in urban areas where
only the three schemes operate, as well as in rural areas in which all four
sclhemes operate.
74.       The interview questionnaire should include in addition to others,
the following important questions (where appropriate), relating to the five
schemes to be evaluated:
a.   AV vans:  Whetlier a van visited the area and, if
visited, whether the respondent attended or learned
about this show; if attended, his/her response and
suggestions regarding organization of the show, the
contents and presentation.



ANNEX 3 3
Page 1 8
b.   Radio Program:  Whether the household owns or haas ready
access to a radio; respondent's radio listening habits
or preference regarding frequency, timing and types of
programs; any radio program relating to population heard
during the month preceding interview; if heard,identifica-
tion of program and station and when; information
respondent got from each program; respondent's views
about the clarity, trustworthiness/authenticity of
information, on the timing, duration and frequency of each
type of program heard.
c.   Films:  Respondent's overall frequency of going to movies
and number of times during the last two months; any film
relating to population seen during the last two months;
if seen, what was the message and what was the respondent's
view about the clarity of message, etc.
d.   Feature Writing:  Respondent's general reading habits;
whether respondent has read (or heard about) any of the
Ministry's publications; if read (or heard about the
contents) respondent's grasp of important points from
each publication; respondent's comments and suggestions.
75.       The project provides for one Evaluator (Social Scientist) and two
statistical assistants, and two calculators for internal evaluation of all
schemes of the Ministry based on routine reports. In addition, a provision
is made for an evaluation survey to be conducted in 1975 either by the
Ministry itself or by contracting out to a suitable research institution.
Evaluation of the films would be based on personal interviews after the films
have been shown in selected movie theaters.



Page 19
CC3T ESTICEAS OF POPULATION PRtOGRAM OF TNHE MINISTRY OF INFOQSATION ANJ  EROADCASTING
U. S. $
Basis of Estination snd Phasiu    1975-76       1976-77                  1978-79       Local         For.ign       Total
A. OFFICE OF POPULATION PROGRAM OFFICER
1. Vehicles
1 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                     $5,700                               5,700                                                             5,700         5,700
Contingencies                                                                 300                                                              300            300
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                            6,000                                                            6,000          6,000
2. Special EsuipYnt
I Typewriter                                   $400                                   400                                                               4nO           400
TOTAL - Special Equipment                                                     400                                                              400            400
3. Technical Assistance
I  Cossicationa Adviser                        6-c                                 20,000                                                            20,000        20.000
Fell-wship for Population Program Officer       3t                                  4.000                                                             4.000         4,000
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                               24,000                                                            24,000        24,000
4. Increnental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary
I Population PrograS  Officer               TK750-75-1,300                       1,600       1,700        1,900         350          5,550                       5,550
1 Steno-Typist                              TK220                                  4no         450          480                      1,330                       1,330
I Driver                                    TK140                                  270         280          290                        840                         840
1 Peon                                      1K8O                                   150          160         170                        480                         480
Sub-total                                                                   2,420       2,590        2,840         350          8,200                       8,200
Salary Adostmnnt                                                              605         650          710          50          2.015                       2.015
Sub-total                                                                   3,025       3,240        3,550         400         10,215                      10,215
Contingencies                                                                  75         260          350           _            685                         685
TOTAL - Salaries                                                            3.100       3,500        3,900         400         10,900                      10,900
b. Operating Cost
Vehicle Maintenance                                                              1,600        1,600       1,600                      4,800                       4,800
Office Furniture and Supplies                                                    2.000        1.000       1-000                      4.000                       4,000
Sub- total                                                                  3,600       2,600        2,600                      8,800                       8,800
Contingencies                                                                 200         400          600                      1.200                       1,200
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                      3,800       3,000        3,200                     10,000                      10,000
TOTAL -   Incremental Recurrent Cost                                        6,900       6,500        7,100         400         20,900                      20 .OC
TOTAL - OFFICE OF POPULATION PROGRFAM
OFFICER                                                           37.300        6.500       71             400        20.900        30.400         5,0
B. USE OF AUDIOVISUAL VANS
1. Vehicles
8 Equipped Closed-door Cinema Vans              $11,000 each                       88.000                                                            88,000        88,000
8 Equipped open  air Cinesa Vans                $10,000 each                       80 000                                                            80.000        80.000
Sb-total                                                                 168,000                                                          168,000        168,000
Contingencies                                                               9.200                                                            9.200          9.200
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                          177,200                                                          177,200        177,200
2. Special Eouip.nt
Spare Parts and Kits                           $28,000 G08 eat,                    28,000                                                            28,000        28,000
Contingencies                                                               1.500                                                            1,500          1,500
TOTAL - Special Equipsent                                                 29,500                                                            29,500         29,500
3. Technical Assistance
Fellowship for Audiovisual Engineer                                                 4,000                                                             4,000         4,000
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                                4,000                                                            4,000          4,000
.m.. - ran car 'a
a. p-   r 5car
-  ,-r  _frth



Page 2C
C0rT iSTIMATES OF P0PULATION PROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF INPORM6TIONS AND BR0A0CAST;NO
U. S. S
Basis of Estimation and Phasing   1975-76        1976-77      1977-78    1978-79       Local         Forin         Total
4. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
1 Audiovisual Engineer                      TK750-75-1,300                       1,600       1,700        1,800         350          5,450                       5,450
16 Audiovisual Mechanics/Operators           TK375-35-550; To provide main-    11,200        12,160       12,960                     36,320                      36,320
tenance service to other Minis-
tries as well
1 Sound Mechanic                                                                   590         630          670                      1,890                       1,890
1 Dynamo Mechanic                           11(310-20                              590         630          670                      1,890                       1,890
16 Motor Van Drivers                         TK220-15-400                         6.020        6.980       7.400          _          20.400                      20.400
Sub-total                                                                  20,000      22,100       23,300         350         65,930                      65,950
Salary Adjustment                                                           5.000       5,500        5.800          50         16.350
Sub-total                                                                  25,000      27,600       29,300         400         82,300                      82,300
Contingencies                                                                 600       2.000        3.100          _           5,700                       5,700
TOTAL - Salaries                                                           25,600      29,600       32,400         400         88,000                      88,000
b. Operating Cost
Carriage and Installation Charges           SOB est.                            42,300                                              42,200                      42,300
Vehicle Maintenance                         TK1,000 p.m./p.v. (16)              25,400      25.400       25.400                     76.200                      76,200
Sub-total                                                                  67,600      25,400       25,400                    118,400                     118,400
Contingencies                                                               3.700       3.900        6.000                     13.600                      13,600
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                     71,300      29,300       31,400                    122,000                     122,000
TOTAL - Incremental Recurrent Cost                                         96,900      58,900       63,800         400        220,000                     220,000
TOTAL - AIDIOVISUAL VANS                                                 307,600      58,900                      400        220.000       210.700
POPULATION PROGRAM CELL IN RADIO BANGLADESH
1. Vehicles
I Mobile Recording Van including all
Accessories                                 $53,000 0OB est.                    53,000                                                            53,000        53,000
2 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                     $5,700 each                        11.400                                                            11,400         11.40
sob-total                                                                  64,400                                                           64,400         64,400
Contingencies                                                               3,500                                                           3,500           3.500
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                           67,900                                                            67,900        67,900
2. Special EquiP t3ent
1 Tape Recorder                                $3,600                               3,600                                                             3,600         3.603
7 Portable Tape Recorders                       $100 each                             100                                                               700           700
5 Standard Tape Recorders                       $1,100 each                         5,500                                                             5,500          5,500
Tapes for Tape Recorders                        0OB est.                            9,900                                                             9,900          9,900
7 Bengali Typewriters                           $400 each                           2,800                                                             2,800          2,800
7 English Typewriters                           $400 each                          2,800                                                              2.800          2.800
sub-total                                                                  25,300                                                            25,300        25,300
Contingencies                                                               1.300                                                             1.300         1.300
TOTAL - Special Equipent                                                   26,600                                                            26,600        26,600
3. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
I Director for Coordination                 TK750-75-1,300                       1,600        1,700       1,900                      5,200                       5,200
6 Assistant Regional Directors              TK450-50-750                           860         950        1,050                      2,860                       2,860
6 Program Producers                         TK375-25-550                         4,200       4,560        4,860                     13,620                      13,620
6 Organizers                                TK375-25-550                         4,200       4,560        4,860                     13,620                      13,620
6 Stenographers                             TK220-15-400                         2,400       2,700        2,880                      7,980                       7,980
7 Typists                                   TK150-10-300                         2,030       2,140        2,270                      6,440                       6,440
2 Drivers                                   TK140-7-154                            540          560         580                      1,680                        1,680
1 Peon/Messenger                            TK80-3-110                             150          160         170                        480                         480
Sub-total                                                                  15,980      17,330       18,570                     51,880                      51,880
Salary Adjustment                      25%                                  4.020       4,370        4,630                     13.020                      13,020
Sub-total                                                                  20,000      21,700       23,200                     64,900                      64,900
Contingencies                                                                 600       1.600        2,600                      4.800                       4,800
TuTAL - SALARIES                                                           20,600      23,300       25,800                     69,700                      69,700



Onv5z( l2
Page 21
COSTESTRiAT2S OF HOPELMTTO PR GRkY OF  liE NINISTRY OF ItlO.I'AIION AN, SROADCASTING
U1. S. 
E.im of Estimation  nd Pbani.x    1975-76         1976-77   12Z7-78     1975-79       Local        Foreisn       Total
b. omr-ting Cost
Travel and Per Die. Allusances                 GOB est.                           1,300        1,300       1,300                      3,900                      3,900
Ho.oraria, Fees and Royalty                    GOB cat.                          47,800      47,800       47,800                   143,400                     143,400
Vehicle Maintenance                            TKI,000/mo/vehicle (2)             3,200        3,200       3,200                     9,600                       9,600
Publications                                  GOB est.                            2,700        2,700       2,700                     8,100                       8,100
Office Supplies                               GOB est.                            1,700        1,700       1,700                      5,100                      5,100
Special Equip-.t Maintenance                  57 of cost                            900          900         900                     2,700                       2,700
Sob-total                                                                  57,600      57,600       57,600                   172,800                     172,800
Contingencien                                                               3 200       8 70D       13,7 0                    25.600                      25 600
TO)TAL - Operating Cost                                                    60,800       66,300      71,300                    198,400                    198,400
TOTAL - Incremental Recurrent Cost                                         81,400       89,600      97,100                    268,100                    268,100
TOTAL - POPULATION PROGRAM CELI IN
RADIO bAINLADESS                                                  175.900      8            97,1                     268100         9            3626
D. STRENGTPENING OF THE DEPARTMET OF FILMS
1. Vahicles
1 File Shooting Van                           S10,000                            10,000                                                           10,000        10,000
Contingencies                                                                 600                                                              600           600
TCTAL - Vehicles                                                           10,600                                                           10,600        10,600
2. Special Eg.ipont
16m Filn Equipmnt - Production 6 Processing See separate listing for details 560,300                                                             660,300       660,300
35-n Fil. Froceasing & Reduction               See separate listing for details 169 500                                                          169 500       169,500
Sub-total                                                                 829,800                                                          829,800       829,800
Conti.gencies                                                              45 600                                                           45 6G0        45 600
TOTAL - Special Equipnt                                                   875,400                                                          875,400       875,400
3. Technical Assistance
1 Laboratory Technology Adviser               6nn (for installation of Lab.)   20,000                                                             20.000        20 000
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                               20,000                                                           20,000        20,000
4. Incre-nstal Recurrent Cost
a Salary Support
I Film Producer                            TK750-75-300                        1,400        1,500       1,600                      4,500                      4,500
I Assistant Film Producsr                  TX600-50-900                        1,100        1,200       1,300                      3,600                      3,600
1 Scriptvriter                             TE450-50-750                          900        1,000       1,100                      3,000                      3,000
1 Cameraman                                TK350-25-650                          700          720         760                      2,180                      2,180
1 Film Editor                              TK350-25-650                          700          720         760                      2,180                      2,180
1 Production Manager                       TR310-25-500                          590          640         690                      1,920                      1,920
1 Assistant Cbceraman                     1TK220-15-400                          420          450         480                      1,350                      1,350
2 Clerks                                   TK220-15-40                           840          900         960                      2,700                      2,700
1 Driver                                   T1K40-7-154                           270          280         290                        840                        840
Sub-total                                                                   6,920        7,410       7,940                     22,270                     22,270
Salary Adjunt-ent                                                           1.730        L850        1 990                     5,570                       5,570
Sub-total                                                                   8,650        9,260       9,930                    27,840                      27,840
Contingencies                                                                 250          640       1,070                      1,960                      1 960
TOTAL - Salaries                                                            8,900        9,900      11,000                    29,800                      29,800
S. O.er.tioR: Cost
Dubbing and Copying of File                                                      20,000                                                           20,000        20,000
Travel Allowances                              est.                               3,000                                               3,000                      3,000
Vehicle Maintenance                            TK1,000 p.J./p.v.                   1,600       1,600       1,600                      4,800                      4,800
Special Equipment Maintenance                  17 of cost only as spare parts     8,800        8,800       8,800                     26,400                     26,400
have been provided
Installation Charges                                                             39,700                                             39,700                      39,700
Office Furniture and Supplies                 est.                                3000         1.000       1 000                      5000                       5000
Sub-total                                                                  76,100       11,400      11,400                    78,900        20,000        98,900
Contingencies                                                               4.200        1 700       2.700                     7,500         1.100         8,600
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                     80,300       13,100      14,100                    86,400        21,100       107,500
TOTAL - Incre-mntal Recurrent Cost                                         89,200      23,000       25,100                    116,200       21,100       137,300
TOTAL - DEPARTMENT OF FILMS                                               995          2200         253100                   116,200        210          043300



ANNEX l
Page 22
CUST ESS'ZNATS C-P -OPULATION PR0GRAY, OPPE V1& INISTRY OZ LNPOlYJ.'IOi -ir BROADCASTING
Bseis of Estiation and Phasing         $lj         122          iU2         ..iZli         Lcl            oeg           Inl
E. Sgrnta, uP OF P'EACURE BRITRAI
1 Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                        $5,700                               5,700                                                                5,700          5,700
Contingencies                                                                    300                                                                  300            300
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                               6,000                                                                6,000          6,000
2. Special Equipeant
2 Cneras/Flash Cons                                                                     2,100                                                                2,100          2,100
2 Typewiters                                      $4.00 each                              So0                                                                  800            800
Sub-total                                                                      2,900                                                                2,90_02,0
Contingenc.ies                                                                   200                                                                  200            200
TOTAL, - Special Esuipant                                                      3,100                                                                3,100          3,100
3. In-re-tal Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
I Chief Feature writer/Editor                 TIC1,600-50-1,700                      3,050        3,150        3,240                       9,440                         9,440
1 Assistant Feature Writer                     Tlt750-75-1.300                       1,400        1,600        1,700                       4,700                         4,700
1 Artier                                      Tli450-35-800                            860          950        1,050                       2,860                        2,860
1 Traoslator/R.eserch Assistant               TK310-15-400                             390          630          670                       1,890                         1,690
1 Photographer                                TKt310-15-400                            590          630          670                       1,890                         1,890
I stenographer                                TK220-15-4G0                             400          450          480                       1,330                         1,330
I Resgeli Typist                              TKD15O-10-300                            290          310          320                         920                           920
1 Driver                                      TKI4O-7-154                              270          280          290                         S              84064
1 Peon/Sesseoger                              TKIRO-3-110                              150          160          170                         480                           480
Sub-total                                                                      7,-600       8,16-0       6,590                       24,350                       24.350
Salary Adjustaent                                                              1.900        2 040        2,1f0l909                                                 6,090
Sub-total                                                                      9,500       10,200       10,740                       30,440                       30,440
Contingencies                                                                    200          700        1602102.160
TOTAL - Salaries                                                               9,8oo       10,900       11,900                       32,600                       52,600
b. Operaing Cost
Honoraria to Contributors                                                            5,300        5,300        5,300                      15,900                        15,900
Travel AIlIwances                                                                    4,000        4,000        4,000                      12,000                        12,000
Vehicle Maintenne                                                                    1,600        1,600        1,600                       4,800                         4,800
Office Furniture, Supplies, Files, etc.                                              L9920        8,GDOl    ..&.92                        24.000                        24000
Sub-total                                                                     18,900       19,900       18,900                      56,700                        46,700
Contingencies                                                                  i.ooo        2j900        4500                        8.400                       8i5400
TOTAL, - Operating Cost                                                       19,900       21,900       23,400                       65,100                       65,100
TOTAL. - I-cerantal Recurreot Cost                                            29,700       32,700       33,300                       97,700                       97,700
TOTAL - FEATUREg BUREAU                                                       3890         32.700                                   97.003.10
F. TRAINTING OF PUIBLIC RELATIONS OFFICER
1. Vehicles
I Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle                        $5,700                                3,700                                                               5,700           5,700
Contingencies                                                                    300                                                                  300            300
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                               6,000                                                                6,D00          6,00-0
2. Special Esuipesnt
2 Typewriters                                     $400 each                               800                                                                  800            500
1 Photocpy Machine                                $1,200                                1,200                                                                1,200          1,200
1 Cyclostyle Machine                              $400                                    400                                                                  400            400
Sub-total                                                                      2,400                                                                2,400          2,400
Contingencies                                                                    100                                                                  200            100
TOtAL - Special Equipweut                                                      2,500                                                                2,500          2,-500
3. 1ncr-stal Resonaent Cost
a.Salary Support
1 Training Officer                            TK750-75-1,300                         1,400        1,600        1,700                       4,700                        4,700
1 Assistant Training Offifer                  TK310-                                   590          640          690                       1,920                        1,920
1 Typist                                      TK150                                    290          310          320                         920                           920
1 Driver                                      TK140                                    270          280          290                         840                           040
1 Peon                                        TK80                                     150          160          170                         480                           480
Dub-total                                                                      2,7700       2,-990       3,-170                       9,89630                      9~,86-0
Salary Adjustment                                                                675          750           790                       22215221
Sub-total                                                                      3-,3-75      3,7-40       3,960                       11,075                       11,075
Contingencies                                                                    125          260          440                      8jg5                             825
TOTAL - SalarIes                                          ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~3,500  4,000  4,400  11,900                    11,900



.i4Yjv Xll
?aRe 23
COSI ESTLMIATES OF POFULATION FROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING
Basis of Estination and Phasing    1975-76         1976-77   97 77                   Local         Foreign       Total
b. Operating Cost
Honoraria for Lecturers                     TK1O0 x 15 lectures x 5 batches    1,000        1,000                                  2,000                      2,000
HonOraria for Participants                 TK10/day.                           1,900          400                                  2,300                      2,300
(lat yr - 5 sen./20 p-rt./2 weeka
2nd yr - 5 san./20 p-rt./3 days
3rd yr - None)
Office Supplies                                                                3,000        1,000       1,000                      5,000                      5,000
Special Equipment Maintenance                                                  1,600        1,600       1,600                     4,800                       4,800
Vehicle Maintenance                                                               120         120         120                        360                        360
Sob-total                                                                 7,620       4,120        2,720                    14,460                      14,460
Contingencies                                                               480          680         580                      1 740                      1,740
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                    8,100       4,800        3,300                    16,200                      16,200
TOTAL - Incresn.tal Recurrent Cost                                       11,600       8,800        7,700                    28,100                      28,100
TOTAL - TRAINING OF PUBLIC RELATIONS
OFFICERS                                                         20 100       8.800        7.700                    28 1              00        36_600
G. INTERNAL EVALUATION
1. Special Equipnent
2 Calculators                                  $200                                 400                                                              400           400
S.b-total                                                                   400                                                              400           400
2. Incremental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Support
1 Evaluator                                TK750-75-1,3DW                      1,400        1,500       1,600                     4,500                       4,500
2 Statistical Assistmats                   TK220                                 800          900         960                      2-660                      2,660
Sub-total                                                                 2,200       2,400        2,560                     7,160                       7,160
Salary Adjustment                                                           550          600         640                     1.790                       1.790
Sob-total                                                                 2,750       3,000        3,200                     8,950                       8,950
Contingencies                                                                50          200         400                       650                         650
TOTAL - Salaries                                                          2,800       3,200        3,600                     9.600                       9,600
b. Operating Cost
Special Studies for All Schenes                                                13,200      13,200      13,200                     39,600                      39,600
Evaluation of Films                                                            1,300        1.300       1.300                      3.900                      3,900
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                   14,500       14,530      14,500                    43,500                      43,500
TOTAL - Incremental Recurrent Cost                                       17,300       17,700      18,100                    53,100                      53,100
TOTAL - INTERNAL EVALUATION                                              17.700       17.700                               53 1004003500
H. TOTALS
Vehicles                                          -                                259,500                                                          259,500       259,500
Special Equipment                                 -                                889,200                                                          889,200        89,200
Technical Asistane                                -                                 48,000                                                           48.000        48.000
SecremeetaS Recurrent Cost                        -                                318,220      213,260     217.000         800        729,280       20,000       749.280
Contingencies                                     -                                 77.680       23.940      37.200         _           74.820       64000        138,820
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF INFOMATION AND
BROADCASTING                                                  14200                                             600            12800 700



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF POPULATION PROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING
MINISTER
SECRETARY
JT. SECRETARY
PRESS                                 DEPARTMENT
INFORMATION                                OF MASS                      RADIO
IL                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPARTMENT                 CMUIA                           GAF
IPUBLIC                                COMMUNICA- |ARADIO
INFORMATION                                     TIONS                  DIRECTOR
OFFICER                                  DIRECTOR|
-RODU-CTIONO  PROG.                                                      DEPUTY                                                    DY. DIRECTR                              L DY. DIG
PRODUCTION       Ft M                  ~~~ADMIN. WINO                PULIC INFOR.                                            -    BNLDSlDY. DIR.                         Poll Vi0cC,
PRODCE*(DY. DIRECTOR)                                                                                                 AIHS                                   El
CONTROLLER                                                          l               (NEWS DESK   ___    CIIIF*    _         ASSIST              DY. DIRECTOR
OF FILM                               ~~~~~~~~~ADMIN. OFFICER        PRS  OP.            FAUE(UIES(SONG
PRO DUCTI1 ON                                                                                                               A *RETC. N  WRITR  MANAER   PUBLICITY)
DYOIRECTOR                            R
NEW            OOCUs.                                                                                                                                                                      D. DIECO               SI                IlG
R_EEL              MERTARY            SOEDIN              r            LAB                                                                                                                    ) F SUIF I  T I        RE       I        FP.
UNIT             EFIL.UI                               STAFF *             ES.              CCUNS
Additional En-R for pElE.ti(iN- progan
_______Ftik  RetI.ion.I.                                                                                           I(Y. fpRECTOR)|
Li- Rd.4a.i6-tp
WorId Bork-9410



AN7NEL I
Appendix I
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of the Population Program Officer at the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
1.        The population program officer will be responsible for:
a.   keeping liaison with the PPD and the PPS;
b.   submitting regular reports to the PPD;
c.   arranging for an orientation program for the staff working
on different sections of the plan;
d.   arranging for internal evaluation of the results of the
five different sections;
e.   ensuring that the evaluation feedback of the schemes
is transmitted to the different sections so that they
may improve their programs accordingly; and for
f.   coordinating the work of the four departments so that
all messages transmitted are compatible and that they follow
an overall family planning line to obtain maximum effect.
Communication Adviser(s) at the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
2.        Provision is made for an adviser in case of need and depending
on the qualifications of the information officer chosen. At this point it
would not be sensible to outline the role of the adviser. In addition to
the adviser one can foresee the possible need for expert consultants for
short-term visits at specified moments. Help may be needed with installing
the film processing laboratories. Radio Bangladesh might require outside
advice on the maximum use of population broadcasts in rural areas.



Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Family Planning Motivation Program of the Yinistry
of Health and Population Planning
I. Ongoing Program
1.        The Ministry of Health and Population Planning has a plan to extend
simple health and family planning services to the rural population through
a team of family welfare workers (one male and one female). The female
counterpart will concentrate on the maternal and child health and family
planning program (see Annex 7). She will have a dual role: the delivery
of family planning services, and face-to-face education and motivation.
The Ministry, with WHO support, plans to provide a kit containing inocula-
tion and vaccination equipment, malaria control, simple medicine, etc.,
for every family welfare worker - men and women. To provide the needed
support for the education and motivation program, the project includes a
pilot scheme for the use of motivation kits by the Female Family Welfare
Workers (FFWW).
11. Use of Motivation Kit by the Female Family Welfare Worker
2.        Objective:  To test the effectiveness and practicability of audio-
visual support to the motivation effort of the FFWWs. These multi-purpose
workers will have so many responsibilities that family planning is likely
to receive low priority unless the worker is provided with resources that
make the work interesting.
3.        Content:  A special test demonstration kit will be provided to the
FFWWs in the pilot areas; their male counterparts will be allowed the use
of these kits. These kits will contain a battery-operated (flashlamp)
film slide projector, flip ciarts and a cassette tape player which will play
back prerecorded programs containing entertainment as well as motivational
messages. The key to the successful use of these kits is the production
of the tapes, slides and flip books which should be made with the target
audience firmly in mind. It is also important that the workers are well
trained in presenting the film slides in a stimulating manner. Local
conditions may, however, make the contents of the kits too cumbersome for
everyday use. If this is so then another form of support for motivational
work will need to be found.



KX ' 4_
z  2
4,            E       In all nineteen thanas (one in each district) will be
selected for the use of motivation kits. Ten thanas (four concentrated and
six others) will be covered in the first year and nine others in the second
year.
5.        Expected Results:  It is expected that the FFWWs will contact
women in the reproductive ages in the pilot thanas at least several times.
On an average, the FFWWs are expected to recruit 40 acceptors per village
per year. If the performance of FFWWs with kits improves, the average may
increase to 45 acceptors per village per year. This would mean an additional
3,000 acceptors in four years.
6.        Administration:  The MCH/FP Division of the Ministry, along with
TREC, will be responsible for the implementation of the program.  The thana
family planning officers will supervise the work.
7.        Evaluations:  While the external evaluation of the schemes will
be conducted by the PPS, the internal evaluation within the Ministry would
consist of regular reporting, periodic evaluations and special evaluation
studies.
(a) Regular Reporting: Under the procedures presently followed
in the family planning program of the MOHPP, all FFWWs sub-
mit a daily report on home visiting to the assistant in-
spector. She should furnish additional information on the
use of the kit in the same report on: (i) whether kit was
taken and used during the visit; (ii) if used, the number
of adult males and females that attended the demonstrations.
The assistant inspector who supervises Fn.Vs work, will pre-
pare a brief monthly report on the maintenance of the kit,
and organization of demonstrations. He will attach this to
the monthly report on family planning he prepares, based on
the daily reports of the FFWWs. The assistant inspector
sends the monthly report through the inspector, thana health
center, district office, to the MOHPP.
(b) Periodic Evaluation: A simple evaluation is completed at the
thana health center by the THOIIPP, in terms of feasibility
and frequency of kit use, and increasc in the number of
new family planning acceptors from the area of each FFWW
given a kit in comparison to the new acceptors in similar
areas in the thana.
III. Facilities
8.        Kits which include battery-operated tape recorders, slide pro-
jectors and flip charts.



AX,NX I4
Page  3
9.        Work Schedule:
(a)  Order of equipment;                                  June 1975
(b). Production of material;                              October 1975
(c)  Provision of kits to FFWWs;                          December 1975
(d) Provision of kits in the remaining
nine thanas;                                         March 1976
(e) Assessment of impact in ten old and
nine new thanas;                                     December 1976
(f)  First assessment in all nineteen thanas;             December 1977
(g)  Second assessment in all nineteen thanas.            December 1978
Cost
10.       lle total cost of the scheme is IUS$71,800.  The details are given
in the table at the end this annex.



PSge 4
COST ESTDIATES FOR Tt'5 SCHEME
-J.  S. 
Basis of Esti.a.roi  aod Phaoi.g    1975        1976        1977        1978         Local         For.iOo       Total
A. USE OF MOTIVATION KITS
1. Vehicles
190 Bicycle- (including spate p rt.) fo                                                                                                               19,000        19,000
NoSe '-ker.                                      $100 euch (100-90)                10,000        9,000                                                             2.8
Coatlagencoeo                                                                    900        2.000 
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                              10,800       11,000                                              21,800        21,800
2. Special E    n                                                                                                                                         9,00          9,500
190 C ... tt. Tape R-cord-t                       10 po~th-a~O (100-90)00850          5,000       4,5009,0950
190 Slid.e Pojector. (battery operated)           10 pet thana (100-90)US$50          5,000       4,500                                               19.000         9,500
780 Kilo., Flip Ch.rts. Slide., et.               US$50 each                         1000         9.000                                               38_00_3_00
Sub-total                                                                     20,000      18,0                                                 3.000         38.000
Contingencies                                                                    900        2,100                                               3.000         3'
TOTAL - Special Eq.ip.eeot                                                    20,900      20,100                                               41,000        41,000
TOTAL - USE OF MOTIVATION KITS                                                31.700      31.100                                               62.800        62_00
S. INTERNAL EVALUATION
Study on Performance of 0FWws with Kits                                                  3,000        3,000       3,000                     9,000                       9,000
TOTAL-INTERNAL EVALUATION                                                        5        3            3000 9*                  900 0                       900
TOTAL                                                                        34,700      32,100       3,000                      9,000       62, 800        71,800



d.4
BANGLADESH
POPULAtION PROJECT
System of Evaluation
I. Introduction
1.        This annex summarizes the general system of evaluation of the popu-
lation program to be established in Bangladesh. It focuses particularly on
the method of evaluation of the total program, the individual components,
the agencies to be responsible for each evaluation activity and its timing.
Details of evaluation of the pilot schemes for information, education and
communication and the collection of data on acceptors through service statis-
tics are discussed in separate annexes.
2.        Objective:  The objective of the system of evaluation is to
establish a mechanism for generating data for measuring (a) the changes in
fertility, and (b) the effectiveness of various program measures adopted to
achieve the changes in fertility.
3.        Indices of Performance:  The changes in fertility are to be
measured through age-specific fertility and total fertility rates. These
data, as proposed below, would be obtained mainly through surveys but could
also be estimated from vital registration and family planning acceptors'
records depending on their completeness. The effectiveness of various pro-
gram components such as delivery of services, training and information and
the education program would be measured finally in terms of changes in knowl-
edge, attitude and practice towards family planning. The data are to be
obtained through a small specialized survey and records of family planning
acceptors. But an important part of the evaluation of program inputs would
be the assessment (at an intermediary stage) of the operations of program
components, such as the pilot schemes, training of health and family plan-
ning persoDnel and delivery of service, etc. For this assessment, a system
of regular reporting will be established.
4.        Organization:  While the Health and Population Planning Section
(PPS) of the Planning Commission would be responsible for external evalua-
tion, the Population Planning Division (PPD) of the MDHPP would be respon-
sible for assisting the concerned ministries in internal evaluation and
in collating the results. The PPS will have an Evaluation Unit with core
staff to conduct certain evaluation studies and will have funds to contract
out other studies to various universities and research institutes, such as
the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies, the Institute of Statistical
Research and Training, Dacca University, and the Universities of Chittagoag,
Rajshashi and Mymensingh. The regular reporting and internal evaluation



.age 2
w3ld be com&uc>ed by the  plaementing ministries which woud collect informa-
tion and send the regular reports to the PPD for analysis. These ministries
would also be responsible for feedback of the evaluation results to the staff
and improvements in the operations of the scheme. The PPD has enough man-
power and other resources to handle the additional work and the PPS is estab-
lishing the Evaluation Unit for this purpose.  (Details of facilities for
this section are given at the end of this annex.)  While the system of eval-
uation (objective, method, agency and timing) is summarized below and elab-
orated in later sections the key studies and their schedule is given in
Appendix I.
A.   Fertility change to be measured through:
(a) a demographic survey to be conducted by the Bangladesh
Institute of Development Studies (BIDS) and the Insti-
tute of Statistical Research and Training (ISRT) in
1977 or 1978 and to be followed up every three years;
(b) Analysis of vital statistics being collected by the
Inspection Directorate of the MOHPP in conjunction
with small fertility surveys; and
(c)  Estimates of family planning acceptors and their
characteristics to be collected by regular service
statistics of the MOHPP and small family planning
surveys.
B.   Evaluation of each component of population program to be conducted through:
(a) Internal evaluations by the ministries participating
in the program and the PPD consisting of:
Mi)  regular reports on the scheme;
(ii)  specific studies to measure various indices
of success of the scheme; and
(iii)  an analysis of regular reports supplied by
various ministries;
(b) External evaluation by the PPS consisting of periodic
surveys to be conducted by the PPS or contracted out
to other institutes or universities.
C.   Independent Review Team:
A team of expatriates and local experts to review the program after
the project is in operation for two years.



5
?age 3 ~
II. Measurement of Fertility Change
5.        Demographic Survey:  A post census enumeration survey is sched-
uled for completion by early 1975. This survey would be the baseline for
measuring changes in fertility through later surveys. A nationwide demo-
graphic survey, therefore, should be considered for 1977 or 1978. The PPS
should decide on the timing and feasibility of this survey as well as which
agency is likely to undertake it.
6.        Analysis of Vital Statistics:  The MOHPP (Health Division) has
already started on the couple registration scheme through the family welfare
workers (see Annex 17). The evaluation of data collected for this scheme
and its analysis is to be done by the Inspection Directorate (or similar
unit in the Health Division). However, the PPD would be supplied with the
analysis made by the Inspection Directorate. In the meantime, it should
conduct small special surveys to determine the levels of fertility and to
examine the completeness of the vital statistics information previously
collected. The PPD should then consider the need for establishing an alter-
native system of collection of vital rates.
7.        Acceptorst Records:  The MOHPP (both Health Division and PPD)
would have data on the number of family planning acceptors and their compo-
sition through the records to be maintained by family welfare workers. The
record of distribution of contraceptives through commercial channels and
other programs should be sent to the PPD for collection of all program sta-
tistics at one place. These data should be analyzed for demographic impact
by the PPD.
III. Evaluation of Program Components
A. Internal Evaluation
8.        The internal evaluation of the program has been discussed as part
of the program of six different ministries (see Annexes 9-14). Either each
ministry's existing evaluation unit is strengthened or separate additional
staff is provided for compilation of regular progress reports, its analysis
and feedback. Additional funds are also provided at the PPD for specific
studies to assess the effectiveness of the schemes.
(a) Regular Reports: The biggest program of internal
evaluation is that of the Ministry of Health and
Population Planning which includes collection of
service statistics. The project includes support for
analysis of service statistics and suggests methods
of improving the data. The details are given sepa-
rately in Annex 17. The Ministry of Local Government,



A2NEX 15
Page 4
Rural Development and Cooperatives has a well estab-
lished evaluation unit which, with additional facilities
provided in the project, is expected to deal with the in-
ternal evaluation. But statisticians are provided in the
project at headquarters to analyze the regular reports
to be received from thana staff. The regular reporting
in the Ministry of Agriculture will proceed through
the existing channel. Additional staff for compilation
of reports and for analysis and feedback is provided in
the project. No additional staff for analysis of regular
reports is provided in the Ministry of Education as the
population program officers and other staff in the scheme
will be responsible for it. The Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting will have a core staff for evaluation,
provided in the project, that would help in setting up
the system of regular reporting for all the schemes under
the Ministry. This core staff will also be responsible
for analysis and feedback of these reports.
(b) Specific Studies and Periodic Evaluation: The topic
for special studies are suggested for each scheme in
annexes dealing with the various ministries' programs.
But the population program officer in each ministry,
along with the adviser and the PPD, will decide on these
studies. The PPD and the ministry may give contracts to
the universities for such studies or employ special staff
to conduct them. Funds are allocated under the PPD budget
for special studies within each ministry.
B. External Evaluation
9.        All external evaluations of the different program components will
be the responsibility of the PPS. The external evaluation will focus on
variations among different thanas and among different villages in the same
thanas in: (a) management and administration of various schemes, (b' their
cost effectiveness, (c) impact on knowledge, attitude and practice of f-i  v
planning, and (d) the suitability of services provided to the consumers or
a survey of their choice to examine the causes for inadequate demand Jf scrv--
ices. The external evaluation will largely be conducted by its evaluation
unit which will receive full support from the project. The external evalua-
tion should cover each component of the program as described in the following
paragraphs.
10.       Service Delivery System:  Acceptor and non-acceptor surveys should
be conducted to assess the effectiveness of the service delivery system and
to find out to what extent the services rendered correspond to the demands
of the community. Furthermore, the relationship between non-acceptance and
non-availability of contraceptives, non-suitability of available methods,



Page 5
and administrative problems with government clinics and personnel should be
examined.
11.       Training:  The biggest cadre of personnel to be trained through
the project would be for the Health Division of the Ministry of Health and
Population Planning. Surveys on manpower utilization and on the functions
of family health visitors and family welfare workers should be conducted to
(a) assess the suitability of training, (b) assess the difference between
functions actually performed and required of them, and (c) find out more
efficient reallocations of functions.
12.       Information, Education and Communication Program:  A large part
of the information, education and communication (IEC) program is in the form
of pilot schemes. The pilot schemes will be tried in several geographic
areas (structure described in Annex 16). One thana from each of the 19 dis-
tricts will be selected for the operation of the 9 schemes in various combi-
nations.  The purpose of such a geographic distribution is to:
(a)  Assess the impact of individual schemes;
(b)  Analyze the administrative and other reasons for
regional variations in the success of different
schemes;
(c)  Assess the effect of cultural and social factors
on the success of the scheme; and
(d)  Assess the impact of all the schemes when in opera-
tion together.
In four thanas, seven of the nine schemes will be in operation. The purpose
of operating seven schemes in four thanas is to assess the impact of concen-
trated inputs on fertility behavior. In addition, operation of the schemes of
all different ministries in these concentrated thanas will reveal the admin-
istrative problem of coordination. The methodology and other details of
evaluation of pilot schemes in concentrated thanas and in other thanas are
given in Annex 16. Evaluation of the IEC program distinct from the pilot
schemes is discussed at the end of Annex 13.
13.       Evaluation:  How well the system of evaluation is working will be
examined by an Evaluation and Research Committee to be established by the PPS
and by the proposed review team (discussed below) through the assessment of
required information, the quality of data and the system of its feedback.
Review Team of the Population Program
14.       A team of experts will review the program sometime in 1978.  The
review team would consist of expatriates and local experts on:



Page 6
(a) Management and administration;
(b) Communications;
(c) Evaluation; and
(d) Maternal and child health and family planning.
15.       The terms of reference of the team will include:
(a) An up-to-date review of the progress made by the
program;
(b) An assessment of its possible demographic impact;
(c) A review of the effectiveness of individual com-
ponents of the program; and
(d) Suggested modifications for the program as a whole
and for individual components.
The project includes US$80,000 for this program review.
16.       The list of evaluation studies is given in Appendix II.
17.       Requirements:  The project provides the following funds and re-
quirements for the PPD and the PPS for program evaluation:
(a) Population Planning Division:
(i)  One evaluation and planning adviser to be used
by both the PPD and the PPS;
(ii)  Fellowship for a study tour abroad for the head
of the PPD; and.
(iii)  Funds for internal evaluation;
(b) Evaluation Unit of the Health and Population Planning
Section of the Planning Commission:
(i) Fellowship for a study tour abroad for the head
of the PPS;
(ii) Personnel:
a.   Two assistant chiefs (social scientists) for
designing evaluation studies and analyzing
results;



A sNNK15
Page 7
b.   Two supervisors for supervising data collection
in the field;
c.   Two statisticians to help with statistical
designs;
d.   Five statistical assistants to assist in com-
putation of data;
e.   Eight interviewers for field investigation;
f.   Two steno-typists; and
g.   Four drivers and one peon.
(iii)  Vehicles and Equipment:
a.   Four 4-wheel drive vehicles for supervision; and
b.   Five hand calculators, two electronic desk com-
puters and two typewriters.
(iv) Operating Costs:
a.   Vehicle maintenance and office supplies; and
b.   Funds for contracting out the evaluation
studies.
18.       Costs:  The detailed cost estimates are given in the table at
the end of this annex. The total cost of the facilities at the PPS is
estimated at US$481,800 and at the PPD, US$546,800.



SSB
ANEX 15
Page 8
POPULATION PROECTP
i_bl/.T0ivi. PAI .1' LISdCTIuL (PP3) _'L  TIF P'AIi( . i_
Bools of Estioation and Phbaing         1975-76       1976-77       1977-78      1Uf                Local        Fore-in        Total
A PPS HEADOUAFTERS
1.  Vehiolei
6 Four-kheel Drive Vehicles                   $5,700 each                             34,200                                                                    34,200        34,200
Con-tigenci-s                                                                   1 900                                                                  _S.0            l 900
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                               36,100                                                                   36,100        36,100
2. loecial Etsionent
5 Hond Calcolators                           $  400 each                               2,000                                                                     2.000         2,000
2 Electric Desk Conpote-o                     $2,500 each                              5,000                                                                     5,000         5,000
2 Typewriters                                $  400 each                                 600                                                                       800           800
2 Dsplicating Machinos                       $  400 each                                 800                                                                       800          800
Subtotal                                                                        8,600                                                                    8,600         8,600
Contingencies                                                                     500                                                                       500           500
TOTAL - Special Eq.ip-ent                                                       9,100                                                                     9,100        9,100
3. Technicai Assiscance
Fellowship for he-d of PPS                   3      .an.onths                          4,000                                                                     4,000         4,000
4.  Increnental Recurrent Cost
a. Salary Sanort for Evaluation Unit
2 Ascisctnt Chiefs                       TK475-50-100                              1,800         2,000         2,200                           6,000                       6,000
2 Saperviso-s                            TK450-50-750                              1,720         1,900         2,100                           5,720                       5,720
2 Statisticians                          TK375-25-650                              1,400         1,520         1,620                           4,540                      4,540
8 Inteei-ewers                           TK375-25-650                              5,600         6,080         6,480                          18,160                      18,160
2 Ste.o-Typiost                          TX220-10                                    800           900           960                           2,660                       2,660
5 Statistical Assistants                 TK220-10                                  2,000         2,250        2,400                            6,650                      6,650
6 Drivers                                TKl40-7-154                               1,620         1,680         1,740                           5,040                       5.040
1 peon                                   TK80-3-110                              ..150             160           170                             480                        480
Subtotal                                                                       15,090        16,490        17,670                         49,250                      49,250
Salary AdjstMent                                                              3.,800         4.100         4.400                           12.300                     12,300
Subtotal                                                                       18,890       20,590        22,070                          61,550                      61,550
Contingencies                                                                     SHO         1,510  1 30  2.,430                          4.450                       4.450
TOTAL - Salaries                                                               19,400       22,100        24,500                          66,000                      66,000
b. Oo-ratino Cost
Vehicle Maintenance                                                                9,500         9,500         9,500                          28,500                      28,500
Special Equipnent Maintenance                                                        450           450           450                           1,350                       1,350
Offic- Far.itcee  and Supplies                                                     2.000         1,000         1,000                           4,000                      4,000
Sabtotal                                                                      11,950        10,950        10,950                          33,850                      33,850
Conting-ncies                                                                     650        1.650         2.550                           4.850 4.80                  4,850
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                         12,600       12.600        13.500                          38.700                      38.700
TOTAL -     --creoota.l Recurrent Coot                                         32.000       34.700        38,000                         104.700                     104,700
TOTAL - PPS  EADQUARTERS                                                       81,200        34,700       38,000                         104,700        49,200       153,900



AN-ax 13
?s&e 9
US$
boois of Estim=aton end Pheasng         i             1             1977-/b      1978-79              Local .      ei           Total
B.  EVALUATION STUIEIIS (ALL INCbDtENTAI. RECDRRENT COrsT
1. Follow-un Survey of Four Conceetrared Thanas
a.  Fir-t Folov-up 5urvey                                                                           20,O00                                        20,000                     20,000
b.  Second Follow-up Srvey                                                                                                                        20000 220000
Subtotal                                                                                    20,000        20,000                          40,000                      40,000
2. Follow-nc S-rveys of Other Filot Thanas
a.  Won-'s Fu-ctional/Model Far-ers                                                                               53,000                          53,000
b.  Agoic-ltur I Et-insonMorth-rs' Club                                                                           39,700                          39,700                      39,700
c.  Popul.tio.  Ed-catio./Mtoivation Kits                                                                          9.000                           9,000                       9,000
d.  Women's Vocat_oi l TraininS                                                                                   25,000                          25,000                      25S,fO
e.  U-e of Audiovisual P.ns                                                                                       33,100                          33,100                      33,100
f.  Population frogra-  for Orgeeioed Labor                                                                       25 100                          25.100                      25,10Q
Subtotal                                                                                                 184,900                         184,900                     104,900
3.  Other  -vulutios and Research Studies
a.  Evaluation of Itegrated Delivery of Services                                     75,000                                                      75,000                     75,000
b.  Overoll froject Revi                                                              28.000                                                      28.000                      280000
Subtotal                                                                                                                                  0103.00
TOTAL - Induction Studios                                                     103,000        20,000      204,900                         327,900                     327,900
C. TOTALS
Vehicles                                                                                  34,200                                                                    34,200        34,200
Special Eqvip-ect                                                                          8,600                                                                     8,600         8,600
Technical Assiutance                                                                       4,000                                                                     4,000         4,0oo
Inco -noctal Recurrent Cast                                                              133,640        51,540       237,920                         423,300                    423,300
CTotji-geoi-c                                                                            3.S60           3 160         4.980                           2.400         9,300        11 700
TOTAL - PFS                                                                   184,200       54,700       242,900                         425,700        56,100       481,800



ANNEX I S
Page 10
POPUI,AION PROJECT
POPlLATION PlANNING DIVISION
US$
Basis of Estieation asd Phasing         1975-76       1976-77       1977-78        1978-79          Loc-l         Fore-ie       Toral
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I. Advisers for:
Management Study                                                                      50,000                                                                    50O0S         50,000
Eval-ution                                    12 Man--o.tha                           40,000                                                                    40,000        40.000
Study of Country's Lows                                                               20,000                                                                    20,000        20,000
Evaluation of Integrated Delivery of
Ser-i-es                                    To .e used by PPS                        50,000                                                                    50.000        50,000
Overall Project Review                      TI  be used by PPS                        52,000                                                                    52,000        52,000
2.  FeLloashsp for head of PPD                    3 M.ar.-onths                            4,000                                                                     4000          4-000
TOTAL - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                216,000                                                                   216,000       216,000
B.  INC8E0MNTAL RECURRENT COST
1. Osseline Survevs of:
Concentrated Thaeas                                                                   26,000                                                      26,000                      26,000
Other Pilot Thanas
Woean's FunctionaI/MHdel Farsers                                                    13,200        13,200                                        26,400                      26,400
Agricultural Extension Workers/
Mthert' Club                                                                       20,000        20,000                                        40,000                      40,000
Population Ed-uatios/Motivat-on Kits                                                 4,500         4,500                                         9,000                       9,000
Wonen's Vocational Training                                                          6,000         6,000                                        12,000                      12,000
Use of Audiecuual Vans                                                               5,100         5,000                                        10,100                      10,100
Population Program for Orgami.ed Labor                                               5,000         6 000                                        11.000                      11.000
Subtotal                                                                     79,800        54,700                                       134,500                     134,500
2.  Other Evaluation and Research Studies
Health aed Fasily Plaening Manpower Study                                             13,200                                                      13,200                      13,200
Survey in Completness of Vital Registration System                                    55,10                                                       55,100                      55,100
Surrey of Acuept-r and IEon-acceptor Characteristics                                  27,000        54,000        27,000                         108,000                     108,000
Study of Country's Laws for Pronatality Impact                                        20.000                                                      20.000                      20,000
Subtotal                                                                     115,300       54,000        27,000                         196,300                     196,300
T-OTAL - INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COST                                          195,100      108,700        27,000                         330,800                     330,800
C. TOTALS
Technical Assistante                                                                     216,000                                                                   216,000       216,000
Incremental Recurrent Cast                                                               195,100       108.700        27.000                                       330.800
TOTAL - POPOLATION PLANNINC DIVISION                                        411,100       108,700        27,000                         330,800       216,000       546,800



ALa __f
Appendix I
Terms of Reference for the Planning and Evaluation Adviser
1.        To assist the heads of the PPS and the PPD in:
(a) Detailed planning of the pilot schemes and other
program components;
(b) Laying down the indices of performance of various
program inputs;
(c) Suggesting suitable methodology for evaluation of
different program components;
(d)  Setting up the system of coordination of reports
and flow of information; and
(e) Developing a system of analysis for the results
of evaluation and their feedback.
Qualifications
2.        An expert of established reputation in the field of population
program evaluation.



--4
*appenc.ix I:
Page 1
Schedule for Evaluation and Other Studies
Starting Completion
Studies                     Date        Date            Agency Responsible
Evaluation of attitudes and
collection of statistics in
4 concentrated thanas:
a.   Base-line survey             6/75      10/75         PPD
b.   First follow-up survey    10/76         4177         PPS
c.   Second follow-up survey  1l///          4/II         PPS
Evaluation of pilot schemes
in other thanas:
a.   Base-line surveys in                                 PPD in collaboration with
about 30 thanas                                      following Ministries:
(i)    Women's functional        9/75        3/76         Ministry of Local Gov't,
literacy prog.; use                                Rural Dev't and Coop's.
of model farmers and
coop. managers
(ii)   Use of agric. extension  9/75         3/76         Ministries of Agric.
workers and mothers'                               and Labor and Social
clubs                                              Welfare
(iii)  Mobile population         9/75        3/76         MOHPP (Health Division)
education team and                                 Ministry of Education
motiv. kits for FFWWs
(iv)   Women's vocational        9/75        3/76         Ministry of Labor aad
training program                                   Social Welfare
(v)    Use of audiovisual vans  9/75         3/76         MIB
(vi)   Population program for   9/75         3/76         Ministry of Labor and
organized labor                                    Social Welfare
b.   First follow-up survey    10/76         4/77         PPS
with respect to (a) above
c.   Base-line survey for        10/76       4/77         PPD in collaboration
remaining thanas                                     with relevant ministries



r.aed i,
Page 2
Starting Completion
Studies                     Date        Date            Aumency Responsible
d.   Second follow-up survey   10/77         4/78         PPS
with respect to (a) above
and first follow-up survey
with respect to (c) above
Other Studies
a.   Evaluation of              1 year    6 months        PPD
model clinics             after      after com-
commence- mencement
ment of   of study
operation
b.   Performance of field       Same as   Same as         PPD
training thana health    3(a)        3(a)
complexes
co  bHDHPP manpower               1/76      12/76         PPD
utilization study
d.   Performance of               1/77       6/77         PPD
FFWWs and their
male counterparts
e.   Survey on completeness       6/75      12/76         PPD
of couple registration
system
f.   Survey of acceptor and       6/76      12/76         PPD
non-acceptor charac-
teristics
g.   Survey of assessment         1/78       6/78         MIB
of mass media impact
h.   Primary and secondary        6/79      12/79         Ministry of Education
school curriculum
assessment
i.   Evaluation of integrated   1/76         6/76         PPS
delivery of services by
MOHPP (Health Division)
j.   Overall project review       1/78       6/78         PPS



ANN, EX l5
Appendix 1I
Page 3
Starting Completion
Studies                     Date        Date            Agency Responsible
k.   Thana Health complex        4/75       10/75         BPDU
design study
1.   Building utilization         1/79      12/79         BPDU
study
m.   Determinants of fertility  7/75         6/78         BIDS
study



ANFEX 16
Page I
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Evaluation of the Pilot Schemes
1.        This annex briefly describes the objectives, methodology and agencies'
responsible for the evaluation of pilot schemes (Chart 9487). The evaluatiot
of pilot schemes will be by geographic areas and by schemes. The objectives
of the evaluation are described in Annex 15. The schemes will be evaluated
separately for four concentrated thanas and the rest of the thanas through
base-line and follow-up surveys during the project period. The major re-
sponsibility for the evaluation of these schemes will lie with the Evalua-
tion Unit of the PPS and the Evaluation Section of the PPD.
I. Surveys in the Four Concentrated Thanas
1.        The Institute of Statistical Research and Training (ISRT), an
autonomous organization of the University of Dacca, had, in the past, under-
taken several applied research studies in social science fields, including
demographic surveys and computer simulation studies of human fertility. It
has adequate facilities for coding, punching and computer analysis of data.
The Institute undertakes research studies sponsored by other agencies and
deputizes experienced staff to carry them out.
A. Base-line Survey
2.        Objective:  To determine bench-marks in terms of the extent of
knowledge, favorable attitudes and practice (KAP) relating to family plan-
ning, and the level of fertility for the population in the four thanas,
before the seven pilot schemes are started.
3.        Contents:  A representative sample of at least 2,500 currently
married women under 45 years of age will be selected from the four thanas
based on the couple registration data of the Ministry of Health and Popula-
tion Planning, or the 1974 population census data. A sub-sample of 1,000
of their husbands will also be included in Lhe survey. Wives will be inter-
viewed by females and husbands by males, preferably simultaneously but inde-
pendently. Wives and husbands will be interviewed with the help of separate
questionnaires. Both questionnaires will be pre-tested before they are fi-
nalized. Detailed instructions for answering the questionnaire will be
prepared. The wife's questionnaire will have two parts: (a) a household
section in which to list all members of the household by sex, age, marital



ANNEX 16
Page 2
status and their family relationships; and (b) a family planning and fertil-
ity section in which to give information on variables, such as the couple's
socio-economic background, marriage and fertility history; wife's attitudes
towards family size, child spacing, and adoption of family planning; knowl-
edge about family planning; past, current and expected future use of family
planning methods; and detailed pregnancy history in the past three years.
The husband's questionnaire will have items only on knowledge, attitude,
and practice of family planning. Based on detailed analysis of the data,
a report will be published and distributed to all persons concerned.
4.        Administration:  The survey will be conducted under the over-all
guidance of the Director of ISRT. The project provides for one full-time
Director and one Deputy Director. A Study Advisory Committee will be formed
consisting of representatives of the PPD, the PPS, important research insti-
tutions, and the Universities of Chittagong, Mymensingh, Rajshahi and Dacca.
Disciplines such as Statistics, Sociology, Psychology, Demography, Economics,
and health and family planning will be represented in the Committee. It will
advise on the design of the survey and report writing. Since one thana will
be selected in each of the four regions, collaboration will be sought from
the Universities of Chittagong, Mymensingh and Rajshahi in the matters re-
lating to recruitment of interviewers and supervision of their field work,
and editing and coding of data in the regions; the project staff will look
after the work in these four regions. The interviewers and supervisors will
be appointed on an ad-hoc basis and trained in the canvassing of the schedule,
in Dacca for a period of two weeks. The interviewers will edit the question-
naires before leaving the field. They will also code the data in the uni-
versity in the region. The punching, verification and processing of the data
will be done by the regular staff of the ISRT on an overtime basis, utilizing
its equipment. The project provides for two research assistants to assist in
the analysis. The report will be prepared by the Project Director and Deputy
Director.
5.        Coverage:  The survey covers a sample of eligible couples in four
concentrated thanas which were selected in the four regions of the country
for conducting the eight pilot schemes.
6.        Staff and Other Requirements:  The project provides the following
additions:
(a) Personnel: (i) One Project Director to plan and
execute the survey, analyze the data, and write
the report. (ii) Four research assistants to help
in field supervision and analysis of data. (iv) Two
stenographers to work for the Director and Deputy
Director. (v) One peon for the office. (vi) Twenty
interviewers (one male and four females in each
thana) to canvass questionnaires, edit and code
the data. (vii) Four supervisors (one in each
thana) to organize and supervise field work and
coding of data.



A   X 16
?age 3
(b)  Operating Costs:  (i) 12,000 punch cards. (ii) Hionorarium
to ISRT staff for punching and tabulation of data. (iii)
Honorarium to three staff members of the three regional
universities for collaborating on the project in the
recruitment of interviewers, and supervision of field
work and coding (the project staff will look after the
fourth region). (iv) Travel of interviewers, supervisors,
project staff and Advisory Committee Members. (v) Printing
of questionnaires and instruction manuals. (vi) Publication
of the report. (vi) 5 per cent service charge to be paid
to the University of Dacca for making its resources avail-
able for the project.
7.        Expected Results:  The survey provides benchmarks useful in
the assessment of improvements in the KAP levels in the four thanas as a
result of the pilot schemes.
8.        Internal Evaluation:  The basic data collected in the survey
will be checked for internal consistency and cross-checked with the
couple registration data for reliability. Assessment of quality of
the data will also be made in the final analysis.
9.        Cost:  The total cost of the project will be US$26,000 for one
year. The details are given at the end of this annex.
10.       Work Schedule:
a.   Appointment of a Project Director, a Deputy
Director and Research Assistants                      March 1975
b.   Preparation of the draft design for the
survey                                                April 1975
c.   Study Advisory Committee meeting to consider
draft design                                          May 1975
d.   Appointment and training of interviewers and
supervisors                                           May 1975
e.   Interviews                                            June 1975 -
July 1975
f.   Coding of data                                        August 1975
g.   Punching and tabulation                               September 1975
h.   Analysis of data and drafting of report               October 1975



RMNX   6
Page 4
i.   Study Advisory Committee meeting to consider
draft report                                         November 1975
j.   Publication of final report                          December 1975
B. Follow-up Surveys
First Follow-up Survey
11.       The details of the follow-up surveys would be worked out by the
concerned agencies later. The following indicates the broad objectives:
a.   Objectives:  To determine, in comparison to the
bench-marks, the improvements brought about by the
schemes in KAP and fertility reduction; and to
assess the relative ability of the different exec-
uting ministries to coordinate their efforts. Further,
comment from the sample population on the desirability
of the schemes from the viewpoint of the clients' re-
quirements and administrative and technical problems
should be obtained.
b.   Sample:  A sample of at least 2,500 currently married
women and a sub-sample of at least 1,000 of their husbands
will be selected. Half the areas from which the females
and males are drawn will be in common with the base-line
survey and the remaining areas will be new. A probability
sample of males and females will be drawn from each area.
c.   Levels of Comparison:  Based on surveys and other data it
will be possible to make comparisons for:
Mi) the common areas between the follow-up and base-
line survey;
(ii) between the group of four concentrated thanas and
a group of similar thanas in the four districts; and
(iii) between the group of four thanas and all thanas in
the four districts.
d.   Agency and Cost:  The PPS should arrange for the survey
with the help of ISRT and possibly other research insti-
tutions. In addition to the support for the infrastructure
of the PPS, the additional funds required for the survey
is estimated to be US$20,000.



.anec  5
2.       (- o3ze Tl-o--up Survey:  This s1hould  be undersa.ran at a time
coinciding with. the termination of the pilot schemes.
a.   Objectives:  Same as for the mid-term appraisal wi.th
greater emphasis on determination ofE the direct effects
of the individual schemes, and their combinations; ef-
fects of diffusion process; and non-program effects.
b.   Sample:  Same sample size as for the previous survey
will be drawn from different areas so that 25 percent
of them will be from common areas for the first and
second surveys, 25 percent of the first but not the
second survey, and 50 percent from new areas. Within
each area selected, a probability sample of the
required number of wives and husbands will be
drawn.
c.   Levels of Comparisons:  This sample survey's findings
can be compared with those of the first and second
surveys.
d.   Agency and Cost:  The PPS will also arrange for
this survey like the previous survey for which
US$20,000 is provided.
II. Other Pilot Thanas
13.       The KAP type of surveys should be conducted in the 15 thanas
(excluding the concentrated thanas) - before the schemes start for providing
the base-line survey (or alternatively a retrospective survey after the
scheme is in operation), and the other after twenty-four months of operation
of the scheme. The survey should have questions that reveal the changes
in levels of fertility, attitude toward family size and knowledge and practice
of contraceptives. The following describes the sample objectives and com-
parison levels for the surveys for each of the two pilot schemes taken in
combination in the same thanas.
Women's Functional Literacy and Use of
Model Farmers and Cooperative Managers
a.   ObJectives:
(i) to determine the increase in the level of KAP
in the community;



h-\NX 16
Page 6
(ii) to investigate the important aspects of the
functioning of the two schemes, such as reasons
for persons of various categories dropping out
of the schemes, adequacy of training,
problems in implementation of the schemes,
requirements of the community and what modi-
fications in the scheme should be made; and
(iii) to determine the extent of practice of contracep-
tion among the persons specially trained in the
schemes.
b.   Sample:  A total sample of 4,000 couples for each survey
will be selected from the 15 thanas for the KAP part of
the survey and both the husbands and wives will be inter-
viewed independently. Of these, 2,000 couples will be
from the village where only the scheme of model farmers
and cooperative managers is operating, and 2,000 couples
from the remaining villages of the 15 thanas. For the
second and third parts of the survey, 100 persons
trained as village organizers, 300 female cooperative
members trained in the literacy program, 100 cooperative
managers and 300 model farmers will be selected from
villages having both schemes. The same number of the
four categories of persons will be selected also from
other villages having only one scheme.
c.   Levels of Comparison:  Based on the survey and other
data, it will be possible to make comparisons of
important findings on KAP, between the two groups
of villages having one scheme or both schemes,
between these groups of villages and areas with
different combinations of other pilot schemes, and
with other areas not having any pilot scheme at all.
Similarly for the other part of the survey, comparisons
of different functional aspects of the schemes when
they are operated concurrently vis-a-vis wlhen only
one scheme is implemented.
d.   Agency and Cost:  The PPD should undertake the survey
in collaboration with appropriate institutions. Esti-
mated cost of the surveys would be US$53,000.
15.       Agricultural Assistants and Mothers' Clubs
a.   Objectives:
(i) relating to the first scheme: to study the impact
of the scheme on KAP;



Pa   7
(i):`  relating to the second scheme:  to study the impact
of the scheme on KAP and important functional aspects,
such as, adequacy of training given to different cate-
gories of persons, reasons for dropping out of the
scheme of persons trained, problems of following
the vocations, reactions of persons directly in-
volved in the schemes and of the public to the
operations;
(iii) relating to both: to determine the extent of
practice of contraception by the persons trained
under the schemes.
b.   Sample:  For that part of the survey which aims at
studying the impact, a representative sample of 2,000
couples for each survey will be drawn from the 15 thanas
(excluding the four concentrated thanas) and other mem-
bers of the couples will be interviewed. For the other
part of the survey, 100 village social workers, 100 ex-
tension agents and 1,000 mothers who ever joined the
clubs will be selected.
16.       Agency and Cost:  The PPD will contract this survey out to an
appropriate agency; the estimated cost would be US$39,700.
Seminars for School Teachers and Family Welfare Workers Motivation Kit
17.       The PPD should arrange for the assessment of efficacy of primary
and secondary school teacher seminars by:
a.   measurement of change in their knowledge, attitude and
practice of family planning;
b.   follow-up of the impact of teachers in extending the
knowledge of population problems in the school and the
community;
c.   the effectiveness of motivation kits on the performance
of family welfare workers.
A sample of about 20 villages with the scheme and 20 village without the
scheme from each thana should be ta'ken at random for the studies.
18.       Agency:  The PPD should give funds to the Institute of Educational
Research for undertaking this study. The estimated cost is US$9,000.



Page  8
Population Program &2: Labor Welfare Centers
19.       The following should be determined through the evaluation of
the centers:
a.   Utilization of available manpower and adequacy
of their training; and
b.   A follow-up survey of acceptors through the scheme
to estimate continuation rates for contraceptives.
20.       For the first survey all three family welfare centers will be
included for the study. For the second survey a sample of 1,000 IUD and
1,000 pill acceptors will be selected on the basis of client records of
the three centers, and interviewed with the help of a questionnaire. For
other methods, the monthly reports of the centers will be used to esti-
mate couple years of protection. The cost of the project will be appro-
ximately US$25,100.
21.       Women's Vocational Training Program
The women's vocational training program should be assessed in
terms of knowledge, attitude and practice of family planning among the
women receiving training and the trainers, the skills and knowledge
received through the scheme and the views of trainees on the technical
and administrative aspects of the scheme. A sample of about 500 women
should be taken covering the trainees at the thana, union and village
levels. The PPD should give the contract to one of the universities.
The estimated cost is US$25,000.
22.       Schemes of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
a.   Objectives:  To determine the coverage of population by
each scheme, the impact of each scheme on the YKAP of married
persons, and public reactions to the schemes.
b.   Sample:  One rural and one urban sample each of 1,500
households will be drawn and all married persons in the
selected households will be interviewed. For drawing
the samples, the procedures are suggested in Annex 13
describing the program of the Ministry of Information
and Broadcasting.



~ -
co.  Lev:z of Comparison:  3ased on the survey and ch--e
data, comparisons of the impact can be made betweer.
rural areas which are covered by all five activities
of the Ministry and those which are covered by only
three of them (with the exclusion of the pilot
scheme) , between the rural and urban areas, both
not having the pilot schdme.
d.          and   bt:  The PPD within the Ministry may contract
this survey out to a suitable institution.  Estimated cost is
US033,100.



~~~~~~ l
  - - - -------
Ii         ISt
.- 0  l          - - -     -
dt: 
a                                                 f
L     ---------------~---I



BAUNGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Service Statistics System
1.        This annex examines the system of collection of vital statistics
and data on acceptors (service statistics) that is being planned and to some
extent initiated by the MOHPP. It further suggests the required modifica-
tion in the forms, system of reporting, analysis and feedback of informa-
tion.
I. Ongoing Program
2.        The Ministry of Health and Population Planning has been developing
a service statistics system for the integrated health and family planning
program with a view toward obtaining the data required to monitor the program.
To supplement this, the Ministry also has plans to undertake assessment of
family planning service facilities and studies of other operational prob-
lems. The responsibility for the implementation of service statistics
system has been entrusted to the Inspection Directorate (ID) of the Minis-
try.
3.        As of now, there has been only partial development of the basic
elements of the service statistics system, namely, (a) records of activities
generated at different levels of the program organization during the course
of its implementation, and the immediate results achieved; (b) reports on
these activities and results sent to higher levels of program administration
which monitor the program; (c) processing and feedback of service statistics;
and (d) facilities for implementation of the system. Health cards and couple
registration cards/forms were provided for the entire population of the
country. They are being updated during the course of return visits of workers
to households/families in connection with health and family planning work.
These cards and forms constitute potential sources of data for evaluation
of performance in the fields of health as well as family planning. Forms
are developed for reporting of daily performance of family welfare workers
(FWWs), and also for weekly consolidation of these reports by the assistant
inspector or inspector at the thana health center. Channels for reports
from the level of thana health center to the ID, and procedures for consoli-
dation of reports at each stage are yet to be decided. Neither record nor
report forms have so far been developed for use by other service units, such
as government medical institutions, and family planning clinics under non-
governmental agencies, prescribing only clinical or all contraceptive methods.



YNNEX X7
Page 2
4.        The technical staff at various levels higher than assistant inspec-
tor for the implementation of the system includes one statistical assistant
at district office, and one officer on special duty (OSD) of the rank of
Deputy Director and one Deputy Director (DD) at the ID and one statistician
of the family planning board. Both senior positions of Deputy Director rank
are at present vacant. The other staff of the ID are presently engaged
mostly in spot-inspection of field work. No comprehensive service statistics
system as such has been set in operation. Also, facilities are not available
at the ID to cope with the data processing requirements of the system when
service statistics from all areas/units commence flowing regularly. The
project includes assistance for the establishment and efficient operation of
the service statistics system in so far as it relates to family planning
program only.
II. Family Planning Service Statistics System
5.        Objective:  To establish an efficient system for routine collec-
tion, collation, analysis and feedback of adequate information on various
kinds of efforts made within the family planning program, and results that
are immediately achieved in terms of acceptance and use of the program
methods of contraception, in order to help monitor the national program at
various levels of program administration, such as thana, district and national
levels.
6.        Contents:  All service units, such as FWWs and medical and other
institutions presenting contraceptive methods, will maintain suitable fam-
ily planning client records, and prepare separate forms denoting important
characteristics of new acceptors. FWWs will continue to send daily reports
as at present, and two sets of acceptors' characteristics (AC) forms to the
assistant inspector. He will consolidate the daily reports of all FWWs under
his supervision into monthly report for each sub-union, and send one set of
reports to the thana health center and another set of reports together with
a set of AC forms directly to the ID at Dacca. Similar monthly reports and AC
form will be sent regularly every month by all other service units to the4r
respective immediately higher supervisory level, namely, the health ce ter
or district health and family planning office, and also simultaneouslv tc  t'
ID directly. Important entries made on the AC forms will be verified in
the field by assistant inspectors or the staff of the thana health centcr
and district office. Based on reports of assistant inspectors for sub-unions
and of other service units in the thana area, the thana health center will
prepare a consolidated monthly report for each union and send copies of the
reports to the District Office, where they will be consolidated by thana.
Copies of these reports will be sent to the regional office and to the ID.
All monthly reports will indicate progress in rural and urban areas sepa-
rately. Thus, the ID will receive monthly reports together with AC forms
directly from the periphery, and consolidated monthly reports for the thana,
from districts. It will also receive detailed progress reports from thanas
and districts on the staff in position together with the status of their
training, in their respective areas; and from training centers, the number



dage .i
of Ssa-s of various categories thiat are given -n-serv 7 ce trainirg.  The
ID will collate and analyze the informiation received, andi present the data
in a suitable form to the senior executives for their information regarding
policy decisions. It will also feed suitable data to the peripheral levels
to help them assess their own performance as compared to others.
7.        Administration:  The Director of ID will be in charge of overall
guidance to the project. When the OSD and DD are appointed in the currently
vacant posts, one of them will be in charge of the establishment of the
system and routine tabulations, and the other in charge of a detailed anal-
ysis of data received in the reports and special studies of data from the
records in the field. Both of them will go on observation tours for three
months to countries in Asia where service statistics systems are well devel-
oped. Provision is made for additional staff at the ID, one statistician at
district office (in addition to the existing post of one statistical assistant)
and one statistical assistant at each thana health center. The OSD and DD
will train the staff of the ID and the statisticians at the districts for a
period of two weeks in Dacca. The district statisticians, with assistance
from the ID, will train the statistical assistants at thana health centers
in their respective districts for a period of two weeks at district head-
quarters. An adviser will help in the development of forms for use in the
system, programs for tabulation of data in the reports received, and analy-
tical studies of data in the records and reports of the system, and training
programs. The terms of reference for the adviser are given in Appendix I.
8.        Coverage:  The system covers the entire family planning program
of the Ministry of Health and Population Planning as well as of other min-
istries. It will also include in its purview commercial distribution of
contraceptives when sponsored by the Government.
9.        Staff and Other Requirements:  The project includes the following
additions:
a.   Personnel
(i)  Two assistant directors (statistics) 4 statisticians
-- these together with the statistician currently in
position -- will supervise operation of the system
in the four regions of the country, and undertake
routine tabulations and analysis of data, and from
the regions, undertake studies based on data in the
records;
(ii)  20 statistical assistants to scrutinize monthly
and other reports, code and collate data in the
reports and collect and code data from field
records.



_ANEX _1 7
Page 4
(iii)  One office superintendent to assist in the general
administration of the entire unit in the ID and in
the statistical units in districts and in the thana
health center.
(iv) Four steno-typists to work for the 12 senior officials
including the OSD, DD and the statistician to be ap-
pointed in the existing posts, and the additional 5
assistant directors and 4 statisticians.
(v)  Two clerks for typing and maintenance of office files.
(vi) Two drivers for the two 4-wheel drive vehicles pro-
vided in the project.
(vii) Two peons to attend to the officials of the unit.
(viii) 19 Statisticians, one in each district to train
statistical assistants at thana health centers,
scrutinize monthly reports, and report to higher
levels, and to assist the ID in the collection of
data from records at the peripheral level.
b.   Vehicles and Equipment:
(i)  Two 4-wheel drive vehicles to the ID for use in
the supervision of operations at the field level,
and in the collection of data from the field records
for special analysis.
(ii) Six automatic key punching-cum-verifying machines,
1 reproducer, 1 sorter, 1 tabulator, 4 air condi-
tioners.
(iii) 34 hand calculators (15 for the ID, and one for each
district); and
(iv) Six typewriters for the ID.
c.   Operating Costs:  Provision is made for maintenance and
running of vehicles, maintenance of data processing and
calculators, data processing and office supplies, printing
of forms for family planning records, reports, and service
statistics manuals, training materials and in-service
training, special studies based on data available in
field records, and publication of important reports.
10.       Expected Results:  It is expected that adequate data will be
routinely available to administrators to monitor the program and on which
to base policy decisions. Analysis of service statistics will also help
in the identification of operational problems for studies to be undertaken
by appropriate agencies.



NSS2zX ' 7
B'ag@ 5
Z,o ,Paluation: The evaluation of the service statistics system
consists of assessing its effectiveness gauged in terms of (a) completeness
of reports received in the ID; (b) punctuality and regularity of routine
periodical tabulations; (c) usefulness of the analytical studies made of
the data of the system; and (d) most importantly, the extent to which the
findings from analyses are taken into consideration by the senior executives
while making policy decisions.
12.       Work Schedule
(a) Appointment of the OSD and the DD (in the
existing posts)                                           March 1975
(b)  Ordering of vehicles and equipment                        July 1975
(c)  Observation tour of the OSD and the DD                    July 1975
(d)  Visit of the adviser                                      July 1975
(e)  Appointment of administrative staff at headquarters    August 1975
(f) Appointment and training of headquarters technical
staff and statisticians in the districts                 October 1975
(g) Appointment and training of statistical assistant
at thana health centers                                  November 1975
(h)  Data processing and monthly tabulations                   December 1975
(i)  Scrutiny of data in couple registration formn             April -
and health cards                                         May 1976
(j)  Analysis of new acceptors' characteristics               July 1976
(k)  Special studies of data in reports and records           October 1976
(1)  Review of the system's operations                        November 1975
13.       Cost:  The total cost of the project is estimated at US$325,800
for a three and a quarter year period. The details are given in the table
at the end of this annex.



AN5N85  17
OF                                                      T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~age6
31.F, COOT TE852I5 YM OF ThZA NOT-CONS35UC.T ON PSOTII! OG T.5  N33ST  07 B2.Th 5155 ?OPULUITION PL'IOINGPg
basis of Esti=ation and Phasing    1975-76    1976-77       19         . S$-o8 19l                  Foreign        Total
SERVICE STATISTICS
1. Vehicles                                                                                                                                                 11.400        11,400
2 For-Wh-el Drive Cars                              $5700 each                         11,400                                                               600           600
Contingencies                                                                      600
TOTAL - Vehicles                                                                12,000                                                           12,000         12,000
2. Specisl Equip9ent
6  Punching con Verifying Machines                  $3300 each est.                    19,800                                                           19,800         19,800
1Sorter with Co.nting Devise                        $5700 each est.                     5,700                                                             500            500
1 Tabulator                                         $9500 eah                           9,500                                                           29800           2,800
1 Reproducer                                       $2800  cash                          2,800                                                           62800           6,800
34 Hand Calculators                                 $200 eash(19-Oiatrictil5National) 6,800                                                               1,200         1,200
4  Air Conditioners                                 $300 each                           1,200                                                             1,200         1,200
Sub-itotal                                  $400 eah                            48,200                                                           48,200         48,200
Contingencies                                                                                                                                    2      700.0
TOTAL - Special Equipent                                                        50,900                                                           50,900         50,900
3. Technicl Assistance
.dviser                                            12m                                 40,000                                                           40,000         40,500
Fellowship for 2 Assistant Directors               3s-                                  8 000                                                            808,
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                                    48,000                                                           48,000         48,000
4. Incremental Rencrrect Cost
a. Salarv Sopport
National Level
2  Assistant Directors                          TK750-75-1300                        3,200       3,400        3,800         700         11,100                      11,100
4  Stasisticiann                                TK350-15                             2,670       2,790        2,900                      8,360                       8,360
20 Statistical Asnistants                       TK210-10                             8,010       8,400        8,780                     25,190                      25,190
1  Office Superintendent                        TK350-15                               670         700          730                      2,100                       2,100
4  Steno-Typists                                TK220-10                             1,680       1,750        1,830                      5,260                       5,260
2 Clerk-Typists                                 TK150-10                               570         610          650                      1,830                       1,830
2  Drivers                                      TK140-7                                540         560          590                      1,690                       1,690
2  Peons                                        TK8-3                                  300         320          340                        960                         960
District Level
19 Statisticians                                TK350                               12,680      13.250       13,780         -
Sub-total                                                                      30,320      31,780       33,400         700         96,200                      96,200
Salary Ad$u.tmant                                                               7.580       7.945        8,350         200         24.075                      24,075
Sub-total                                                                      37,900      39,725       41,750         900        120,275                     120,275
Contingencies                                                                   1.000       2.875       4650            _           8,525                       8,525
TOTAL - Salaries                                                               38,900      42,600       46,400         900        128,800                     128,800
b, OperationR Cost
Data Prncessing Office Supplies                 Est.                                10,000       2,000        2,000                     14,000                      14,000
Vehicle Maintenance                             TK1000/no/vehicle (2)                3,200       3,200        3,200                      9,600                       9,600
Machine Maintenance                             Est.                                 2,500       2,500        2.500                      7.500                       7,500
Poblications                                    Est.                                                         10,000                     10,000                      10,000
Preparation for In-Service Training             Est.                                 5,000                                               5,000                       5,000
Travel and Per Diam Allowance                   Est.                                 1,500       1,500        1,500                      4,500                       4,500
Allo-ance for Special Studies                   Est.                                10.000      10.000       IO,,0                      30,000                      30,000
Sub-total                                                                      32,200      19,200       29.200                     80,600                      80,600
Contingencies                                                                     900       1.400        3.200                      5.500                       5,50
TOTAL - Operating Cost                                                         33,100      20,600       32,400                     86,100                      86,100
TOTAL - Incrmeental Recurrent Cost                                             72,000      63,200       78,800         900        214 900                     214,900
TOTAL - SERVICE STATISTICS SYSTEM                                             12900        63200        78.80          900        214.900      110,900        2



Appendix I
Suggested Terms of Reference for the Evaluation
Adviser for the Inspection Directorate
1.        Assist the Director, Inspection Directorate in:
(a) Development of forms for records and reports, and manuals
for the family planning service statistics system.
(b) Training programs for the staff at the ID, districts
and thana health centers.
(c) Programs for processing of service statistics and feedback.
(d) Scrutiny of data on births, deaths and use of contraceptive
methods that are being collected via the family planning
and health cards/forms.
(e) Analysis of data in the reports received in the ID; and
(f) Review of the working of the service statistics systems as
a whole.
2.        Qualifications:  An expert in the analysis of family planning and
vital statistics with experience in the development of a service statistics
system for the family planning program.



1,SmAYI'7E 1 8
3BNGL20ESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Research
1.        The Planning Commission has already set up a Working Group on
the development of population research in Bangladesh. The working group
has recommended areas of priority research, listed the institutions that
have potential for conducting such research and provided the guidelines for
establishing a Population Studies Center (PSC) at the Bangladesh Institute
of Development Studies (BIDS). The Ford Foundation and the Population Coun-
cil are assisting the BIDS in setting up the PSC.
Study on the Determinants of Rep2roductive Behavior
2.        The list of research studies that has been prepared is quite com-
prehensive and puts a study of the determinants of reproductive behavior in
the country as one of the priorities. The importance of such a study, at
this stage in Bangladesh when it is launching a broad multisectoral popula-
tion program, cannot be over-emphasized. For example, the population program
for the first time gives support to the development programs of various min-
istries that are aimed at changing the role and status of women. These pilot
schemes included in the project are based on hypotheses generated from a num-
ber of surveys undertaken in the country and outside whlich showed a high nega-
tive correlation between the educational and economic status of women and fer-
tility levels. The surveys have been mainly in the nature of opinion surveys
of knowledge, attitude and practice of family planning or on the fertility
differential by socio-economic status. No in-depth analysis has so far been
made of the factors that determine the demand for a particular number of
children. The basic issue in this regard is to what extent family-size con-
siderations are based on rational economic caluclations? W4hat are var_ous
non-pecuniary considerations that determine the size of family among various
socio-economic groups and how far can their respective roles be measured
(Appendix I). An assessment, therefore, of family size considerations I'y
these factors would reveal interesting results for policy-makers. 1/
1/ T. Paul Schultz, Determinants of Fertility: A Micro Economic Model of
Choice, University of Minnesota, October, 1973. Also, see by the same
author - "Explanation of Birth Rate Changes of Space and Time; A Study
of Taiwan, "Journal of Political Economy. March/April 1973. Also, "A
Preliminary Survey of Economic Analysis of Fertility", The American
Economic Review, May 19?3.



2
Few -ivypo thescs
3.        In the search for determinants of fertility one could identify a
variety of social factors that lead Bangladesh couples to have an average
of 5 to 6 children. For example, by age 19 almost all females are married
(50% are married by the age of 13). Because their husbands are on the aver-
age 10 years older, the incidence of widowhood is according'ly high (approxi-
mately 45% of women 45-54 years old are widows). This could well intensify
the demand of mothers for children, especially sons, for security during
the period of widowhood. We observe also that female participation in the
labor force in Bangladesh has little demographic significance since only
6 percent of the women who were married were reported in the labor force in
1969. The question as it bears on fertility is not only of women participating
in paid employment, but of female opportunities generally and their status in
the family and society. This relates to the larger consideration that in a
society, where mobility is very low and traditional agriculture provides the
main source of livelihood, individual decisions and behavior are controlled
by social forces that transcend individual personalities. It is doubtful that
fertility-related policies, however, theoretically valid and administratively
efficient they may be, could achieve their potential objectives without con-
sidering community characteristics and social structure.
4.        Finally, one could advance the view that without a sense of sharing
the fruits of national development individuals are unlikely to respond
positively to social programs aimed at altering their behavior. For this
reason consideration in research needs to be given to factors that deter-
mine income distribution, social mobility and to the broad question of
equity.
5.        Many of the relationships mentioned above are not adequately
understood either in theory or in fact. Most of the needed information
will be obtained by means of field surveys. Conducting adequate and
reliable surveys requires not only technical skills but also experienced
personnel and complex administrative machinery. It seems essential that
a viable research program should start on a pilot basis. Initial pilot
studies should serve as a vehicle to build personnel and organizational
capabilities and refined methodology. It should also address itself to
substantive questions.
6.        A final goal in the design is to develop a national sample frame
that serves as a base for a periodical information gathering system to
monitor and understand fertility behavior and its social and economic de-
terminants. The trade-off in terms of the cost and benefits of the quality
and utility of needed information between a national-community oriented
sample design and selected area design will be given careful consideration.
The constraints of personnel availability and supervision are only some of
the considerations. Others are the speed of the gathering of information,
its analysis and utilization.



Page 3
Mthodo}c
7.        An initial part of this study will be to review and build on exist-
ing demographic and socio-economic knowledge of Bangladesh and utilize find-
ings of current research on the process of social change in Bangladesh, now
in progress by the investigators and others at Johns Hopkins University.
8.        The second part of the study is to blend existing theory and knowl-
edge in the context of Bangladesh's current experience in order to develop
a program of studies that is both relevant and feasible. Studies will be
designed to focus on the following two basic dimensions of fertility behav-
ior:
(a) Age at marriage and marital stability;
(b) Family formation: completed family size and child
spacing.
To understand these two basic dimensions of fertility behavior the following
determinants of fertility that are subject to direct and/or indirect govern-
ment policy instruments will be examined:
(a) Child value and productivity of child labor (including
the interaction with education, infant and child
mortality and morbidity);
(b) Female employment and work opportunities;
(c) Family structure and networks; and
(d) Income distribution, equity and social mobility.
9.        While these factors are subject to direct and/or indirect policy
intervention, there is a gap in knowledge about the factors that influence
the effectiveness of various policy actions. Therefore attention will be
given to examining, on individual and community levels, variables related
to the implementation and effectiveness of social policies. An important
question in this regard is the reception accorded the instruments and agen-
cies of policy and conversely, the view of their task taken by those respon-
sible for policy implementation.
Phasing
10.       These studies are considered as a three-phase operation.  An im-
portant output of Phase I will, be a detailed development of plans for Phase II
and Phase III with provisional estimates of budget, time schedules and needs
for personnel and institutional development. Phase II includes the develop-
ment in detail of pilot studies that would have as an important objective
the development of research and technical capabilities in Bangladesh in
preparation for more substantial research projects that constitute the main



Pae4
c-iv'my    aThase II.  Phase 1l7  is concerned with analyss , interpretation
and evaluation of findings, their policy implications and projections of
plans for future research activities. Work on the Phase I was completed on
October 15, 1974 through Bank assistance.
11.       A major part of the work in these studies will be done in Bangladesh
in consultation with local professionals and with the services of some outside
consultants. It is also expected that Johns Hopkins University, which was
involved in Phase I of the program and has experts either from Bangladesh or
with extensive experience, will participate actively in the work.
Work Schedule
Completion of detailed planning
of studies                         July 1975
Initiation of pilot studies          August 1975
Completion of pilot studies          December 1976
Initiation of nation mid studies   January 1977
Completion of nation mid studies   June 1978
Cost
12.       The total cost of the research program is estimated at US$420,500.
The details are given in the table at the end of this annex.
Study of National Laws for Their Pronatality Impact
13.       It is not known what effect, if any, existing national laws may
have on the size of families couples choose to have. An examination of
national laws for their pronatality impact might reveal desirable or un-
desirable biases in the country's law which should be strengthened or
changed. It is therefore recommended that the PPD should establish a
committee that will commission a study of national laws. The study might
include such topics as tax law, property law (including the law of inheri-
tance), family law (including the lawful age at marriage), criminal law
(including e.g. law of abortion) and similar subjects. The committee would
submit to IDA the recommendations and or changes in laws as appear appropri-
ate. The terms of reference for this study should be acceptable to IDA.
Work Schedule
Formation of the Committee                March 1975
Submission of terms of reference
to IDA                                  April 1975
Completion of the study                   June 1976
Submission of recommendations
to NPC                                  December 1976



ANNEX 18
Page 5
Cost
14.       The total cost of the study is US$40OOO.  The amount is provided
with the PPD.



COSTIESTI21ATESO0F POPULATION PROCRAM OF, BAN LADES  INSTIT OE 0      1 D10ELME4NT STUDIES                                     Page 6
Basis of Estiratiac and Phasing    1975-76       1976-77      1977 U78     193Sj         local         Foreign        Tote
A. FERTIIITY ST10IES
1. Vehicles
6  Fo-wheel Drive Vehiel*s                      $5,700                              34,200                                                             34,200         34,200
contiegeccies                                                                1 900                                                               ,90           I 900
15103. - Vehicles                                                           36,100                                                             36,110         36,100
2 -'enci aS Equiwnt
4 Airconditi-nere                               $400                                  1,600                                                              1,600
4 Calculator-                                   $400                                  1,600                                                              1,6G0          1,600
2 Typewritern                                   $400                                   SOO                                                                 600         _840
Slb-total                                                                    4,000                                                              400 04 uS0
Continge.cies                                                                  200                                                                200
TOTAL - Specle1 Esuip_et                                                     4,200                                                              4,200
3. Technicl Anslit-nce
a  Advisers
Resident Consultant                          24   $40,000 p.a.                   40,000       40,000                                                80,000         80 -00
SOelot Concultact                            6s  $30,000 p...                     7,500        7,500                                                15,00C          15 000
Research Associate                           12s  $18,000 p.a.                     9,000       9,000                                                 18,000         I0
Consultants                                  4e  $5,000 p...                     10,000       10,000                                                20,000         03
. Fee to Uni-ersicy                             21T of above                         14,000      14,000                                                 28  000         0O
TOTAL - Technical Assistance                                                80,500       80,500                                               161,000        161 CC0
4. lecreoo-tal Recurrent Cost
a. l,alr  Support
1 Director                                   TKI1,600 p.. - 100                   3,100        3,200        3,400                      9,700                        9,n
1 Statistioias/Desographer                   TKI,200 - 100                        2,300        2,500        2.700                      7,500                        7, 70
3 S-cial Research Officers                   TX750 - 75                           4,300        4,700        5,100                      14,100                      14,1C0
2 Statiticsl Asnistants                      TK250-25                             1,000        1,100        1,200                       3,300                        3,3co
5 Field Superoinors                          TR350-25                             3,300        3,600        3,800                      16,0'.                       10,i70
22 letasviewers/Ens_rarore                    TX250-20                            10,500       11,300       12,100                     33,900                       33 903
6 Editors/Coders                             TK250-20                             2,900        3,100        3,300                       9,300                        9,3C
2 Kcy.ponch Op-tortrs                        TK220-15                               S00          900        1,000                       2,700                        2,700
6Drivers                                     T140-7                               1,600        1,700        1,800                       5,100                       5,100
2 Prone                                      TY80-3                                 300          320          340                         960                          90[
slb-total                                                                   30,100       32,420      34,740                      97,260                       97, 26
Salary Adjitecent                                                            7.500        8.080       8,660                      24.240                       24,2C0
Sob-total                                                                   37,600       40,500      43,400                     121,500                      121,500
Co-tinge-cies                                                                1.000      3.000         4.800                       8.800                        8 a00
TOTAL - Salaries                                                            38,600       43,500      48,200                     130,300                      130,300
b. OperatinceC_t
Office Furciture                                                                  2,000                                                 2,000                        2,003
Office SlPplies                                                                   9,300          700          700                      10,700                       10,703
Vehicle Maintenance                                                               9.500        9,500        9,500                      28,500                       28,500
Special Equip.eet Maintenance                                                       200          200          200                         600                          600
Travel All-wances                            $4,000 p.y.(2 perso-s)foreige;    13,000         10,100        4,000                      23,100        4,000          27,100
92,000 p.y. Incal
(TA - Interviewer T85/day
1st yr - 12 -s, 2nd yr - 8 ea,
3rd yr - 6 ass
TA - S.pervisora T(10/day.)
Co=puter Ties                                                                        00        3.500 40 10.000                                       _             10, 000
Rub-total                                                                   36,500       24,000       18,400                     74,900         4,000         78,900
CoctiAge tcits                                                               2.000        3.600      4.400                        9,600           400         10 003
TOTAL - OperatIng Cest                                                      38,500       27,600      22,800                      84,500         4,400         80,900
TOTAL - Incremental 8ecorent Cost                                           77,100       71,100      71,000                     214,800         4,400        219,200
TOTAL - FERTILITY STUDY                                                    197.900      151 600       71.000                    214.00        205f 700       420,500
sc = - ton nonths
p.s  - per year
p.c  - per ...th



ANNEX 18
COST ESTE4ATES QF 20MulATIO  P2,GRASI OF BAhGLAQESh IESTITS'TE OF OiVELOF NNT STUDIES                                      Fage 7
U. S 
BACLs of E4tmtion nAi  rasic    1975-76        1976-77     1977:Z       19iLL7       L.c.         F-oreign       Total
B. SEMI7Hr FOl u;I,4TECAi LXAAWNSS
Operatina Co0t
G.est Participants                                                                   5,000                                                           5,000         5,000
150 Local Participants - Travl 6 Per Dien        TK65 each                           1,300                                              1,300                      1,300
Conference h 1l                                                                        700                                                700                        700
Printing and Publication                                                             2,000                                              2,000                      2,000
OrgacisXtion, Secretarial, CornwyanC of
Participants, etc.                                                                                                                    3.000                      3 300
TOTAL - SEMINAR FOR POLITICAL lEADERS                                           .00                                               7_000        5,000        12_000
C. TOTALS
Vahicles e                                                                          34,200                                                          34,200        34,200
Special Equipment                                -                                   4,000                                                           4,000         4,000
Technical Ae-istance                             -                                  80,500      80,500                                             161,000        161,000
Incr-ental Recurrent Cost                        -                                  86.100      64,500      61,800                    203,400        9,000       212,400
Contingencies                                                                        5.100       6.600       9,200                     18,400        2.500        20,900
TOTAL - INSTITUTE OF DEVELOPHENT STUDIES                                     209.900     151.6D0      71.000                    221,800   43 200



A2iNEX 1 9
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Type, Number and Location of Physical Facilities
Nursing College
Model Family Planning Clinic
FFWW Training School
Thana Field Training Health Complex
Union Health Sub-Center
District           ])ivision
1    3  Rajshahi           l]ajshahi.
1            Dinajpur
1            Bogra
1    3  Rangpur
1            Khulna              Khulna
1            Kushtia
Barisal
1    3  Jessore
1    3  Dacca              Dacca
1    1    3 Faridpur
1            Tangail
_  1      1    3 Mymensingh
1    3  Chittagong          Chittagong
1         1    3  Sylhet
1            Comilla
1            Chittagong Hill
_Tracts                _
4    8    8   24



A2iNEX 20
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Project Administration
1.        This annex describes the agencies responsible for the overall pop-
ulation project administration and the structure within each of the six min-
istries responsible for the implementation of the different components of
the project. The organizational structure is depicted in Chart 9488.
I. Overall Administration
2.        Project administration will rely primarily on those existing agen-
cies within the Government that will be responsible for the population plan-
ning program administration and implementation (Annex 2).  No new entity
for project administration will be created except a Building Planning and
Design Unit (BPDU) which is to be established at the MOHPP. The BPDU will
have major responsibility for the implementation of the construction compo-
nent of the project. All non-construction activities will be the responsi-
bility of the respective executing ministries or agencies, which shall main-
tain progress reports and conduct internal evaluation. The newly established
Population Program Division (PPD), in collaboration with the Health and
Population Planning Section of the Planning Commission (PPS), will have major
responsibility for overall monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the
project's activities. A project financial officer will be placed in the PPD.
The office will have adequate staff to check the use of resources in the
field. Also, on behalf of all donors, a population project officer has been
proposed for the Bank's resident mission in Dacca to provide continuous
project follow up.
Population Planning Division
3.        The Population Planning Division will be responsible for the fol-
lowing:
(a)  To supervise the implementation of project activities
of the different ministries;
(b) To provide technical support to the different minis-
tries and agencies involved in the planning and imple-
mentation of their schemes in the project;
(c) To conduct and arrange for training of the personnel
involved in the schemes of different ministries in the
project;



aEmi3x 20
PaSge 2
(d) To assist in the Internal evaluation of the programs
of the different ministries and in the analysis of
the results of internal evaluation and its feedback
to the Planning Commission;
(e)  To coordinate and insure timely procurement of serv-
ices, vehicles and equipment for the project; and
(f) To coordinate the statements of expenditures and
the signing of withdrawal applications through the
project's financial officer.
4.        The PPD is expected to have adequate staff to discharge the func-
tions described above. However, for purposes of centralizing project finan-
cial responsibility and preparing applications for withdrawal of the credit
proceeds, a special project finance officer shall be designated by the Min-
istry of Finance to be placed at the PPD. This officer will have adequate
staff in the General Accounts Office to check the use of personnel, equip-
ment, vehicles and other necessary resources in the field before signing the
withdrawal application.
Health and Population Planning Section of the Planning Commission (PPS)
5.        The PPS will have the following responsibilities:
(a) To review and approve the schemes prepared by the
different ministries and agencies;
(b) To allocate funds for these schemes of different
ministries and agencies on the basis of the progress
review;
(c) To liaise with IDA and other donors and provide
regular progress reports;
(d) To arrange for implementing external evaluations of
the project activities under different ministries
and agencies and to ensure necessary follow-up
measures; and
(e) To receive internal evaluation reports from the
Population Planning Division for use in preparing
the report for proper feedback to different agencies
involved in the project.
b.        The project provides for the establishment of an external evalua-
tion unit at the PPS (see Annex 15). Although the PPS already has a small
staff and some resources it will get the necessary technical support from
outside to form two study groups on (a) information, education and commu-
nication, and (b) evaluation and research activities. These groups are



e ct.d t  p=ov de tecemicai advice in t'.se tw  areas to the FPS in order
to plan and review the program of the different ministries. The functions
and composition of these groups are given in Appendices I and II.
Population Project Officer for the Bank Resident MIssion
7.        Because of the size and complexity of the project, IDA and other
donors feel that there is need for continuous monitoring and follow-up.
Therefore, as indicated earlier, a proposal has been made to place a popu-
lation project officer in the Bank resident mission in Dacca. The cost of
such an appointment for four years is to be shared by IDA and other donors
on a pro rata basis.
II. Implementation of Specific Components
Non-Health Ministries
8.        To provide a locus of project activities population program offi-
cers (PPOs) are to be appointed in all ministries (except the HOHPP) involved
in the implementation of the project, namely Ministries of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives, Agriculture, Education, Information and
Broadcasting, Labor and Social Welfare. The PPOs will be mainly responsible
for the administration of the project within the existing organization of
each ministry. These PPOs would report to the heads of relevant sections
(directly related to the population program) of the concerned ministries.
The PPOs would submit periodic progress reports on the implementation of
the project to the Population Planning Division through the heads of the
relevant sections. The functions of PPOs and their status in the ministry
concerned are discussed in the annexes dealing with the programs of these
ministries.
Ministry of Health and Population Planning
9.        The Health Division of the Ministry of Health and Population Plan-
ning (MOHPP), along with the Building Directorate, will be responsible for
the implementation of the total construction component of the project. In
addition, the implementation of non-construction activities under the Health
Division will be the responsibility of the Secretary responsible for family
planning program. For the construction program, the GOB will establish
within the MOHPP a Building Planning and Design Unit (BPDU).
Building Planning and Design Unit
10.       The BPDU will report directly to the Secretary.  It will have
powers to enter into contracts with consultants and suppliers of furniture
and equipment, and it will work closely with other agencies involved in the
implementation process, such as the MOHMP Planning Cell and the Building
Directorate.



M: 20
?age 4
Ii.      eTh  d-uties of the B2DU will be primarily:
(a)  to be responsible for final site selection, based
on criteria approved by IDA;
(b) to promote expeditious site acquisitions by the
local and central authorities involved;
(c) to be responsible for developing a construction
program, including planning of procurement, in
consultation with the Building Directorate;
(d) to be responsible for the establishment of standards,
preparing of functional programs, designs, and tender
documents which will be approved by and handed over
to the Building Directorate;
(e) to cooperate with the Building Directorate in tendering
procedures and supervision of civil works;
(f) to promote and coordinate timely commissioning of the
project facilities (staffing, equipment, supplies,
connecting utilities, etc.);
(g) to be responsible for preparation of the necessary
documents for procurement of furniture and equipment,
and for tendering procedures and contracts regarding
these items; and
(h) to report project progress to the Planning Commission
and to IDA on an agreed regular basis.
12.       The BPDU will be staffed with the following:
(a) a head of the unit: This will be a full-time position,
neld by either a senior civil servant or a suitable
architect or engineer. IDA should approve the creden-
tials of the candidate before his appointment, and the
salary be charged to the credit;
(b) a project architect;
(c) a senior engineer;
(d)  a project accountant (to be seconded from the MHDPP);
(e) a procurement, equipment and supplies officer with
sufficient previous experience in this area; and
(f) secretarial support to be provided by the MOHPP.



AN'.EEX 20
Page 5
-1r:ii2  Prc-ct Manage'ent Consultants
13.       To enable the BPDU to perform its duties, it should be supported
by foreign or local consultants, assisting in all its duties as mentioned
above. This will require one or more consultant firms experienced in site
selection, land acquisition procedures, construction planning and manage-
ment, equipment specification and listing, cost strategy and control, and
procedures of procurement. These services will be delivered preferably by
a foreign project management consultant in joint venture with a local firm,
since this profession became represented in Bangladesh only recently.
14.       The project management consultant will be allowed direct contact
with the MOHPP Permanent Secretary, and also access to all relevant docu-
ments regarding the project.
1.       Terms, conditions and appointment of consultants and architects
shall be mutually acceptable to the Government and IDA.
Executive Architects
16.       The project management consultant will be required to retain the
services of one or more executive architects with customary engineering and
allied technical support, responsible for detailed design and scheduling,
as well as for the preparation of tender documents and supervision of the
construction of individual project facilities by the customary periodic
inspection of work in progress. Day-to-day supervision of construction
will be provided by the field staff of the Building Directorate.
Building Utilization Studies
17.       There are three topics affecting the use and life of the physical
facilities in the program which give cause for concern. These are (a) the
weakness of building maintenance activities, which threatens to shorten
building life, (b) the weakness of procedures for procuring and distri-
buting essential supplies which, when shortages occur, makes it impossible
to offer services for which buildings are designed, and (c) uncertainty as
to the suitability of facilities until tested by use. These topics will be
the subject of studies at appropriate periods during the project life. The
proposed BPDU in the MOHPP will be responsible for supervising a study of
present and recommended supply procedures which are closely related to tile
Unit's responsibility for commissioning project buildings. This study shall
be started during the first year of the project. The BPDU will also be re-
sponsible for supervising a study of the use made of each type of project
facility and of the strengths and weaknesses of facility design. The study
will be conducted by a qualified contractor to be selected in an agreement be-
tween the Borrower and IDA; the study will be done after project facilities
have been completed and in operation for a reasonable time. The detailed
terms of reference are given in Appendix I and the cost estimates in Annex
22. The possibility of improved maintenance will be discussed with the
responsible Ministries (MOHPP and MOW).



IA2iYIA 20
L??endix I
Page I
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Information, Education
and Communication (IEC) Planning Working Group
The IEC Planning Working Group should consist of a core of qualified
IEC experts in the country - representatives of various ministries involved
in population programs. This group should have the following functions:
(a) preparation of an inventory of existing resources -
human, technical and institutional - existing policies
and planning procedures, and previous experiences to
identify areas of cooperation and coordination;
(b) identification and recommendation of planning approaches
and the practical ways and means to create and effectively
use a common pool of resources and technical skills;
(c) development of policies and methodology to ensure the
development of integrated "total development" communica-
tion messages within which family planning messages will
be firmly but sensitively included;
(d) devising of plan procedures to ensure the vital element
of coordination at research, inception, plan formulation
and development, implementation, field level evaluation
and feedback levels of the communication program;
(e) development of plans for evaluation of IEC activities; and
(f) identification of areas and institutes for communication
research.



N.ZMEM 20
Appendix 'II
Page I
BANGIADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Evaluation Working Group
The Evaluation Working Grcup should consist of experts in the
country (from universities, research institutes, and governmental organi-
zations) to help the Population Planning Division in:
(a) preparing a detailed plan of evaluation of the
program and its various activities;
(b) assigning responsibilities for the evaluation
studies to different universities and research
institutions;
(c) discussing the methodology and framework of
evaluation studies;
(d) reviewing the system of routine program evaluation
in the country; and
(e) establishing the program information feedback system
to assist in improving program strategy and imple-
mentation.



A i'EX 20
Appendix III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference Lor the Building Utilization Study
1.        The Government of Bangladesh and IDA have agreed that it would be
desirable to conduct a functional evaluation of a sample of project facili-
ties after they have been in operation for some time. This evaluation would
be important for the design of facilities as part of the subsequent expan-
sion of the rural health system. The main goal of the evaluation study is to
relate both capital costs and operational costs (salaries, materials, main-
tenance and replacements) to: (a) staff member and work-time; (b) facilities
used for various functions; and (c) the amount of services delivered (health
care, family planning, health education, in-service training, etc.).
2.        The study will also assess whether the facilities provided do in
practice constitute optimal tools for the functions to be performed within
them.
3.        The design of the study including the sample design, questionnaires,
checklists and timetable, would require expertise in architecture and health
planning on the utilization of facilities. The end-product would be a report
on the utilization of facilities containing a statistical analysis accompa-
nied by narrative commentary and a final evaluation and recommendations.
4.        The field work would be carried out by a team comprised of 2 archi-
tect/health planners, one financial analyst (or statistician with experience
in budgeting and accounting) and one public health specialist (preferably
with experience in community health 4nd family planning programs).
5.        The statistical information would need to be gathered at various
administrative levels. Other information would be obtained through inter-
views with local staff and actual observation of activities.
6.        The study will require careful preparation both by the Government
and the Bank and would be performed by consultants with thorough experience
in planning and evaluation of health facilities. The consultants would be
appointed and briefed by the Government with Bank assistance and approval
concerning their qualifications. Credit funds have been provided for this
study.



AlqNEY 20
Appendix III
Page 2
7.       Specific questions to be Included in the terms of reference of
the consultants shall be agreed upon by the Goverrment and IDA and will be
further discussed with the consultants at the time of their appointment.
Consultants will be selected by the Goverment and approved by IDA by
end of 1977 and will be appointed to initiate the study not later than
June 30, 1978.



aANGL.D:ADESH
POPULATIcx NDRJECT                                   .age
Detail Cost Estimates of the Project's Physical Facilities
TK (in thousands)                             bS3 (in thousands)
Iacal      Foreig      Total                 Local       Foreign      Total
Nursing College (1)
Site Preparation                         302          434        736                 38.5           55.4      93.3
Construction                           1,957         2,944     4,901                 251.1         375.8      625.6
Professional Fees                        338           223       451                  43.1          14.4       57.6
Furniture and Equipment                  245           981     1,226                  31.3         125.2      156.5
Fees for Furrlture and
Equipment                                46            15        61                   5-9           1.S        7.8
Subtotal (i)                      2,888        4,487      7,375                368.6          572.7     941.3
Physical Contingencies                   273          427        700                  34.S          54.5       99.3
Price Contingencies                    2,322         3,632     5,254                 296.4         463.6      760.0
Subtotal (ii)                     5,483        8,546    14,029                 699.8        1,090.8   1,790.6
Model FP Clinic (4)
Site Preparation                         194           280       474                  24.8          35.7      .60.5
Construction                           2,074         2,870     4,944                 264.7         366.3      631.0
Professional Fees                        313           104       417                  40.0          13.3       53.3
Purniture and Equipment                  346         1,385     1,731                  44.2         176.8      221.0
Fees for Furniture and
Equipment                                61            21        82                   7.8           2.7       1O.5
Subtotal (i)                      2,988        4,660      7,648                381.3          595.0     976.3
Physical Contingencies                   283           443       726                  36.1          56.5       92.6
Price Contingencies                    2.408         3.767     6,17j                 307.4         480.7      788.2
Subtotal (ii)                     5,679        8,870    14,549                  724.8       1,132.2   1,857.1
FPN Training Schools (8)
Site Preparation                       1,547         2,227     3,774                 197.5         284.2      481.7
Construction                          10,539       15,750    26,289                1,345.2       2,010.3   3,355.5
Professional Fees                      1,735          579      2,314                 221.5          73.8      295.3
Furniture and Equipment                1,315         5,258     6,573                 167.8         671.1      839.0
Fees for Furniture and
Equipment                               235            79       314                  30.C          10.0       40.1
Subtotal (i)                     15,371       23,893    39,264               1,962.C        3,049.6   5,011.6
Physical Contingencies                 1,455         2,275     3,730                 185.7         290.4      476.1
Price  Contingencies                  12.363       19,337    31,700                1.578.0       2,468.2   4,046.2
Subtotal (ii)                    29,189       45,505    74,694               3,725.7        5,808.3   9,534.0
Thana Health Complexes (8)
Site Preparation                       3,368         4,847     8,315                 429.9         618.7   1,048.6
Construction                          17,900        25,025    42,925               2,284.8       3,194.2   5,479.0
Professional Fees                      1,479           493     1,972                 188.8          62.9      251.7
Furniture and Equipment                2,1146        8,586    10,732                 273.9       1,095.9   1,369.8
Fees for Furniture and
Equipment                               154            51       205                  19.7           6.5       26.2
Subtotal (i)                     25,047       39,002    64,049               3,197.0        4,978.2   8,175.2
Physical Contingencies                 2,373         3,712     6,085                 302.9         473.8      776.7
Price  Contingencies                  20.167        31.544    51.711               2,574.1       4,026.3   6.600.4
Subtotal (ii)                    47,587       74,258   121,845               6,074.0        9,478.3  15,552.3
Union Health Subcenters (24)
Site Preparation                         629           906     1,535                  80.3         115.6      195.9
Construction                           3,238         4,787     8,025                 413.3         611.0   1,024.3
Professional Fees                        461           154       615                  58.8          19.7       78.5
Furniture and Equipment                  401         1,606     2,007                  51.2         205.0      256.2
Fees for Furniture and
Equipment                                72            24        96                   9.2           3.1       12.2
Subtotal Ci)                      4,801        7,477    12,278                  612.8         954.4   1,467.2
Physical Contingencies                   455           712     1,167                  58.1          90.9      149.0
Price Contingencies                                  6.047     9.913                 493.5         771.8   1.265.3
Subtotal (ii)                     9,122       14,236    23,358               1,164.3        1,817.1   2,981.4
Totals
Site Preparation                       6,040         8,694    14,734                 771.0       1,109.6   1,880.6
Construction                          35,708       51,376    87,084                4,557.8       6,557.6  11,115.4
Professional Fees                      4,326         1,443     5,769                 552.1         184.2      736.4
Furniture and Equipment                4,453        17,816    22,269                 568.4       2,274.0   2,842.4
Fees for Furniture and
Equipment                               568           190       758                  72.5           24.3      96.8
Subtotal (i)                     51,095       79,513   130,614                6,521.8      10,149.8  16,671.6
Physical  Contingenciea                4,839         7,569    12,408                 617.7         966.1   1,583.8
Price Contingencies                   41.126        64.327   105.453               5.249.3       8.210.7  13.460.0
total                         97.060      151.4125  2IA -C7t% IaR R                     -l -4 LI  ,5      I



AN(EX 22
Page 1
BTANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES OF THE PROJECT'S NON-PHYSICAL FACILITIES
TK (000's)                       US$ (000's)
Local     Foreign   Total        Local    Foreign    Total
A. POPULATION PIANNING DIVISION (PPD)
1. Cffice of the PPD
Technical Assistance                                      345     345                      h4        44
2. Management Study
Technical Assistance                                     391      391                      50        50
3.  Study of Countr-'Zs Laws
Technical Assistance                                      157     157                      20        20
Incremental Recurrent Cost                   157                  157           20                   20
Subtotal                              17          17       3            20 2301
4.  Evaluation of Integrated Delivery of Services
Technical Assistance a/                                  391      391                      50        50
5. Overall Project Review
-T.chnical Assistance a/                                 407      407                      52        52
6.  Base-line Surveys
Incremental Recurrent Cost                 1,057                1,057          135                  135
Other Evaluation and Research Studies
.ncremental Recurrent Cost                1,378         _      1,378          176                  176
TOTAL - POPULATION PLANNING
DIVISION                   2,592        1,691   4,283          331         216      547
B.    :    AND POPUIATION PLANNING SECTION OF THE
A....jNG COMMISSION (PPSP
I.Office of the PPS (Evaluation Section)
Vehicles                                                  266     266                      314       34
Special Equipment                                          71      71                       9         9
Technical Assistance                                       31      31                        4        14
Incremental Recurrent Cost                   747                  747           95                   95
Contingencies                                 73           19      92            9          3        12
Subtotal                              820         387   1,207          104          50      15T
2. Follow-up Evaluation Surveys
Incremental Recurrent Cost b/              1,761                1,761          225                  225
3.  Evaluation of Integrated Delivery of Services
Incremental Recurrent Cost b/                587                  587           75                   75
L. Overal.l Project Review
Incremental Recurrent Cost                   219                  219           28                   28
TOTAL - HEALTH AND POPULATION
PLANNING SECTION OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION        3,387          387   3,774          432          50      482
a/ To be used by PPS.
b/  Technical assistance rrovided under PPD.



.'.:c;zx 22
Page 2
TIC (000'Usr$ (000's)
Local     Foreign   Total          ..ocai    Foreign    Total
C.  MINISTRY OP LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND RURL
DEVELOPMENT
1. Office of the Population Program Officer
Vehicles                                                   925        925                     118        118
Special Equipment                                          227        227                      29         29
Technical Assistance                                       345        345                      44         44
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    1,410                 1,410          180                   180
Price Contingencies                             149        117        266           19         15         34
Total - Office of the Population
Program Officer             1,559      1,614      3,173          i99        206        405
2. Rural Women's Functional Literacy Program
Special Equipment                               313        329        642           40         42         82
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    2,045                2,045           261                   261
Contingencies                                   188         31        219           24          4         28
Total - Rural Women's Functional
Literacy Program            2.546        360      2,906          325         46        371
3. Use of Model Farmers and Cooperative
Managers
Vehicles                                                    16         16                       2          2
Special Equipment                                       5,210      5,210                      665        665
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    1,6111               1,614           206                   206
Contingencies                                   125        525        650           16         67         83
Total - Use of Model Farmers and
Cooperative Managers        1,739      5.751      7,490          222        734        956
4. Internal Evaluation
Special Equipment                                            8          8                       1          1
Incremental Recurrent Cost                      102                   102           13                    13
Contingencies                                     *                    *             *          _
Total - Internal Evaluation            102          8        110           13                    14
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVT.
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT       5,946      7.733    13.679            759        987     1,746
D. NNT7RY OF LABOR AND SOCIAL WELFARE
'. - .hers' Club
ehicles                                                   227        227                      29         29
Special Equipment                                        1,520      1,520                     194        194
Technical Assistance                                       188        188                      24         24
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    3,008                 3,008          384                   384
Contingencies                                   275        221        596           35         41         76
Total - Mothers' Club                3.283      2,2        5,539          419        288        707
_c-zwn's Rehabilitation Program
;eh;cles                                                  164        164                      21         27
Special Equipment                                            8          8                       1          1
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    3,362                 3,362          429                   429
Contingencies                                   352          8        360           45          1         46
Total - Women's Rehabilitation
Program                     3.714        180      3.894          474         23        497
3. Population Program for Organized Labor
Vehicles                                                   180        180                      s          23
Special Equipment                                          117        117                      15         15
Technical Assistance                                       188        188                      24         24
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    1,238                 1,238          158                   158
Contingencies                                   133         16        149           17          2         19
Total - Population Program for
Organized Labor             1,371        501      1,872          175         64        239
4. Internal Evaluation
Special Equipment                                            8          8                       1          1
Incremental Recurrent Cost                      102                   102           13                    13
Contingencies                                     *                     *            *                     *
Total - Internal Evaluation             102          8        110           13           1         14
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF LABOR AND
SOCIAL WELFARE               8 470      2.945    11,415         _081         376      1,457
*  Less than 1 at the US$ columns and less than 7.8 at the TK columns.



ANREX 22
Pagu 3
Tn (000's)                          15    O'
local      Poreign   "otal         Ioc6l      oeG        Total
. EnhZRY  Wr i.AJRTCUILTU'RE
1. Use     * m-=cutural  Assistants
Veil<Iles                                                   212        212                      27         27
Special Equipment                                           212        212                      27         27
Technical Assistance                                         30         30                       4          4
Incremental Recurrent Cost                       526                   526           67                    67
Contingencies                                   _54          31         85            7          4         11
Total - Agricultural
Assistants                      580        485    12065             74          62        136
2. Internal Evaluation
Incremental Recurrent Cost                        71                    71            9                      9
Total - lnternal Evaluation               71                    71             9                     9
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE          651        485      1_136           83          62        145
F. MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
i. Office of Population Program Officer
Vehicles                                                     47         47                        6          6
Technical Assistance                                         31         31                        4          4
Incremental Recurrent Cost                       133                   133           17                     17
Contingencies                                     16          *         16            2          *           2
Total - Office of Population Program
Officer                         149         78        227            19         10         29
2. Population Education Team for Teachers'
Seminar
Vehicles                                                     86         86                       11         11
Special Equipment                                            24         24                       3           3
Incremental Recurrent Cost                       909                   909          116                    116
Contingencies                                    133          8        141           17           1         18
Total - Population Education Team
for Teachers' Seminar         1,042        lie      1.160           133         15        148
3. CurriculumDevelopment and Teachers'
Trr4,11Lne
Vehlicles                                                    47         47                        6          6
Specisl Equipment                                            *          *                        *
Technical Assistance                                        313        313                      40          40
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    2,069                 2,069           264                   264
Contingencies                                   274          *         274           35          *35
Total - Curriculum Development
and Teachers' Training        2.343        360      2 703          299          46        345
4. National Seminar on Population Education
Incremental Recurrent Cost                        31                    31            4                      4
Ccntingencies                                                            *            *                     *
Total - National Seminar on
Population Education             31                    31             4                     4
5. Internal Evaluation
Incremental Recurrent Cost                        71                    71            9                      9
Total - Internal Evaluation               71                    71             9                     9
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION          3,636        556      4.192          464          71        535
G. MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING
1. Office of Population Program Officer
Vehicles                                                     47         47                        6          t
Special Equipment                                             *          *                       *          *
Technical Assistance                                        188        188                       24         24
Incremental Recurrent Cost                       149                   149           19                     19
Contingencies                                     15          *         15            2          *           2
Total - Office of Population
Program Officer                 164        235        399            21         30         51
2. Use of Audiovisual Vans
Vehicles                                                  1,316      1,316                     168         168
Special Equipment                                           220        220                      28          28
Technical Assistance                                         31         31                        4          4
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    1,575                  1,575          201                    201
Contingencies                                    149         86        235           19          11         30
Total - Use of Audiovisual Vans    1.724          1.653      3.377          220         211        431
3. Population Program Cell in Radio Bangladesh
Vehicles                                                    510        510                       65         65
Special Equipment                                           196        196                      25          25
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    1,865                  1,865          238                   238
Contingencies                                    235         39        274           30           5         35
Total - Population Program Cell
in Radio Bengladesh         2j100          745      2.845           268         95        363
4. Strengtheling oi the Department of Films
Vehicles                                                     78         78                       10         10
Special Eqipi 6t 6,503                                              6,503                      830        830
Techn;U-i Asolccance                                        157        157                      20          20
Incre-rntcl Recurrent Cost                      838         157        995          107         20        127
Con'-$,;ecches                                    71        368        439            9         47          56
otal - Strengthening of the
Department of Films             909      7.263      8.172           116        927      1.043



a 2%1=22
?age 4
TK (O00'a)                         USS (000's)
1ocal     Foreign   Total         Bccal    Forei,n    Total
5. Feature Writin - Bureau
Vehicles                                                   47         47                       6         6
Special Equipment                                          23         23                      3          3
Incremental Recurrent Cost                     682                  682           87                    87
Contingencies                                   86          *         86           11         *         11
Total - Feature Bureau                 768         70        838           98          9        107
6. Training of Public Relations Officer
Vehicles                                                   47         47                       6         6
Special Equipment                                          23         23                      3          3
Incremental Recurrent Cost                     204                   204           26                   26
Contingencies                                   15          *         15            2          *         2
Total - Training of Public Relations
Officer                        219         70       289           28          9         37
7. Internal Evaluation                                         *          *                       *          *
Special Equipment
Incremental Recurrent Cost                     407                  407            52                   52
Contingencies                                    8                     8            1                    1
Total - Internal Evaluation            415          *        415           53          *         53
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF INFORMATION
AND BROADCOASTING            1.20933                              80416281           2 085
H.  MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION PIANlNING
(Health Division)
1. Model Clinics
Vehicles                                                  306        306                     39         39
Special Equipment                                         698        698                     89         89
Incremental Recurrent Cost                   3,165                 3,165          404                  404
Contingencies                                  305         55        360           39          7        46
Total - Model Clinics                3.470      1.059      4.529          443        135        578
2. Training Schools
Vehicles                                                1,019      1,019                     130       130
Special Equipment                                       1,120      1,120                     143       143
Contingencies                                             117        117                      15        15
Total - Training Schools                        2,256      2.256                     288        288
3. Thana Health complexes
Vehicles                                                1,316      1,316                     168        168
Special Equipment                                       1,403      1,403                     179        179
Contingencies                                             149        149                      19         19
Total - Thana Health Complexes                  2,868      2 868                     366        366
4. Family Welfare Workers
Incremental Recurrent Cost                  21,286               21,286         2,717                2,717
Contingencies                                2.319                 2,319          296                  296
Total - Family Welfare Workers    23                      23,605        3.013                 3,013
5. Use of Motivation Kits
Vehicles                                                  149        149                      19         19
Special Equipment                                         298        298                      38         38
Contingencies                                              46         46                       6          6
Total - Use of Motivation Kits                    493        493                      63         63
6. Service Statistics System
Vehicles                                                   86         86                      11         11
Special Equipment                                         376        376                      48        48
Technical Assistance                                      376        376                      48         48
Incremental Recurrent Cost                   1,575                 1,575          201                  201
Contingencies                                  110         31        141           14          4         18
Total - Service Statistics System  1.685          869      2.554          215        111        326
7. Study on Building Utilization
Technical Assistance                                      626       626                       80         80
Incremental Recurrent Cost                     s41                 - .41          120                   120
Total - Sutdy on Building                                                                       _
Utilization                   941        626     1,567           120         80       200
8. Internal Evaluation
Incremental Recurrent Cost                     618                   618           79                    79
Total - Internal Evaluation             618                  618           79                    79
TOTAL - MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
FAMILY PLANNING             30,319      8,171    3L0            3.87       1fl4 



A.IEX 22
page 75
TX (000's)                      US$ (000's)
Local     Foreign   Total        Local    Foreign    Total
I. BANGLADESH INSTITUTE OF DEVELOPMENT STUDIES
1. Fertility Study
Vehicles                                                267       267                     34         34
Special Equipment                                        31        31                      4         4;
Technical Assistance                                  1,261     1,261                    161        161
Incremental Recurrent Cost                 1,536         31     1,567          196         4       200
Contingencies                                150         15       165           19         2        21
Total - Fertility Study             1,686     1,605      3.291         215        205       420
2. Seminar on Population Problems
Incremental Recurrent Cost                    55         39        94            7         5        12
Total - Seminar                        55        39         94           7          5        12
TOTAL - BANGLADESH INSTITUTE OF
DEVELOPMENT STUDIES         1741        644      3.385         222        210       432
J.  PRIVATE SECTCR AND INNOVATIVE ACTIVITIES       2,743               2,743          350                  350
TOTALS
Vehicles                                                  7,325    7,325                    935        935
Special Equipment                               313      18,631   18,944           40     2,378      2,418
Technical Assistance                                      5,464    5,464                    697        697
Incremental Recurrent Cost                   60,229         227   60,456        7,688-       29      7,717
Contingencies
Price                                      5,248       2,006    7,254          670       256        926
Unforeseen                                 6,837       3,308   10,145          873       422      1.295
TOTAL                             72,627     36,961  109,588        9,271      4,717    13,988



Ai0L =3 23
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION FROJECT
Table 1
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                                  US$ Thousands
1976
September, 1975                                   102
December, 1975                                    539
March, 1976                                       887
June, 1976                                      1,319
September, 1976                                 2, 480
December., 1976                                 2,817
March, 1977                                     3,269
June, 1977                                      4.,096
1978
September, 1977                                 4,837
December, 1977                                  5,870
March , 1978                                    7,134
June , 1978                                     8,605
1979
September, 1978                                10,130
December, 1978                                 11,525
March, 1979                                    12,816
June, 1979                                     13,792
1980
September, 1979                                14,341
December, 1979                                 1j,593
March, 1980                                    14,776
June, 1980                                     14,861
1981
September, 1980                                14;946
December, 1980                                 15,000



BAkIGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table
IMPLEMENTATION  - CONTINGENCIES  - EXPENDITURES
CONSTRUCTION COMPONENT
75/1  75/2  75/3  75/4  76/1  76/2  76/3  76/4  77/1  77/2  77/3  77/4  78/1  78/2  78/3  78/4  79/1  79/2  79/3  79/4  80/1  80/2
Preliminary Implemntation Schedule
Establish BPDUI, Appoint    IxxXo 0 ,,,,,,,                     ,,,, ..             . .....                       ,..,....
Consultants x00    ,    ........ .... ........... ....
Project Preparation            oxxx,,,,,,                                                3,,,,,3                  ,,,,,,                   3,2, " """'
Design                              xxxxx x cxx,       ,,,,,,, ,                                                  33.33 3,
Contract Documents                     S                        ,,,,,,XODXX,             ,,,,,XX  ,,. .  ,        ,, ........
Tender Period                         ,,,,,,,,          x  x PDa Pc , , ,,        .         ,  ,,,,,,            ,,,,,.. 
Construction                          ,,,,,,,,                                                                    *
Contingencies
%of base-line cost                  .5    .5   .5    .5       2      3     5     6      8    10    11   12    12    11       8     4      2   1.5     1     1    .5  (100)
X US$000    July 74                 83    83    83    83   333   500   833  1000  1334  1667  1834 2001  2001  18314  1334   669   333   250   167   167    83   16672
Physical contingencies                                       32    49    81    98   129   162   177  194   194   177   129    64    32    24    17    17          8    1584
Price contingencies
7473-Wh T77      .1 7
75/1-2  10%      .29                24
3     5%     .35                       29
4     4%     .40                             33
76/1     4%      .46                                   37
2     3%     .51                                         166
3     3%    ..55                                               269
4     3%     .60                                                      489
77/1     3%      .64                                                           626
2     3%     .69                                                                  900
3     3%     .75                                                                        1223
4     2%     .80                                                                              1436
78/1     3%      .85                                                                                   1665
2     3%     .91                                                                                          1782
3     2%     .95                                                                                                1705
4     3%    1.00                                                                                                       1306
79/1     3%    1.06                                                                                                              694
2     2%    1.10                                                                                                                    358   269   180   180    89   13460
Ex2enditures                       107   112   116   120   531   818  1403  1725  2363  3052  3447 3860  3977  3716  2769  1427   723   543   364   364   180   31716                  -
Note: College of Nursing and Family Welfare Visitors' Schools
have priority  in planning and execution.
xxxx  = Activities
,,,,  = Wet Season



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table
Implementation of Non-Construction Component
IMPLEMENTATION           75/1.  75/2  75/3 75/4  76/1  76/2  76/3  76/4  77/1  77/2  77/3  77/4  78/1  78/2         3  78]/
Appointment of PPOs        X
Training Abroad of PPOs          XXX
Or-der of Vehicles                     X         X
Expected Delivery of
Vehicles                                                  X          X
Order of Special
Equipment                             X         X
Expected Delivery of
Special Equipment                                        X             X
Start of Ooerations of
Pilot Schiemes in 1st
Half of Thanas                        X
Start of Operations of
Pilot Schemes in 2nd
Half of Thanas                                                  X
Evaluation
Base-line Survey                         X    XXX    X                                                                       4
Midterm  :.{valuation                                                   XXX  XXX    X
Terminal Evaluation                                                                                   X    XXX    X



BANGLADESh
POPULATION PROJECT
Table
Expenditure Schedule for Non-Construction Component
Expenditure         75/1      75/2      72L3      75/4      76/1      76/2      76/3      76/4      77/1      77/2     21/3      77/4      78/1      78/2      78L3      7814      79/1      2.i2     WTALL
Vehicles                                 215                  19       647                            54                                                                                                 935
Special Equipment                        485                 119    1,456                            358                                                                                               2,418
Technical
Assistance                    104        87       126       135        72        48        25        25        21                            52                                                         697
Incremental
Recurrent Cost                 48       360       464       464       442       404       400       400       380       603       603      602       597       468      378        378       378      7,367
Support to Private
Sector and Innova-
tive Activities                          29        29        29        29        29        29        29        29        29       29        30        30                                                350
Price
Contingencies 1/                 12       92        49        60       208        38        36        60        34        50        50        54       48        37       30         30        30        926
Physical
Contingencies                    16      127        67        83       285        52        49        93        46        68        68        74        67       56       48         48        48      1,995
TOTAL - Non-Construc-
tion Component                 180    1,395        735       909    3,139        571       539    1,027        510       750       750       812      742       561      458        456       456    13,988
Cumulative                     180    1,575    2,310    3,219    6,358    6,929    7,468    8,495    9,005    9,755   10,505   11,317   12,059   12,620  13,076    13,532   13,988
I/ Price contingencies are calculated according to Bank guidelines on the basis of following rate of price escalation:
1975         1976        1977       1978
Special equipment vehicles
and operating cost %               11.0          7.5         7.5         7.5
Salaries 7.                          5.5          3.5         3.5          3.5



NL   24
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Project Financing
1.        This annex describes the financial plan of the project and the
arrangements between various donors for the disbursement of funds.
I. Financing Plan
2.        IDA and six other donors are expected to participate in financing
the project. All donors except the Government of Australia and the Swedish
international Development Authority (SIDA) have expressed interest in fi-
nancing certain identifiable project components (parallel financing). The
Government of Australia will enter into joint financing arrangements with
IDA, and SIDA with the Government of Bangladesh. While the detailed financ-
ing plan is given in Appendix I, the amounts pledged and the type of
financing by individual donor are Riven below:
Local                Type of
Currency             Financing
(000)
Government of Australia                  A$2,000           Joint with IDA
CIDA                                    CN$2,000               Parallel
Federal Republic of Germany             DM$15,000                 "
NORAD                                   NKr 45,000                "
SIDA                                    SKr 15,000         Joint with GOB
ODM (United Kingdom)                    1 1,400                Parallel



Page v
II. Proposed Arrangement for Receipt and Disbursement of Donors Funds
3.        Some donors have expressed interest in having IDA coordinate, or
otherwise aid, in the disbursement of their funds, as well as provide super-
vision for the project. IDA's view is that such coordination is desirable,
and IDA is willing to offer its assistance in this regard consistent with
its own staff constraints. To the extent other donors wish to avail them-
selves of IDA's assistance in the disbursement process, IDA wii. administer
a Trust Fund consisting of such donor's contributions to the project.  In 
the case of parallel participation in the project, the donor would specify
the purpose for which these funds were to be spent, and IDA would ensure
that the funds were so spent. If a donor would select a joint participation,
IDA would at its discretion use the funds for the purpose of carrying out
the project. For this purpose each participating donor would open a bank
account in its Central Bank in the name of IDA and in the currency of the
donor. IDA would be entitled to make withdrawals by cable, draft, etc.
If IDA already has a Trust Fund account in a particular Central Bank, the
contribution would be deposited in that account and treated by IDA in its
records as a sub-account. A donor may elect to deposit its contribution
(i) in the form of an annual or more frequent lump sums; or (ii) at intervals
in amounts requested by IDA to meet requirements.



BANGIADESH
Bangladesh Population Project: Proposed Financing Plan
Federal                               IDA and      GOB
CIDA a     Republic of    NORAD c/    ODW d/    Australia   and          Total
Germany  f                                         SIDA
I.    Construction Co rnents
Nursing College                                                                                                   1,091       700      1,791
Model Faaily Planning Clinics                                                                                     1,132       725      1,857
FHV Training Schools                                                                     8,342       1,192                             9,534
Thana Health Coplexes                                                                                1,944        8,293     5,315    15,552
Union Health Subeenters                                        248                                                1.666     1,067      2.981
Subtotal - I                                              248                      8,342        3,136      12,182 e/  7,807  f 31,715
II. Non-Construction Components
PPS of the Planning Commission                                                                                      604                  604
Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives                                1,747                                                             91      1,838
Ministry of labor mnd Social Welfare                                      1,609                                                        1,609
Ministry of Agriculture                                                                                                       160        160
Ministry of Education                                                                                                         589        589
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting                                                                          2,376                2,376
Ministry of Health and Population Planning
Population Planning Division                                                                                   534                  534
Model Clinics                                                                                                  636                  636
Training Schools                                                       320                                                          320
Thana Health Complex                                                                                          405                   405
Family Welfare Workers                                               3,320                                                        3,320
Use of Motivation Kits                                                  70                                                           70
Service Statistics System                                              359                                                          359
Study of Building Utilization                                          220                                                          220
Internal Evaluation                                                     87                                                           87
Subtotal for MOHPP                                                   4,376                                   1,575                5,951
Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies                                                                         475                  475
Support to Private Sector and Innovative Activities                                                                 387                  387
Subtotal - II                                           1,747        5,985                                   5,.417      840    13,989
Total                                                   1,995        5,985          8,342       3,136       17,599     8,647    45,704
a/  CIDA's contribution of C$2.0 million will cover financing of 2 pilot schemes under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives and construction of two union health subcenters.
b/  Federal Republic of Germany's contribution of DM15.0 million will cover the training and salaries of FFWWs for which the Federal Republic
of Germany has expressed a wish to finance; also it will cover financing of vehicles, special equipment for FWV training schools;
motivation kits, a service statistics system, a building utilization study, internal evaluation of pilot schemes under the Ministry of Health
and Population Planning and pilot schemes under the Ministry of Iabor and Social Welfare.
c/  For construction of seven FWV training schools.                                                                                                 g1o
d/ For construction of one FWV training school and one thana health complex.
:e/ Representing foreign exchange components for the nursing college, model family planning clinics, seven thana health complexes and
22 union health subcenters.
f/ Representing local expenditures for the nursing college, model family planning clinics, seven thana health complexes and 22
union health subcenters.
Rev: 1/30/75



ANNEX 25
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 1
Incremental Recurring Cost per Year of the Project's
Physical Facilities
(in thousand)
Type of Facility                    NO of Units            TK             USo
Field Training Thana Health Complexes             8              5,393             688
FWV Training Schools                             8               3,277             418
Nursing College                                   1                434              55
Union Health Subcenter                           24              2,ooo             255
TOTAL                                                           11U104           1,416



POPUIA'ION Pko3jFT                   A8    2
Page 2
Table 2
Field Training Thana Health Centers
Basis of Estimation              Totalper Year
PERSO14NEL                                                               TKX    -uS$
Thana Health Center
Medical Officer                   TK 740 X 12 mos X 2 posts                     29267
Fairdly Planning officer          TK 660 X 12  " X 1                   7,200      919
Health Inspector                  TK 255 X 12  I X 2                   6,120      781
FWV                              TK 285 X 12      X 1                 3,1420     437
Asst. Health Inspector            TK 240 X 12  u X 3                   8,640    1,103
Multi-purpose (Basic) HW          TK 260 X 12  fT x 4                12,480    1,593
Laboratory Technician             TK 230 X 12  " X 2                   5,520      705
Compounder/Dresser                TK 230 X 12  "  X 2                  5,520      70(Y
Idwife                            TK 180 X 12      X 1                 2,160      276
C,lerk/Typist                     TK 230 X 12  ' X 1                  2,760       352
Driver                            TK 168 X 12      X 1                2,016       257
Fitter/Mistry                     TK 180 X 12      X 1                 2,160      276
Other Staff                       TK 130 X 12  " X 6                  9360    l19t
8S,116102b64
Thana Hospital
Medical Officer                   TK 740 X 12 mos X 2                17,760    2,267
X-Ray Technician                  TK 210 X 12  " X 1                   2,520      322
Staff Nurse                       TK 300 X 12  it X 5                18,000    2,298
Clerk Typist                      TK 230 X 12  " X 1                  2,760       352
Other Staff                       TK 130 X 12  " X 13                20,280  2_9589
61,320    7,827
Office of Thana Health
Administration
Thana Haealth Administration      TK1050 X 12 mos X 1                12,600    1,608
Upper Division Assistant          TK 315 X 12  H X 1                  3,780       482
Lower Division Assistant          TK 231 X 12  " X 1                  2,772       354
Peon                              TK  96 X 12  " X 1                  1,572       201
20,742    2,645
THC Field Training Block
Tutors                            TK 500 X 12  " X 3                 18,000    2,297
Attendants                        TK 130 X 12  " X 5                   7,800      996
25,800    3,293



TabIe 2 (Cont.)              AFg= 25
Page 3
MEDICAL AND SURGICAL SUPPLIES        Basis of Estimation             Total per Year
TK       US$
Thana Health Center                                                   43,900   5,603
Thana Hospital                    TK 100 X 25 patients Xin mos        30,000   3,829
CLOTHING AND BEDDING
Thana Hlealth Center              TK     X  6 beds                     1,000     128
Thana Hospital                    TK 167 X 25  "                       41,175     533
Field Training Block              TK 167 X 25  "                       4,175      533
DIET FOR IN-PATIENTS
Thana Health Center               TK 3 X  6 patients X 360 days        6,500      830
Thana Hospital                    TK 3 X 25    n1   X  "   tl         27,000   3,446
Field Training Block              TK 3 X 25           X  it           27,000   3,4h6
Vehicle Maintenance               TK 000 p.m. X 3 X 12 mos            36,000   4,595
Equipment and Furniture
Maintenance                     6 % of 171,250                      80,695  10,300
Special Equipment
Maintenance                     6 % of  22,375                      10,185   1,300
Building Maintenance              % % of 68h,875                     160,610  20,500
Office Supplies for Adm.                                               5,500      702
Films Chemicals for X-Ray                                              6,270      800
Miscellaneous                                                         38,150   4,869
TOTAL                                                                674,120  86,045



POPUTATION PROjCT                 ANNEX 25
Page 4
Table 3
LHV Training School
Basis of Estimation            Total per Year
PERSONNEL                                                            TK         US
Principal                           TK 530 X 12 mos X 1              6,360        811
Sister Tutors                       Tk 465 X 12 mos X 5             27,900      3,,561
Part-Time Lecturer                  TK 400 X 12  "  X 6             28,800      3,676
Housekeeper                         TK 260 X 12  "  X 2              6,240        796
Clerk/librarian                     TK 220 X 12  " X 2               5,280        674
Driver                              Tk 168 X 12  "X 2                6,48         771
Peons                               TK  96 x 12  " X 10             11,520      l,h70
Sub Total                                                           92,148    11,762
Clothing and Bedding                TK 167 X 60 students            10,020      1,279
Cost of Food                        TK 3 X 60 X 360 days            64,800      8,271
Maintenance of Vehicles             TK 1000 X 12 mos X 2 vehic a/  24.,000    3,063
Maintenance of Equipment
and Furniture                       6 % of cost $ 104,875           49,360      6,300
Building Maintenance                3 % of cost $ 419,437           98,715    12,600
Maintenance of Special
Equipment                          6 % of cost $ 143,000           67,400      8,603
i.iscellaneous                                                       3,130        400
TOTAL                                                              4o9,573    52,278
.J/ Each FWV training school has 2 vehicles; the nursing college has 4.



Table 4
Union Health Sub Center
Basis of Estimation          Total per Year
PERSONNEL                                                        TK     us$
Medical Officer                   TK 7140 X 12 mos X 1         17,760      2,267
Compounder/dresser                Tk 230 X 12  "                2,760        3t,2
FWV/FP Assistant                  TK 285 X 12  "                 3,420       437
Midwife                           TK 230 X 12  "                2,760        3 2
Other Staff                       TK 130 X 12     X 3           7,680        980
Sub Total                                                      34,380      4,388c
Medical and Surgical Supplies     TK 2,000 X 12 mos             24,O00     3,o63
Equipment and Furniture
Maintenance                      6 % of cost $ 10,675          4,,700       600
Building Maintenance              3 % of cost $ 42,679         10,190      1,300
Bedding Clothes for Hostel                                      5,320        679
and cost of food
Miscellaneous                                                   4,74o        605
TOTAL                                                          83,330    10,636



AI_n'  26
&ANGULDESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Demographic Impact of the Project
1.        This annex examines the number of acceptors needed to avert the
required number of births for achieving the fertility reduction as laid
down in the First Five-Year Plan of Bangladesh. It further shows (a) the
minimu number of acceptors that the program including the project can
recruit, and (b) the maximum number that can possily be recruited if the
program administration and facilities substantially improve mn the basis
of project experience. The latter reveals the extent to which the program
must be strengthened is the future mainly through additional resources to
achieve the plan objectives.
2.        Plan ObJectives:  The plan objectives implies achievement of a
net reproduction rate of 1 (two-child family) by the end of the century in
order to achieve a stationary population sometime within the next century.
The short-term goal of the plan is to reduce the birth rate from 47 per
thousand estimated at present to 43 in 1978. With the death rate declining
from 17 to 15 during the same,period, the rate of population growth is ex-
pected to decline to 2.8% from the present rate of 3.0% per annum.
Demographic Implications of Achievement of Plan Objectives
3.        It is estimated that if the Government, in fact, succeeds in
achieving its objectives the rate of growth of population would decline by
half (1.4%) by the turn of the century and the population would stabilize
at close to 200 million sometime in the second half of the next century.
The crude birth rate would be reduced to 22.3 in 1998 as compared to 47 at
present. The results of these projections are summarized in Table 1 at the
end of this annex.
4.        The above projections are based on the assumption of a decline
in total fertility from over six at present to 2.2 by the end of the cen-
tury. The rate of decline in total fertility is assumed to be slow at the
initial stages; accelerating in the latter part of the seventies and in the
eighties and then slowing down again due to the usual plateau effect in the
decline in fertility observed in many countries 1/. It is assumed that the
1/   The following are the rates of decline in fertility assumed for the
projections.
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1983   1993   2003
-000   -15   -0.25  -0.40  -0.55  -0.60  -0.40  -0.20



tANEX _26
Page 2
age specific fertility pattern as revealed from the age specific birth rate
estimates for 1973 will change over the period 1973-2000. The changes in
the pattern of age specific fertility are projected on the basis of experi-
ence of fertility decline in Korea and Singapore. The derived age specific
fertility rates are given below and the pattern is depicted in Chart 9096.
Age Group      1973     1978     1983      1993     2000
15-19      .2261    .1856    .1204    .0692    .0595
20-24      .3106    .2710    .1997    .1331    .1156
25-29      .3102    .2796    .2174    .1519    .1339
30-34      .2341    .2074    .1531    .1014    .0883
35-39      .1373    .1187    .0868    .0563    .0485
40-44      .0491    .0439    .0342    .0216    .0214
45-49      .0119    .0116    .0091    .00/6    .00b/
1).       The projected expectation of life at birth indicates an increase
from 4/.6 years for males in 19/3 to 61 years in 1998 and for females from
48 years to 62 years during the same period. 1/
Required Effort for Achieving the Objectives
6.        A simple method of calculation is adopted to estimate the number
of births that needs to be averted to achieve the plan objectives and the
required number of acceptors of various methods (Appendix I). We are fully
conscious of the limitations of the methodology adopted as well as of the
assumptions regarding continuation rates, composition of methods and age
composition of acceptors. Yet the present exercise has its usefulness in
indicating the broad magnitude of efforts required and possible achieve-
ments through the present facilities and programs. The number of births
to be averted during the first and the second plan periods and by the end
of the century are given below:
1/   a.   It is debatable if the female expectation of life is higher than
that of males at present. The life tables for 1956 for West
Bengal shows this pattern as well as the Hashims estimates for
Bangladesh for 1962.
b.   The expectation of life at birth for both sexes is expected to
increase by 0.6 years per annum between 1973-79, 0.7 years between
1979-93 and 0.5 years between 1993-2003.
c.   The computer model used for the projection employed the Coales
and Demeny Model Life Tables. For Bangladesh, Model West is
used.



IL~'NEe 2e
Page 3
Regqured Efforts for Achieving the Plan's Objectives
Required New Acceptors
Births to be        Required                       and Users as Percent of
Averted        New Acceptors   Required Users           Women 15-49
Cumu-         (000)           (000)
Annual lative
(000)   (000)
1974      -     -            168              -                     1.0
1975     21      21          492              62                    3.2
1976     77      98        1,510             213                    9.6
1977    242     340        2,428             670                   16.7
1978    471     811        3,294           1,245                   23.7
1983  1,672   6,917        6,788           4,354                  49.9
1993  3,735  34,999        7,280          11,956                   62.8
2000  4,791  65,524        5,896          16,216                   62.0
7.        To achieve the long-term objective of decline in fertility, over
65 million births will need to be averted by the end of the century. For
this purpose roughly over 60Z of the women in the reproductive ages must be
motivated as family planning acceptors. This will require a gigantic ef-
fort on the part of the Government as the percentage of women practicing
family planning is very small at present. The capacity of the program to
achieve the desired results is examined in the next section.
Feasible Achievements by the Program
8.        The number of family planning acceptors that the program (includ-
ing the project) can achieve by the end of the century is based on two dif-
ferent assumptions: (a) the minimum number of acceptors that can be re-
cruited through the program without substantial improvements in the use of
resources through administration improvements by the end of the century,
and (b) the maximum number that can be achieved by the program with existing
resources if administration and operations improve substantially. The
number of acceptors is estimated under the maximum assumption on the basis
of reasonable targets that can be achieved through various program facilities
such as health and family planning services, and information and education
programs with continuous expected improvement in administration and organi-
zation. The minimum targets assume that performance at the existing level
of efficiency would be continuous. (See Tables 2 and 3 for the underlying
targets.)
Maximum Assumptions
9.   a.   The number of thana health complexes (with three subcenters)
would increase from 160 in 1973 to 356 by 1978. The existing
100 MCH centers will continue to function. The number of new
acceptors per facility (including the FFWWs) will increase
from 70 in 1975 to more than 800 in 1998.



Page 4
b.   The number of new acceptors from the model clinics is
expected to increase from 3,000 per year in 1983 to
6,000 new acceptors per year in 1998.
c.   All pilot schemes started in 61 thanas in the project
will continue in the program until 1998. The average
number of acceptors recruited will increase two to three
times by the end of the century from the level obtained
in the project period.
Minimum Assumptions
10.  a.   The thana health complex establishment would be the
same as under the maximum assumptions, but the number
of new acceptors would increase from about 50 in 1975
to 300 in 1983 (including FFWWs) and would remain at
that level until 1998.
b.   The number of new acceptors from model clinics would
remain at 3,000 from 1983 to 1998.
c.   The pilot scheme coverage will be the same as in the
maximum assumption but the number of new acceptors
remain constant.
11.       It is estimated that, at best, the program with existing I .sources
can recruit a sufficient number of acceptors that would result in a'-arting
about 23 million births by the end of the century. This would be only one-
third of the required number of 65 million births that needs to be zverted
by the end of the century to achieve a net reproduction rate of 1. If the
program does not improve, the number of births averted would be only 7 mil-
lion or 11% of the required number. It is obvious that the program Adthout
substantial improvement in organization and administration and addititonal
resources will not be able to achieve the desired reduction in fertiLity
in either the short or the long run. Even during the Five-Year PlaL period
(1973-78), the program can at best avert only one-fifth to one-third of the
required number of births (less than 1 million) to be averted. The proj-
ect's contribution is estimated on a pro rata basis according to the provi-
sion of resources by the project for different program components, and the
contribution of these components in achieving the program targets. The
project in all would avert about 1.3 million births by the end of t1;! cen-
tury. Of course, because of its short life the maximum contributior of the
project would be reached in 1978 when it will help in averting 45-5''. of
the total births that the program would avert. The data are given in the
following table:



'AiU    26
?age 5
Births to be Averted
by the Program
Maxium       minimum
x of              % of       Births
Plan              Plan       Averted      Project's Contribution as Per-
Require-         Require-   through      cent of Program's Contribution
Year  Total   ment      Total    ment    the Project        Maximum          Minimum
000               000
1975      -      -         -        _          _
1976      32    32         22       ZZ         10              31               45
1977      91    27         71       z1         36              40               51
1978     169    a1        144       18         80              47               55
1983   1,696    25        921       13        297              18               32
1993  10,465    30      4,275       12        744               7               17
2000  23,379    36      7,152       11      1,290               6               18
Ways of Achieving Desired Reduction in Fertility
12.       As discussed above, the maximum feasible achievement of the exist-
ing program would be to contribute only one-third of the desired reduction
in fertility. These estimates assume the highest possible targets of re-
cruiting acceptors from the thana health complexes and from the 61 thanas
covered by the pilot schemes. The only way to achieve the remaining acceptors
needed to reach the fertility reduction objective would be to extend the
demand-creating activities on the base of the project to the rest of the
thanas and further extend the health and family planning facilities. The
extension of demand-creating activities integrated with development programs
are likely to have cumulative effects. Similar would be the position with
respect to further extension of family planning services that would be a
part of maternal and child health services. The latter would help in the
reduction of infant mortality and, therefore, in further stimulating the
attitude in favor of lower fertility. However, central to the real success
of the program in addition to the right strategy is the efficient organiza-
tion and administration needed to implement it, coupled with a strong poli-
tical commitment.



B1ANGIADESH
POPUIATICl PROJECT
Table 1
Ban"Ades Population ProJections, 19L3-22J
YEAR                        1973       1978   _1983           1988         1993          1998          2003
Total Population *
(July 1)                75,106     87,243     98,298     108,318       117,846       127,030      136,017      188,492
Males*              38,537     44s749      5o.457      55,498       60,136        64,698       ,69,247      96,460
Females*            36,569     42,447     47o841       52,604       56,99o        61,308        65,620      92,032
Crude Birth Rate
(Per Thousand Pop.)      47,0       42.9       32,7         27.5         23.5          22.3          20.5         1-65
Crude Death Rate
(Per Thousand Pop.)      17.0       15.2       12.1        10.1           8e7           8.1          7,6          11-7
Growth Rate (PCTe)          3.00       2.77        2.06        1.74         1.48           1.42        128          0.2J
Total Fertility Rate       6.400      5.575       4.090       3.334        2.718          2.457        2.221        2e221.
Iife Expectancy at Birth
(in years)
Male                 47.60      50.20       53-20       56.20        59.20          61.40        63.40        72.60
Female               480o0      50o60       53.60       56.60        59e60          61,8o        63.80        73.00
* In thousands.
0 i



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 2
Total and Average Number of Acceptors Recruited by the Program
Facilities and the Project's Contribution (M.lnimum Estimate)
Total
Health Centers                      1975      1976     1977      1978     1983    1988       19        1998    A22wto.sw
Maternal and Child Health
Center                             100       100      100       100      100       100      100       100
Thana Health Center                   220      261      306       356       356      356      356       356
Union Health Center                   210      300      450       600    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
TOTAL                                 53O      661       856    1,056    2,o56    2,056    2,o056    2,056
Average Number of Acceptors            50       5o        50       5o       30C/    300       300      300    129572s550
recruited per Health Center
Project's Contribution (in %)          -             __ __                  10.0     17.3      20.8     22.8        17.1
Model Clinics
Number of Clinics                      _4                                              4         4        4
Average Number of Acceptors
Recrui &ed                           --       --                       3,000    3,000    3.,000    3,000         252,000
Project's Contribution                 --       --    .-_. 00                        50.0      50.0     50.o        57.1
Thana Health Complexes (TIICe)
Number of THCs                         --       --        --       --         8        8         8        8
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                                _                                500      50o       500      500         84,ooo
Project's Contribution                 --       -         --       --       50.0     50.0      50.0     50.0        o0,o
Family Welfare Workers (FqWds )
Number oP Fls                       2,4o00    3,000    4,500    7,500       -         - oh
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                           4o        4o        4o       40       --       __         __       __        696,ooo
Project's Contribution (in %)         25o0    4o.o       60o0     49.3    4- --                 -         -          7.1.
i  Acceptors recruited by the FWWs after 1978 are included in the number of acceptors recruited by the Health Centers.



Total
Use of Mbbile Vans                  197.     1976     1977     1978      1983     1988     1993     1998    ACczeto.rs
Number of Villages Visited           500      950      950       950      90      950      950       90
Average Number of Acceptors
per Village                          5        5        5         5        5        5        5         5       2165 00
Projectts Contribution (in %)        100.0   0         100.0                          100.0  50.0  5  --  -     2406
Use of Model FaYmers and
Coo2. Managers
Number of Villages                 1,000    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,90G0   1,900    1,900    1,900
Average Number of Acceptors
per Village                         34       34       34        34       34       34       34        34    1,5616,800
Project's Contribution (in %)        100.0    100.0    100.0    0.0      50.0      --                          2h4.6
Use of Women's Functional literacy
Program
Number of Villages                   100      200      200       200      200      200      200       200
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited per Village               8         8        8        8         8        8        8        8        39,20C
Project's Contribution (in %)        100.0    100.0    100.0    0.0      50.0      --      --         --       2h45
Useof  griultural Etnsion
Workers
Number of Villages                 1,000    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                           12       12       12        12       12       12       12        12      592200
Project's Contribution               100.0    100.0    100.0    50oo      50.0      --        - -              2 h.6
Use of Motherts Clubs
Number of Mother's Clubs             400      760      760       760      760      760      760       760                  a
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                           4         4        4        4         4        4        4         h       73,600
Project's Contribution               100.0    100.0    100.0    50.0      0.0      --       --        --       26



Total
Use of W4omen's Rehabilitation     1975      1976     1977     1978     1983      1988     1993     1998          tor
Program
Number of Trainees under the
Program                           640    4,880    4,,880   4,880   4.,880    4,880    4,880    L,,88o
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited per 100 Trainees         25        25       25       25       25        25       25       25         29,000
Project's Contribution              100.0    100.0    100.0    50.0       50.0      --       --       --         23.L
Use of Labor Welfare Centers (LAC)
Number of LAC                         3         3        3        3        3         3        3        3
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruiter3 per Center           2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200          168,500
Projectts Contribution              100.0    100.0    100.0    50.0       50.0      --       --       --         25.9
Use of Motivation Kits
Number of F,MWls with Mot-vation
Kits                              150       150      150      150       150      150      150      150
*Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                           5                  5        5         5                 5         5        18,750
Project's Contribution              100.0    100.0    100.0    50.0       50.0      --       -         -         26,o
TOTAL Number of Acceptors
Recruited by the Program      180,200 -257,760  326,720  455,470  737,45o  737,h50  737,L4O  737,L5O    16,17h2l00
Project's TOTAL Contribution
(in percent)                   45.5      59.2     65.o     44.0     16.6      14.4     17.4    19.1            19,2
C!0



BANGLADESH
POPULATIOi' PiiOJECT
Table 3
Total andl Average Number of Acceptors Recruited by the Program
Facilities and the Project's Contribution (Maxinum Estimate)
Total
Healthl Centers                     1975     1976     1977      1978     1983     1988      1993     1995    A      s
Maternal and Child Welfare
Centers                           100       100      100      100       100      100       100      100
Thana Rural Health Centers           220      261      306       356      35,6     356       356      3`6
Union Health Sub-centers             210      300      4150      600    1,)500    1,300    1,500    1,500
TOTAL                                530      661       856    1,056    2,056    2,056    2,0o6    2,056
Average Number of Acceptors
recruited per Healthi Center          70      170       210      235      322       437      521      824    23,128,90
Project's Contribution (in I)         65.o     42.0    59.3       59.9      2.3      10.9     11.2      7,E       9.9
Model Clinic
Number of Clinics                                                                     4-4-               4 h
Avera7e number of' Acceptors
Recruited                           --        --      --         --   3,000    3,000    6,COO    6,o0o        344,000
Projectts Contribution (in  %) --                - 0.                      50.0      50.0    :5O.0       0.0       5O.O
Thana Health_Complexes (THCs)
Number of THCs                        --        --       --        --       8         8        8
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                           --        --      --         --     500      500    1,200    1,200        120,600
Projectts Contribution (in %)         __        __        _        _o..0              o.0     50.0      70.C 0.O
.Hd
o0 I



Ootal
L.,e O.L >q.obI;le fVans            1975      197O     1977      1978     1983      1932q    193       1998)   Accepo s
Number of VJillages Visited           500      950       950      950       950       5-0      9-70     9 0
Average NTumber of Acceptors
per Village                          12       12        12       12        37       37       112       112     1-1hL, 6c0
Project's Contribuition (in %)         40.0     40.0      ho.o     h.).o      6.7     __        __        --         20
UJse of Model Famers and
.oo. nagers
Number of Villages                 1,000    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900
Average Number of Acceptors
per Village                          84       84        84       84       252       252      8`3       853    17 , 694,0
Projectts Contribution (.in %)          o.0     40e,0       .        o.C      6.7      --       --         _         2e2
Use of Wome     Functional    era
Program
Number cf Villaies                    100      200       200      200       200       200      200       2 0
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited per Villao-e               20       20        20       20        60       6C       180      180        41C,00O
Project's Contribution (in %)          4O       ho        4o        4o        6.7      __       __        --         2,3
UJse of A ricultura1 Exctension
Workers
Nlumber of Villages                1,000    1,90(    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900    1,9C0
Average Number of Acceptors
Recrui                              30        30        30       30        90       90       180      132      ',  ,CCG
Project's contribution                 40.0     4o.o    Ito.o      ho.o       6.7      3_ __-                        3.r 0
Use of Mother's Clubs
Number of Mother's Clubs             hloo     760       760      760       760       760      760       76G0                  0
Average Number of Acceptors            10       10        10        1C       30        30                 9        78,600
R?ecruited
Projectts Contribution                4ho. o    4o.o      4o.o     ho. o      6,7      -                             2,3



Total
Use of Women's Rehabilitation        197M      1976      1977      1978      1983     198&   1993         1998          toi.;
Pro grami
Nlumber of Trainees under the
Program                             640    4,88o    4,880    4,880    4,880    4,880    4,880    h,880
Average NTumber of Acceptors
Recruited per 100 Trainees           25        50        [OC       50        75       75       100       100        89,222
Project's Contribution                40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      6.7        -        -         -
Use of Labor W-,elfare Centers(LAC)
Number of LAC                            3         3        3         3         3         3         3        3
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited per Center              5,500    5,500    5,500    5,500   16,500   16,500   49,500    9,E9CO    1,7^1,0CO
Projectts Contribution                  4000     h00       4000      40.0       6,7               --                   2.6
Use of Motivation YKts
Nlumber of FWWs wi'v  Xotivati-on
Ki ts                               150       1',0      150      1P0        150      150       1,0       1-0
Average Number of Acceptors
Recruited                            12        12        12        12        37       37       112       112      193,112
Project's Contribution                  40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0       6.7      --        --       -          2.5
TOTAL, ITumber of Acceptors
Recruited b,y the Prograr.          1B2       374       443       50B    1,458    1,694    3,436    4,C71           ,C,204
Project's TOTAL Contribution
(in percent)                         45.1      4o.6      47.9      39.4      8.4       6.3       3.7       3.?       6.2
Cb
0n
VQ
C



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Table 4
Assumed Continuation Ratio for Various Methods
vear 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       vear 6      Year 7      Year 8
From 1974-198-
IUD                   9.337        6.535        4.575       3.202        2,242        1.569        1.098       0.769
Sterilizations        4.650       4)415        4.192        3.980        3.778        3.587        3.405      3.232
Orali                12.347        4.318       1.510        0.527        0.181       0o.59         0.019      0.005
Condoms              10.666        3.197       o0956        0.284        0.083        0.023        0o004        --
TOTAL                37.000       18.465      11o233        7.993        6.284        5.238       4h.r26      4.006
From 1985-1994
IUD                  19.735       14.601      10.801        7.990        5.910        4.369        3.230       2,387
Sterilizations        9.305        8.837       8.393        7.971        7.570        7.189        6.827      6.483
Orals                13.230        6.614       3.306        1.671        o.825        o.4li        0.204     0100
Condoms              10.667        4.264       1.703        0.679        0.269        0.105       0o040        0.013
TOTAL                52.934       34.310      24.203       18.291       14I.574      12.074       10.321      8,983
From 1995-2000
IUD                  24,895       19.915      15.931       12.744       10.195        8.156        6.c23       ,2 I
Sterilizations       22.812       21.672       20.588      19.558       18.581       17.651       16,767     16e252
Orals                10e939        6.782.      4.203        2.605        1.615        1.0l        0.621       0,384
Condoms               8.715        4.269        2.092       1.02)4       0.501        0.246        0.121       0.060
TOTAL                67.361       52.633      42.81h       35.931       30.892       27.05o54     24.032      21.9114
CD 



ANNEX 26
Page 14
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
?'abl.C;
Assumed Age Structure of Acceptors t.y
Di fferent Metho(ds
TJnder 20     20 - 24       2' - 29       30- 34       35 - 39       40 +
TIUJD           2.6           16.6          23.4         30.1          15e7         6.6
Sterilization     -            5.1          32.5'        39.7          19.0         3.7
Oral.s          6.)          1l ,4          44.5         17e2          10.3         6e i)
Condoms        10.0           18,2          28.3         23.9          13.0         6o6
All
Methods         6.8           10.2          3'.G.        23.0          12,6         6.4



A.NNEX 2 6
A'ppendix I
PaLe l
BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
Methodology
1.        This appendix summarizes the method of calculating the births
to be averted and the required number of acceptors. It also gives the
assumptions used for such estimates.
Methodology
2.        The required number of births to be averted is taken as the
difference between births with constant fertility projections and births
with an assumed decline in fertility. The births averted are then multi-
plied by the reciprocal general fertility rate to arrive at the required
couple years of protection. Continuation rates of different methods derived
from the data available from similar countries are then applied to estimate
the number of acceptors.
Assumptions
3.        Contraceptive Mix:  The contraceptive mix, i.e., percentage of
acceptors by the use of methods, is assumed to change over the period 1974-
2000 as follows:
1974-84    1985-94    1995-2000
IUD                          15           30         35
Sterilization                  5          10         25
Orals                        40           30         20
Condoms                      40           30         20
The above assumptions are based on:
a.   The observation of recent trends indicating that
contraceptive use (1973-74) has shifted towards
oral contraceptives and is likely to remain so as long
as the family welfare worker makes the supply of
pills available.
b.   The establishment of commercial distribution of
condoms, as proposed by the Government, would
help in increasing their use.



A"N:EX 26
Appendix I
Page 2
c.   The inadequate availability of clinic facilities
at present in rural areas would limit the use of
IUDs and sterilization but would increase the use
later when the rural health infrastructure has
expanded.
4.        Continuation Rates:  The continuation rates for different methods
are assumed to improve over a period of time. The assumed continuation rates
for different methods are based on data available from different programs
at different levels of efficiency (Table 4).
Age Structure of Acceptors
5.        The age composition of users of individual methods generally differ.
On the basis of available data the assumed age composition of acceptors is
given in Table 5. The personal preference for different contraceptives at
various ages is assumed not to change. Hence, the age composition of acceptors
is held constant.



BANGLADESH
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING
EXISTING ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 1/
Ministe of H..lth
Nional Family Planing Board
Health Division                                                                                                     Faly Planning Division
i Joint Secretary   1|JitSceavo 
of HeaIth                                                                                                              F-ily Pl-mg
p                          Deputy Secretary          Deputy Secretary                                                                                      y
Adminitration                 General                  Development                                                                                   Fily Pl       g
|   Senvices, Curative   l   l    Services, Preventive   l     |    Director of Hea th Services   |             [    Director, Natiocal
-  Family Pl-dtrl-g B.o.r
District FP Officer t1)
District Technical Officer (1)
Lrdy Dpctor 11-4, U,b. Clinic)                                                                                      E__- -g-Inectrn  Tramningtioes
st.tistiD                                                                                                            a i   &                         t   P
Thane FP Officer (ii                                 | nspection          Specia         Statistics   |   Reaarch  |     Evauaton         Training |           i
Lady F:P Vi.tor '(1)
Th... FP A"siv-t ll)
World Bank--8452(F
1/ Effective as ot Npvember 1973



GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF
THE POPULATION PLANNiNG PROGRAM
POLICY  FORMULATION                                                           Populaton Councl
1. Prime Minister chairman
2. Minister of Health and Populat-on Planning, Dep Chairman
3. Minister of Local Go-onrment, Rural DeveloPment and CooPeratines
4. Minister of Agricolture
5. Minister of Educativn
6. Minister of Information and Broadcanting
7. Minister of Labor and Social Welfare
8. Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission
9. Representatine of Opposition Party
10. Representative of Press
PLANNING                                                               Population Planning DvI-ion
AND
COORDINATION                                                              1. Iaformation, Education and Communication Ueit
2. Research and Enaluation Unit
3. Demographic Unit
4. Training Unit
Central Coordination Committee
1. Minister of Health and Popolation Planning, Chairman
2. Secretary of PoPalatian Planning Dioision IMember Sect.)
3. Secretary, Ministry of Health and Populatioe Planning IHealth Dinision)
4. Secretary, Ministry of Local Government,Rural Development and Cooperatines
5. Secretary, Mienstrp of Educaton
6, Secretay, Ministry of Agrinalture
7. Secretary. Minintry of Information and Broadcasting
g  Secretary, Ministrv of Labor and Social Welfare
9. Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs
10. Secretary, Ministry of Finance
11. Director of Bangladesh Institate for DeveloPment Studies
12. Chief, Health and Population Planning Section of the Planning Commission
IMPLEMENTATION                    -  Delivery of Family Planning          1. Ministry of Health and Population Planning (Health Dinision)
CENTRAL LEVEL                        Services and Training
-  Research                             1. Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (Demographic)
2. Universities and Institutes lCommunication-Orsented)
3. Minister of Health and Popalation Planning IPPD) IProgram-Oriented)
-  Evaluation                          1. Evaluation Section of Ministries
2. Census Otfice and Bureau of Statistics
3. Popalation Planning Division
4. Health and Population Planning Division
-  Information., Education,            1. Ministry of Health and Population Planning
and Motnation                       2. Ministry of Local Government, Rural Denelopment and Cooperatives
3. MinistrV of Agricalture
4. Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
5. Ministry of Information and Broadacsting
6. Ministrp of Education
IMPLEMENTATION                                                            District Coordination Committee
DISTRICT LEVEL
-  Coordination                        1. Chairman, District Board
2. Chief Medical Officer of Health
3. District Education Officer
4. Project Director, Integrated Rar. Dev. Progr.
5. District Agr Eotension Officer
6. Health Educotion Officer
7. Social Welfare Organizer
8. District Public Relations Officer
9. District Family Planning Officer IMember Secretarv)
-  Delivery of Sernices                1. District Medical Officer of Health
2. District Family Planning Officer
-  Evaluation                          1. Ad Hoc Evalujtion Field Staff
-Information, Education,             1. District Officers of Ministmes         Non 3-8 listed above
and Motivation
IMPLEMENTATION                                                            Thana Coordination Commintte
THANA LEVEL
- Coordination                         1. Chairman, Thana Board
2. Thana Health Administrator
3. Thana Education Officer
4. Project Officer Ilntegrated R-r. Dev. Prog.)
5. Agricultare Extension Officer
6. Circle Officer IDeveloPmentl
7. Tha.a Family Plannmg Officer IMember Secretary)
-  Delivery of Services                 1. Thana Health Administrator
2. Thana Familv Planning Officer
-  Enaluation                           1. Ad Hon Enaluation Staff
-  Information, Education,             1. Thana Officers of Ministries           Nos 3-5 listed above
and Motination



BANGLADESH
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION PLANNING'
Dnptv         Deputy                 ~~~~P-jc Oce-t,                                                                                                                         -
SrCMa,         Scesas                     Setcetacy                 |aa  -oathas 
Plalnc ~  ~     C.OffiSce
Th_na H-arth .nd
FP Adm,i,tae
Th.-
Fa,yptaHong Oftn
Fan ,,. efr   ett
~~~~~~~~~~~~~cn 
Sollv Secren  l                      l~~~~Fan,, Wiellte Velth  o                                                                                        |DesXrC.l.u  S 
ry    |                     ii      51v:ee5       1                                1   JolHealth Assista_ts
Fwjl  Wlitrt Weet
Officyt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  Heih.Elun  9d3& 



BANGLADESH
POPULATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOR THE PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
| NPC      l
,~~~~~~~~~~~                                           ii
STUBDY                                                                      CCC
GROUPS                               -r
X    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                          IH                               I __                     I.
i   I               I    i    i                                         i ~                    ~~~                                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  i .I
r~~~~~                                -
SHl~~~~~~~  I's                                             I I                                    I ii                                                                  SgCt
PCC      PLANNING COMMISSION           MOIB     MINISTRY OF INFORMATION               _   _    :       LINE OP COMMAND
CCC      CENTRAL COORDINATING                   AND BROADCASTING
COMMITTEE                     ED       BUILDING DIRECTORATE                ...............
MOWUD   MINISTRY OF WORKS              BPDU     BUILDING PLANNING                                      LINES OF COORDINATION
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                  AND DESIGN UNIT
MOHPP   MINISTRY OP HEALTH             FF0      POPULATION  PLANNING
AND 'COM LATION PlD BJUING             OFFICER                                               WORKING RELATIONSHIP
MOLGDD  MINISTRY OF LOCAL              PFO      PROJECT FINANCE OFFICER
GOVERNMENT, RURAL             BIDS     BANGLADESH INSTITUTE FOR
DEVFLOPMENT AND COOPERATIVES           DEVELOPMENT STUDIES                                    REPORTING
NPC      NATIONAL POPULATION COUNCIL,
MOLSW    MINISTRY OF LABOR
AND SOCIAL WELFARE            pp5      POPULATION PLANNING SECTION
MOA      MINISTRY OF                            (PLANNING COMMISSION)
AGRICULTURE                   PPD      POPULATION PLANNING DIVISION
MOE      MINISTRY OF
EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                          Vo.ld 8., k- 9q4bI



BANGLADESH
EXISTING TRAINING PROGRAM FOR NURSING AND MIDWIFERY PERSONNEL
(Years of General Education)
0                  8                   9                  10                 11                  12                 13                  14                  15
Midwife
(18 months)
Lady Family Planning Visitor  L      Z|
(15 months)
Family Welfare Visitor
TU
(18 months)
.n
Staff Nurse
co                                                                                   (36 months)
Nurse Midwife
(Sister)
(12 months)
Nursing College
(Matron)
(24 months)
World Bank-8949(R)



BANGLADESH
AGE SPECIFIC FERTILITY RATES FOR SELECTED YEARS
1973 - 2000
ASFR
320                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ _
1973
280               1
_~~~~*S
240
*      ~~~1983
160
1993 *0
15-19  20~~-2     252         03         5-954                 5
2000    *ok~
120           o-~-----
80                                                  S
/
40 
15-19     20-24      25-29      30-34      35-39      40-.-44    45-49
AGE GROUP
World Bank-9096






4' -  '   ;           :           90' :   ':0   0               BANGLADESH                                92
TA 4     I N C,       A POPULATION PROJECT LOCATIONS
s   .       t    X <a 1 FS G J D I A
fSCT           1 A>~k  hkS-gAo ) <,J   K   C'      D                                               + *TPHYSICAL FACLITIES
|I                                                        IA- ->;   ;                                       ,> 05 SIA ISULTI-COpVfCO ThN EREt UALTA 5UE-CENTEflS
PILOT SCHEME THANAS.
i 1/ .h<&k4( j ' * r oP rEAT;T0Ich                                                           I t EIEC11 RRLOCNICICANCT JCTONAL LRCIT 1211 NAlC SING FE MOONL FATNkERS TNT STOSEECECS
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                    II. A     A l   I  - T   I   0T 0   }1   I o20 2 II   1 , -   I s R CL- 5  AI N  K IT   FO AI  EFRWOK5
\  >,  9  C  <                                         "   {.} WOM5 lt VOCf ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1.I-AL TqAl N
19I TA C        ACNIASC  -X
2b'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
N                                                                                                          LHET~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C CTCCEC  RCT
i\ S,~~~~~~~~~~I   CAO(                                                        IN 0055C COG "'C"-L OCSN
'1 _           CT>~ H I                                                                            .-ABC7,     /Ben       TI   
PAK1STAh;  r -gS251<r, b*tv                               9G9d5~ ~ ~~~~~T                                C2KSIBAOIOT R}    .'J  
SETh ICI N~ D-u>~ I~I~ AC>                       CAXURAtA  AC ._.lo o 75rTC                                        'T~I  A
\ .d 2' A 10 2  30 *0 59   tA   ,                                               A t 21-h
I N    A~~~~CA CC C:
TACL ,           K)omele.,                                    t.k
AK J w5RC ANKA  20   1 {, .z, ;;.M.r.   P                     P2'        \ 9A>
~~  TA> ~      I
r                7, BHUTAI)         A      TAICJNMK                     ,>CL                        IL
N   D  I A                                                  -  -  - DistliA  I  17'l-d ICT  I
T~RA                                                         -dCi-
/BANGLADESH                         BaBBeRMa
FSCNSECESt  K  -'  ITC~~~~~~~~~~~~~01EI0 0n-C5
~~~~~- v ?K>ESIST  SN.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
'W   '-OCTEACI  -C                           ~~~~~~~~~~0 00
S  -'i~~~~  (                                                 ROQAC ~~~~~TOeE  TTTEt~~~~~~CTIITT IETOE all STC,5E~~~~~~~~~
>                             OICETO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



