CIRCULATING COPY
FILE COPY                         T&SWWn REPORTS DESK
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1568-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
. EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
February 13, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS I
(As of November 30, 1974)
Currency Unit            Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
US$1.00             =    Tk. 7.90
Tk. 1.00            =    US$0.126
Tk. 1 million            US$126,000
GLOSSARY
aman      -    rice planted before the monsoon and
harvested in November or December
aus       -    rice planted in March and harvested in
June or July
boro      -    winter rice planted in October or November
and harvested in March or April
thana     -    administrative unit below district
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
CIDA      -    Canadadian International Development Agency
FFW       -    Family Welfare Worker
FWV       -    Female Welfare Visitor
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOHFP     -    Ministry of Health and Family Planning
MOHPP     -    Ministry of Health and Population Planning
NFPB      -    National Family Planning Board
NORAD     -    Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODM       -    British Overseas Development Ministry
PPD       -    Population Planning Division
PPS       -    Health and Population Planning Section
SIDA      -    Swedish International Development Authority
UNFPA     -    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Ends June 30
The Taka is officially valued at 18.9677 to the pound sterling.   The
pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and as a consequence the
Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used in
preparing the data for the report is Tk. 7.83 to US$1,the rate pre-
vailing at the time of appraisal of this Project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent
of US$15 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance a population project.
The proposed project would also be financed by a grant of A$2.0 million
(currently equivalent to about US$2.6 million) from Australia, a grant of
Can$2.0 million (currently equivalent to about US$2.0 million) from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a grant of DM 15.0 million
(currently equivalent to about US$6.5 million) from the Federal Republic
of Germanyts Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), a grant of NKr 45.0 mil-
lion (currently equivalent to about US$8.9 million) from the Norwegian
Agency for International Development (NORAD), a grant of SKr 15.0 million
(currently equivalent to about US$3.8 million) from the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA) and a grant of L.1.4 million (currently equiv-
alent to about US$3.3 million) from the United Kingdom's Overseas Develop-
ment Ministry (ODM).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455b-BD, dated September 15.
1974) has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The Basic Report and
a follow-up mission in September 1974 delineated a number of critical areas
where the Government needed to take action in the short-rtn. These are
discussed in the ensuing paragraphs. The first meeting of the Aid Group for
Bangladesh in Paris on October 24 and 25, indicated that donors shared
the Bank's view of the need for the Government of Bangladesh to take action
in these areas. An economic updating mission is currently in the field.
It will assess the progress being made in response to the views expressed
by the Bank and at the Aid Group meeting. The mission's Report is expected
to be available for distribution to the Aid Group and the Executive
Directors in the first half of April, 1975.
Background
3.        The Basic Economic Report describes the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlines a course of action to maximize the country's
limited development prospects. The high ratio of population to natural
resources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weakness of the administrative and institutional framework lead the



Report to project a growth rate of GDP over the next five years of between
2 and 3.5% per year in real terms only, the variation within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid. This compares with an expected population growth of about 3% per year
so that, even under the most optimistic assumptions, per capita GDP - already
one of the lowest in the world - is not likely to rise by more than 0.5% per
year during the period ending in 1977/78.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately follow-
ing Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic Government, supported by
massive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastations of the
cyclone of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts
of food aid were distributed, refugees were resettled, vital port, road
and rail facilities were brought back into operation, a new constitution
was adopted, and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought
Sheik Mujibur Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming
parliamentary majority.
5.        But such achievements pale in the face of the problems which
remain to be solved. The country is desperately poor, with a per capita
income of only about US$70, and overcrowded, with more than 1,400 people
per square mile. Continued population growth puts ever-increasing strains
on a nation already lacking most basic resources. Bangladesh remains ex-
tremely vulnerable to the devastations of both drought and flood. External.
assistance has declined to a level considerably below the initial infusions
of aid. Stocks of raw materials and spare parts are very low, many staple
consumer items continue to be scarce or simply not available, and inflation-
ary pressures are a serious continuing problem. Law and order deteriorated
in both rural and urban areas during 1973 and early 1974. In March and
April 1974 there were civil disturbances in Dacca. The problem became severe
again late in 1974 and contributed to the Government's decision to declare
a State of Emergency in December. On January 25, 1975, the Constitution was
amended to provide for a presidential system of government with greater power
concentrated in the Office of the President. It was stated that one of the
reasons for the change was to be able to deal more effectively with the
law and order situation.
6.        With the attention of policy-makers focused on the immediate
short-term needs, especially on ensuring an adequate food supply, and on
the preparation of the First Five Year Plan, many fundamental policy decisions
concerning such issues as pricing of external resources and capital and the
widespread subsidies, on which realization of the Plan itself was based,
were not taken. Drought and other natural factors also undermined recovery
efforts, bringing 1972/73 per capita GDP down to 80-85% of 1969/70 levels.
Despite substantial increases in production during 1973/74, standards of
living are still lower now than in 1969/70.



7.        Even a healthy, well-managed economy would have been badly hurt by
the adverse shift in the terms of trade which Bangladesh experienced during
1973/74. For Bangladesh the impact has been severe. As discussed in more
detail in paragraph 14 below, while the average prices of Bangladesh's im-
ports rose by some 65%, the average price of exports rose by less than 6%
and export volumes did not reach projected levels, so that the gap between
foreign exchange expenditures and receipts widened rapidly. Early in the
summer of 1974, Bangladesh sought assistance from a number of donors to
ease this crisis and asked the Bank to form an Aid Group to raise addition-
al resources. The already critical balance of payments situation was made
far worse when floods of record levels struck the country in July and August
1974, inflicting widespread human misery, decreasing crop production and in-
creasing the need for food imports. At the Aid Group meeting held in Paris
on October 24 and 25, 1974, members gave indications of new aid they were
prepared to commit for 1974/75. While these commitments (see para 16 below)
were significant, disbursements from them, together with disbursements from
the existing pipelines, will not fully meet the needs of Bangladesh even in
terms of the "minimum" import program suggested by the Bank to the Aid Group
(see para 15 below). The Government is now considering the adjustments that
must be made in its 1974/75 import program.
8.        Bangladesh is thus in an extremely difficult situation.   While
import prices have risen much faster than export prices, Bangladesh, as the
paragraphs below indicate, remains dependent on substantial food imports
even in years of favorable weather. Meanwhile its volume of jute exports
has stagnated and may perhaps decline. As a consequence, the import-dependent
industrial sector is starved for raw materials and spare parts and must
operate well below capacity. During the October Aid Group meeting discussions
took place concerning the need for Government action to improve the farmgate
price of jute vis-a-vis rice, accelerate implementation of aid financed
projects and increase internal procurement of food for the ration system.
Progress is now being reviewed by the economic updating mission and its
report will be circulated in early April to the Executive Directors and
submitted to the members of the Aid Group as documentation for its next
meeting, now scheduled for early June 1975. The policy changes cited above
are critical to successful development in Bangladesh, but their adaptation
will not reduce the dependence for the foreseeable future on substantial
quantities of aid, especially program aid.
Agricultural Production
9.        The gravest problem confronting the Government has been, and is,
the food situation. The 1970/71 crops were poor and the crop of December
1971 was disrupted by the war. Large-scale foodgrain imports of about
1 million tons during the first six months of 1972 prevented famine. Im-
ports continued at record levels during 1972/73, but as the Table below



-4 -
indicates, drought reduced local production of rice, so that estimated per
capita foodgrain availabilities remained well below 1969/70 levels. This,
combined with internal transport difficulties, and smuggling of foodgrains
into India, led to a 50% rise in food prices over the year. Foodgrain pro-
duction in 1973/74 reached a near record of about 11.8 million tons, an
increase of about 18% over 1972/73 levels, due primarily to very favorable
weather and continued increases in the use of high-yielding varieties. Food-
grain production, however, was still substantially below the target of 12.6
million tons and even slightly below the record 1969/70 crop. In part the
production shortfall was due to severe shortages of fertilizer.
FOODGRAIN PRODUCTION, IMPORTS AND AVAILABILITY
1969/70    1972/73     1973/74
Production (mn. tons)                      11.9       10.0       11.8
Net available (mn. tons) /a                10.7        9.0       10.6
Imports (mn. tons)                          1.5        2.8        1.7
Total available (mn. tons)                 12.2       11.8       12.3
Total available per capita                 17.1       15.4       15.6
(oz. per day)
/a   Excluding seed, feed and waste; excludes changes in stocks,
for which accurate data are not available.
10.       In spite of the increase in foodgrain production in 1973/74, sub-
stantial foodgrain imports were required both because production was not
as great as anticipated and because the Government's domestic rice procure-
ment program had little success, leaving the public rationing system almost
entirely dependent on imported supplies. The failure of the domestic pro-
curement program was due to administrative inexperience, the late start in
procurement and the difficulties inherent in such a program. Buildup of
domestic stocks by farmers, hoarding by dealers and smuggling continued to
reduce the amounts available on the open market. As a result, the domestic
price of rice rose rapidly in the early months of 1974, from Tk. 87 per maund
(US$0.13 per lb.) in January to Tk. 130 per maund (US$0.20 per lb.) in April.
The Government, in response, placed orders for large amounts of foodgrain
(wheat) imports at prices some 90% higher than the previous year's. The
composition of available aid was such that much of these imports had to be
financed from the Government's own cash resources. When the Government
realized in, May 1974, the effect these ore'ers were having on its foreign
exchange situation, many orders were postponed. Food imports in 1973/74
amounted to about 1.7 million tons, significantly below 1972/73 imports,
but which resulted in drawing down much more of the nation's foreign
exchange than had been expected. With the flow of food imports cut down,
Government stocks were not built up and it appeared that substantial foodgrain
imports would be required in 1974/75 even before the floods began. It was



- 5--
expected that the floods would have at least two effects; first, a reduction
in the output of the Aus and Aman harvests by perhaps 0.9 -- 1.1 million tons
and, second, a rise in the offtake from the import dependent rationing
system, as food had to be provided to flood victims who normally would not
be under the rationing system. The Government launched a Special Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Program (SARP) to expand output of winter crops to
moderate the effects of the floods. It is still too early to assess the
impact of this program. However, tentative forecasts of the Aman crop
estimate the yield to be about 7 million tons of rice. This would be slightly
higher than last year's crop. The Government has also intensified its pro-
curement drive and taken punitive measures against hoarding and smuggling.
The pipeline of imports of foodgrain has also been restored to much higher
levels than in recent months. Rice prices have, therefore, in recent weeks
declined from the very high levels that obtained in the previous few months.
They had increased to over Tk. 200 per maund (US$0.31 per lb.) in early
August 1974, and to Tk. 360 per maund (US$0.56 per lb.) by October 1974,
but by early November they had declined to Tk. 280 per maund (US$0.43 per
lb.). However, prospects for averting a return to rising prices, and for
avoiding further food shortages and emergency food imports in the next few
months, will depend on the Anan crop and the success of the Government's
procurement efforts.
11.       The rapid increase in the price of rice over the past two and a
half years has increased the profitability of cultivating rice relative to
jute, Bangladesh's second most important crop and the source of about 85%
of its foreign exchange earnings. Consequently, farmers have shifted out
of jute into rice cultivation, bringing production of jute and similar
fibers in 1973/74 down to about 6.0 million bales, well below the 1972/73
level of 6.6 million bales. The relative price of jute continued to dete-
riorate throughout 1973/74, and as a consequence the 1974/75 jute crop is
expected to be on the order of only 4.0 - 4.5 million bales. Even if ex-
isting jute stocks (about 1.6 million bales) are used up, this means the
total volume of raw and processed jute exports will not increase in 1974/75
and may decrease substantially in 1975/76. To prevent a further reduction
in raw jute production in 1975/76, steps should be taken immediately to in-
crease the domestic jute procurement price. These steps should take place
at different stages of the production process and could entail actions such
as changes in the price paid by the mills to the wholesalers and in procure-
ment procedures. The Government is considering taking such steps and is
expected to act shortly. In the longer run more effective extension of
improved jute cultivation techniques and an intensive research effort will
be essential if jute is to become competitive with rice cultivation at homne
and synthetic substitutes abroad.
Industrial Production
12.       Many components of the industrial sector registered substantial
increases in output during 1973/74, due primarily to increased availability
of essential imported raw materials and spare parts and to reduced labor
unrest. Program lending by IDA and other donors was instrumental in making
additional imports available. Nevertheless, production for most industries
was well below 1973/74 targets and for many industries even below 1969/70



actual levels. Moreover, by the end of 1973/74 shortages of raw materials
and spare parts emerged again, bringing monthly production rates in many
industries below those achieved earlier in the year. With imports now
further constrained by the current balance of payments crisis and with
continuing inflation threatening to upset an uneasy peace with labor,
the outlook for the industrial sector is far from bright. The low level
of industrial output has been one of the major factors contributing to
high levels of inflation. The general cost of living indices for Dacca
and Narayanganj rose by 50% during 1972/73 and by 40% during 1973/74.
The First Five Year Plan and the 1974/75 Annual Plan
13.       The changes in Bangladesh's terms o)f trade in the past yeai      ;l
the effects of last year's floods have rendered the First Five Year Plan':;
financial and economic projections and development program almost com-
pletely out of date. The Five Year Plan, however, remains useful as an
indicator of broad policy options. Within this broad framework major
revisions will have to be made. The 1974/75 Annual Plan, prepared in
the midst of the emerging crisis, provides no specific guideline for re-
structuring the development program in the light of the dramatic change in
the terms of trade. Already, however, the implications of the past year are
clear: a much less ambitious development program (and hence rate of growtlh)
will require more resources, foreign and domestic, than projected for the
original, larger program. Foreign resources are not the only constraint.
Domestic resources have not been mobilized at anything like the levels
envisaged in the Five Year Plan, while rapid domestic price increases have
raised the requirements for domestic finance for both the current and develop-
ment budgets. As a result, substantial deficit financing (Tk. 1.8 billion as
opposed to the planned Tk. 0.2 billion) was required in 1973/74 merely to
achieve a level of development expenditures lower in current prices, and far
lower, in real terms, than originally projected. In fact, the level of
development expenditures in 1973/74 was some 28% below that of 1972/73 in
real terms. The budgetary deficit has in turn contributed to the nearly 20%
expansion in money supply during the year and further fueled domestic infla-
tion. The 1974/75 Budget indicates that real development expenditures in
1974/75 are unlikely to exceed 1973/74 levels.
Trade and Balance of Payments
14.       During 1973/74, the average cost of imports rose by about 65% over
that of the previous year, so that the import bill of US$920 million bought
less, in real terms, than the US$680 million spent on imports in the depressed
year of 1972/73. The volume of non-food imports, while greater than in 1972/
73, continued to be inadequate to lift industrial production back to 1969/70
levels. Export performance was also far from satisfactory. While export
prices began to rise in the latter part of the year, they did not rise as
fast as import prices and because most of Bangladesh's exports are shipped
on a deferred payment basis, their impact on earnings was postponed. More-
over, export volume did not improve substantially. As a result, the total
value of exports in 1973/74 amounted to only about US$318 million, in con-
trast to the target of US$400 million.



-7-
15.       As the gap between Bangladesh's imports and exports grew during
1973/74, reserves dropped sharply despite substantial short-term borrowings
and a drawing from the IMF. As the emerging foreign exchange crisis became
evident in May 1974, the Government sharply restricted imports which, while
easing the short-term crisis, implied lower levels of industrial production
in the near future as supplies of imported inputs dwindled. The outlook for
1974/75 is thus very precarious. A summary of the financing gap in the
balance of payments is given below. While ecports may increase to about
US$400 - US$410 million, due primarily to export price increases, a minimum
import program for 1974/75 would be about US$1,400 million. This import
program is based on a modest US$185 million for imports of capital goods
(primarily for aid-financed projects); food imports of 2.3 million tons
(about US$514 million, including the import requirements of SARP); and
other non-capital goods imports totalling about US$700 million (representing
an increase of less than 10% over the 1973/74 volume of such imports at
1974/75 prices). In addition, imports are likely to go up by a further
US$50 million, as a result of fertilizer needs consequent upon the explosion
at the Ghorasal fertilizer factory. As illustrated below, allowing for
deferred payments for 1973/74 imports (about US$38 million) and the maintenance
of the present very low levels of reserves (about US$60 million), the deficit
on current account (remaining to be financed by foreign assistance) amounr:s
to over US$1 billion.
ESTIMATED FINANCING GAP, 1974-75
(US$ Million)
1.   Imports                                 - 1,438 /a
2.   Projected Net Earnings                       418
3.   Deficit                                 - 1,020
4.   Additional Fertilizer                   -     50
5.   Gap                                      - 1,070
6.   Estimated Aid Disbursements                  922
7.   Uncovered Gap                                148
/a   Includes deferred payments of $38 million for
1973/74 imports.



-8-
External Assistance to Bangladesh
16.       It is clear that Bangladesh depends on a substantial increase in
aid merely to prevent the economy from retrogressing, let alone achieve any
significant growth. Roughly US$922 million of aid disbarsements could be
obtained in FY1975 from the pipeline existing on July 1, 1974 and from new
commitments so far made in 1974/75.   This includes a sum of Ja$61.8 mi1llioa
Bangladesh has obtained from the IMF oil facility. Bangladesh has not vet
reached agreement with the IMF on the terms and conditions of additional
credit tranches under the regular facilities. If an agreement were reached,
it could have access to about US$75 million.   The composition of the new
commitments and disbursements is, however, as important as their level; much
more finance is required for food and other commodities than for capital goods,
which are already well covered by a pipeline of project aid.   Wbile new pro-
ject aid is required, it will need to be restricted to projects of the very
highest priority. At the Aid Group meeting in Paris there was considerable
evidence that donors were fully seized of this problem and a number of dele-
gations emphasized that they would endeavor to structure tlheir aid to maximize
early disbursement.
17.       Less than a year ago, Bangladeshi's economic situati,'n justified
a sharply different view of aid priorities; then it appeared that comrno-
dity assistance would be an important but diminishing parc of the aid
package as an increasing portion of aid would be used to finance the develop-
ment projects outlined in the First Five Year Plan. But the events of the
past year have altered that view. The shift in Bangladesh's terms of trade,
combined with the effects of the flood, make necessary substantial increases
in food and other commodity aid merely to maintain last year's relatively
low level of both food consumption and non-food imports in real. terms. The
Bangladesh Government, shortly after the payments crisis emerged, indicated
to major donors its desire to shift the composition of aid at the present
time from project aid to commodity or program aid, and sorae doncrs have al-
ready responded to this request.   In an effort to raise the additional re-
sources it requires and to achieve better coordination of aid, the Government
in July 1974 took steps to establish an Aid Group of countries and institu-
tions which are interested in Bangladesh's development. The first meeting
of the Group was held in Faris on October 24 and 25, 1974.
18.       For the foreseeable future, program lending is likely to be a
major feature of development aid to Bangladesh.   At the same time, however, a
carefully selected group of priority projects needs to be impi2mented, in a
phasing consistent witlh available resources, which will reduce the country's
dependence on imports (e.g. by -increasing production of food ana fertilizer
and by reducing the rate of population growth) and pronuote exports. For this
approach to contribute to the long-term development of Bangladesh, it wili
be increasingly imporcant for the Government to adopt an appropriate policy
framework. The administrative system will have to deal more effectively with



the development tasks ahead. While the events of the past year have severely
disrupted planning efforts, in recent months the Government has taken a number
of difficult economic decisions. Interest rates were increased in June 1974,
with the central bank's lending rate rising from 5% to 8% and the commercial
banks' lending rate rising from a maximum of 10% to about 13%. New taxes
have been levied which the Government projects will increase revenues by 50%.
over 1973/74 levels. Steps have been taken to reduce subsidies, particularly
those for rationed food items, fertilizer and pesticides. A major change in
industrial policy has greatly increased the scope for the private sector by
raising the ceiling on private investment in industry from US$330,000 to
nearly US$4 million. The army has been posted on the borders to restrict
smuggling and an anti-corruption drive has led to the removal of a number of
officials. If Bangladesh is to survive its present difficulties without even
greater human tragedy than the past has witnessed, many more difficult steps
will have to be taken to bring the economy to grips with the realities of
the world economy and to increase the effectiveness of the administration.
Of particular importance will be efforts to improve the competitive position
of jute, to restrict the subsidized food distribution system and reduce its
dependence on imports, to mobilize domestic resources and to improve the
performance of the public sector enterprises. If appropriate action is taken
in such areas and if the world community responds to Bangladesh's needs with
adequate amounts of aid of the proper composition, then Bangladesh stands a
chance of passing *through the current situation and establishing the founda-
tions for future economic development.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.       After Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and the Association
in August 1972, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated initially
on reactivation of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under
credits to Pakistan before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such
credits in an aggregate amount of US$151.35 million (including US$44.1
million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan) have been made to Bangladesh.
The last reactivation credit (US$25.0 million for the Highway Project) was
signed on June 29, 1973. In addition, seven new credits have been made,
totalling US$218.6 million: US$50 million for the Reconstruction (First)
Imports Program Credit; US$7.5 million for the Cereal Seeds Project; US$4.0
million for the Technical Assistance Project; US$4.1 million for the Inland
Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$50.0 million for a (Second) Im-
ports Program Credit; US$20.0 million for a Second Telecommunications
Project; US$50.0 million for a (Third) Imports Program Credit; and US$33.0
million for the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project.



- 10 -
20.       Negotiations are underway between the Government of Bangladesh and
the various bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by
Bangladesh of a portion of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh
became independent. Until such negotiations are complete, it is not possible
to estimate precisely Bangladesh's total public indebtedness, or its total
debt service. With respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh has so far agreed
to accept liability as of July 1, 1974 for about US$92 million, about US$55
million to the Bank and US$37 million to IDA (based on July 1, 1974 exchange
rates). The Executive Directors approved a Consolidation Loan and Credit on
February 11, 1975. Discussion of the remaining amounts has been deferred to
a later date.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits made to
Bangladesh as of December 31, 1974, and notes on the status of execution of
ongoing projects. Bangladesh is not yet a member of IFC. Of the total of
IDA credits of US$336.95 million made to Bangladesh as of December 31, 1974
only US$160.7 million (including US$44.1 million for repayments of amounts
disbursed under some of the corresponding credits to Pakistan) had been
disbursed. Excluding disbursements under the three program credits, onlv
about US$19.5 million had been disbursed under project credits for ex-
penditures since independence. This poor performance is attributable to
a combination of factors including Government procedures for hiring con-
sultants and for awarding procurement and civil works contracts, and shortages
of construction materials such as cement. Various ways of improving this
situation are being discussed with the Government including improvement of
procurement procedures, a comprehensive study of the import control system,
and increasing the role of the Resident Mission in project supervision.
22.       As the analysis in paragraph 18 above indicates, increased prioritv
must be given to flexible, fast disbursing aid. Program lending must there-
fore remain a necessary feature of IDA assistance, and the amount should be
commensurate with Bangladesh's needs. Now that the Fourth Replenishment
Agreement has become effective, an amendment will be proposed, increasing
the amount of the Third Program Credit from US$50 million to US$75 million.
For the next several years the requirements of existing productive capacity
will remain high for the types of goods - spares, components and raw
materials - financed by IDA program credits. However, long-term improvement
in the Bangladesh economy can be expected only if sound policies, programs,
and development projects are pursued. Thus, projects of the highest priority
must also be supported. The Association recognizes the prime importance of
the agricultural sector and of efforts to close Bangladesh's food gap. The
Ashuganj Fertilizer Project and the forthcoming Barisal Irrigation Project
both support this critical goal. The proposed project supports another
sector, population planning, which must be accorded the highest priority.



- 11 -
23.       Other priority projects are at an advanced stage of preparation -
many of them in the agricultural sector. These include irrigation works
in the ?luhuri and Karnafuli river areas, Rural Training Project and a Rural
Development Project. The growth of other sectors, particularly as they provide
infrastructure for, or process or provide outlets for the products of the
rural economy, is also important. Several sector studies supported by the
Association - for example in small scale industry and transportation (also
assisted by the United Kingdom) - should help the Government and the Association
to develop a suitable pipeline of projects consonant with mutual assessments
of economic priorities. Further economic studies will be oriented to the
same goal. Finally, the Association has provided funds under the Technical
Assistance Credit to assist the government in preparing development projects
for financing by the Association and other lenders.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
24.       Population control is given a high priority in the country's first
Five-Year Plan. The Plan states that no "civilized measure would be too
drastic to keep the population of Bangladesh on the smaller side of 15
crores (150 million) for sheer ecological viability of the nation". This
sense of urgency for population control emanates from the slow improvements
in economic and social life experienced in the past. The high rate of growth
of population during the last two decades was one of the important factors
responsible for such slow growth. The rate of growth of population, slow
in the early part of the century, accelerated after the Second World War
largely because of a decline in the death rate. Thus, with little or no
change in fertility, a natural rate of population growth that was about
1.5% in the forties increased to 2% in the fifties and 3% in the sixties.
25.       During the fifties the rate of population growth exceeded the
rate of growth of GDP (at constant prices) resulting in a decline in real
per capita income. During the sixties, although the GDP growth rate was
twice as high as in the previous decade, 70% of the gains in national income
were offset by the further acceleration in the rate of population growth.
Per capita income, now estimated to be about US$70, has therefore hardly changed
over the past 25 years.
26.       Coupled with natural calamities and low agricultural output, the
high rate of population growth has pressed severely on the country's food
availability which is both inadequate and precarious. A chronic need for
food imports regularly puts a severe strain on the country's already weak
balance of payment position. The situation is likely to grow worse fairly
rapidly if the present high rate of population growth continues. The
Planning Commission has estimated a population of 74 million as of January
1973 and a natural rate of increase of 3% per annum. Even if fertility
could be cut almost in half by the year 2000, the population would still
exceed 160 million by then. On the basis of moderate assumptions on the



- 12 -
decline of fertility and optimistic assumptions on the increase of agri-
cultural production, the Basic Economic Report foresees the pos3ibility of
attaining food self sufficiency within 10-12 years. But in the long run,
the gap between demand and supply would emerge again even on optimistic
assumptions of increases in agricultural output, and the country would again
become dependent on food imports by the end of the century. Already meager
average arable land per rural family is threatened to be reduced substantially
even if urbanization proceeds at a rapid pace. The social and economic
problems of a growing urban population requiring huge investments in housing
and other infrastructure are obvious.
27.       A decline in fertility, no matter how rapid during the next several
decades, would hardly have any impact on labor supply by the end of the
century. At that time, the total labor supply is likely to have doubled
from its present level of 29 million, and unemployment rates are already
believed to be high and growing, although reliable figures are not available.
28.       Efforts to reduce the rate of population growth have taken place
during the last 15 years. A national family planning program started in
1960 under the Ministry of Health. Prior to that, family plannirLg had been
introduced by a voluntary organization in the early fifties. In 1965, a
major revamping of the national family planning program took place. The
program was taken out of the Ministry of Health and piaced under an organi-
zation called the Family Planning Board exclusively responsible for its
implementation. During the late sixties,the program was reported to have
achieved considerable success, but the statistics are questionable on
grounds of alleged over-reporting of sterilization cases (the family planning
method relied on heavily by the previous administration) due to the system of
incentives to clients and staff. However, an important legacy of the pro-
gram is the existence of fairly widespread awareness of the possibilities
of family planning in the country. This knowledge provides a valuable
base on which to build the new program.
29.       The disturbances in 1971 severely disrupted almost all aspects of
national life including the family planning program. Since independence,
however, the main activity in the population sector has been the search
for a new organizational and administrative structure. Pending the resolu-
tion of these issues the Family Planning Board, renamed the National Family
Planning Board (NFPB), was put under the the Ministry of Health, renamed the
Ministry of Health and Family Planning (MOHFP). An interministerial com-
mittee, also called the National Family Planning Board, was created in 1972
for policy making and program guidance; it has never met.
30.       The First Five-Year Plan discusses at considerable length the
proposed directions of population policy and general program organization.
The plan, implicitly, makes the now widely-recognized distinction between
"family planning" and "population plann'ng". The term family planning is
restricted to the delivery of contraceptive services and such information
and motivation work as health personnel themselves can do; its primary con-
cern is the supply side of the program and the provision of personnel serv-
ices. Population planning is a wider term; it stresses the need for disse-
minating to the public an understanding of population dvnamics and for



- 13 -
gaining recognition of the public and private benefits of population control.
It aims at changing social attitudes towards family-size norms and creating
widespread demand for family planning services. To this end, the Plan pro-
poses the introduction of population-control education and motivation in the
development programs of a number of different ministries. The population
policy as defined in the Plan is summarized below.
(a) The family planning program, largely in the sense
of delivery of services, will be integrated with
health services and the MOHFP will be responsible for it.
(b) The delivery of basic health and family planning services will
be done through home visiting in rural areas employing about
12,000 teams (male and female) of Family Welfare Workers -
one team for every 6,000 population. Further, the MOHFP
plans to establish one thana health complex and three
subcenters in all 356 rural thanas during the Five-Year
Plan period for the delivery of health and family
planning services (at present there are about 160 thana
health complexes and 186 subcenters).
(c) All ministries that maintain wide public contact will include
in their development programs family planning education to
motivate people toward a small family size.
(d) All voluntary organizations involved in family planning
will be given adequate encouragement and support.
(e) There should be strong disincentives after the second
child, abortion should be legalized and free of cost
and social measures for the emancipation of women should
be undertaken.
31.       To implement the policies described above, the Plan proposes a
number of new institutional arrangements and the Government has recently
taken some important steps in implementing some of these decisions. The Plan
suggests that a central unit, the Population Planning Division (PPD),be
established to coordinate the implementation of the multisectoral program and
to work closely with interministerial coordination committees which would also
be formed at all levels of program implementation - national, district and
thana. The PPD has now been established in the MOHFP and the MOHFP has
consequently been renamed Ministry of Health and Population Planning (MOHPP).
A Central Coordination Committee at the national level, one of the three
interministerial committees mentioned above, has also been established. The
plan also mentions the establishment of a high level National Population
Council (NPC), consisting of relevant ministers and other public leaders,
chaired by the Prime Minister (now, the President) and with the PPD providing
its secretariat. However, the NPC, which would formulate the country's



- 14 -
population policy, still needs to be established; its establishment is a
condition of credit effectiveness (paragraph 60).
32.       The MOHPP now has two Divisions: (i) the Health Division, responsi-
ble for the delivery of integrated health and family planning services and
(ii) the PPD, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the population pro-
grams of the different ministries involved in the population effort, and for
providing technical support to these ministries in programming and evaluating
their population programs. The NFPB is expected to be transferred to the PPD.
Within this new set-up, the existing Health and Family Planning Section
of the Planning Commission, now renamed Health and Population Planning
Section (PPS), will continue to be responsible for the external evaluation
of the population program activities, allocation of funds to the concerned
ministries on the basis of intrasectoral priorities and liaison with external
donors.
33.       The Plan objective is to reduce the natural rate of population
growth from 3 percent at present to 2.8 percent by 1978. The long-run goal
is to reduce the natural rate of population growth to 1.3 percent in the
next 25-30 years, in which case zero population growth would be achieved
late in the first half of the next century.
34.       To help Bangladesh implement its ambitious population program,
substantial amounts of foreign assistance are needed. Several foreign
donors are already actively assisting Bangladesh in its population effort.
The largest foreign assistance to the sector is being provided by the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID). In 1974, UNFPA signed a four-year
agreement with Bangladesh, providing grant assistance of US$10 million.
Among other components, UNFPA is financing salary support for Female Family
Welfare Workers, which coupled with those financed as part of the proposed
project, should help Bangladesh meet the Plan requirements in terms of these
workers. USAID, in 1972 and 1973, made US$6.5 million available for health
facilities, manpower retraining, medical equipment and contraceptive supplies.
USAID is likely to make another US$8-10 million directly available to the
program during the next three years. Several private agencies will also
make important financial and technical assistance contributions to the pro-
gram; these include the Ford Foundation in the field of research (US$300,000
for two years) mostly for the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies,
which would also be supported under the proposed project (paragraph 48).
These activities and the present project are complementary: for instance,
the contraceptive supplies provided by USAID would be distributed by the
Female Family Welfare Workers, a number of whom are being financed under
the UNFPA grant or would be supported under the proposed project. IDA has
maintained a very close contact with these agencies; in fact, the proposed
project was designed in consultation with them. For instance, a UNFPA
representative (joined by another from WHO) participated in the May-June 1973
appraisal mission, while IDA provided an expert to a UNFPA mission that also



- 15 -
visited Bangladesh in 1973. In January 1974, IDA participated in a meeting
on Bangladesh's population sector held at UNFPA headquarters in New York,
also attended by representatives of donors involved in the sector and a
representative from the Bangladesh Government. Close contact between IDA
and these agencies will have to continue in order to avoid duplication of
efforts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first operation in
the population field in Bangladesh. The credit was negotiated in Washington
in December 1974. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a team
led by Professor K. A. Khaleque, the head of the PPD. The Appraisal Report
(No. 543a-BD, dated February 3, 1975) on the proposed project is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Attached as Annex III is
a Development Credit and Project Summary.
Project Scope
36.      At present, the population planning program is barely functioning.
The Government's first task is to work out a feasible program, to organize
itself for carrying out this program, to secure financing, and to get the
program moving. The proposed project is intended to serve these objectives.
The difficulty of the task is reflected in the fact that it took a period of
18 months to work out the project content and organize the financing. This
required a major sector-review and project appraisal mission (May-June 1973)
four smaller project-preparation missions, and various rounds of meetings
with other potential donors. Project preparation and definition has been
carried as far as can reasonably be expected at this stage of development
of the Government's population program. The project is being proposed for
approval now, before it is fully worked out in all details, because of (a)
the importance of population planning in Bangladesh, and (b) hope that the
process of developing and implementing the proposed project, in conjunction
with a team of external donors, will elicit a stronger effort in population
planning from the Government. The project would require very close super-
vision and follow up which would have to be carried out by headquarters and
the Dacca Resident Mission (paragraph 52).
37.      The specific objectives of this project are (a) to create capacity
for training of health and family planning manpower to be used for the
future delivery of family-planning services (b) to help reactivate the
family planning program by expanding the delivery of services provided by
basic health and family planning workers and (c) to assist in the development
of educational and motivational activities aimed at changing social attitudes
towards family size norms.
38.      Training. A serious constraint on the expansion of health and
family planning services is the inadequate availability of intermediate level



- 16 -
health manpower to provide family planning services. Bangladesh is unique
in its adverse ratio of doctors to nurses, estimated at 8:1. The shortage
of such manpower is primarily the result of the limited number of nurse
tutors and inadequate training facilities. The main categories of paramedical
manpower used in Bangladesh are nurses (3 years of training), Female Welfare
Visitors (18 months of training) and Family Welfare Workers (3 months of
training). The last two categories of workers are expected to be much more
heavily involved in fertility-related activities as part of their hospital
duties. The Government has established 13 new schools for the training of
nurses. The project would assist the Government's manpower objective mainly
by providing for eight Female Welfare Visitor (FWV) training schools, and a
college of nursing for the training of tutors and supervisory nursing staff.
In addition, the project would include eight thana health complexes, each
with a 25 bed ward unit, a 25 student dormitory and staff housing; in
addition, three health subcenters for rural field training of medical and
paramedical staff would be linked to each complex. These health complexes
are intended to provide field training opportunities for the eight FWV train-
ing schools and for eight existing medical schools. At four of the eight
medical schools, a family planning clinic is added to give training to
medical students and doctors in contraceptive and other fertility-related
techniques.
39.       The expansion of thana health complexes is constrained not only by
limited trained manpower, but also by the heavy cost of construction of these
buildings and by the Government's past inability to plan and carry out cons-
truction activities under prevailing conditions. The possibility of further
reductions in construction costs would be examined by consultants to the
MOHPP under the project, to determine the most suitable and cost effective
ways of designing and building these facilities (Section 3.09 (d) of the
Development Credit Agreement - DCA). These methods would then be applied
on the eight field training thana health complexes included in the project.
To ensure efficient utilization of training facilities constructed as part
of the project, the Government would submit to IDA for its approval plans
for the maintenance, administration and services of these buildings (Section
4.02 of DCA). After the project buildings have been in operation for some
time, a building utilization study would be carried out to assess the intensity
of use, and adequacy of design, of these facilities (Sections 3.01 (b) (iii)
and 3.03 (f) and Schedule 5, Item 3 (a) and (b) of DCA).
40.       It is expected that the college of nursing will overcome the
shortage of tutors by 1983, when its major function would be shifted to the
training of Public Health Nurses. Increased staffing levels and expansion
of thana health complexes are expected to raise the annual need for FWV
graduates from 600 at present to 1,500 in 1979 and 2,500 in 1983. About 180
medical students and 60 FWVs are expected to receive field training from
the eight field training thana health complexes. Each of the model
clinics in the four medical colleges are expected to give training to 50
medical students and doctors each year.



- 17 -
41.       Delivery of Services.  So far, the new Family Welfare Workers (FWWs)
teams consist only of about 12,000 retrained male workers formerly used as
malaria control personnel. The project provides salary support and training
costs for 3,700 female FWWs. These workers will be authorized to distribute
contraceptives during their home visits. The Government has agreed that the
female FWWs would be required and enabled to spend at least half of their
working time on family motivation and service activities (Section 3.01 (b) (i)
of DCA). This is the project's only direct contribution to the delivery of
services. The training program (as well as its schedule for implementation)
of FWWs and FWVs will be agreed with the Association.   One of the purposes
of such a program is to make sure that these workers are properly trained
and once their training is completed, they are hired and provided adequate
incentives to remain in their jobs (Sections 3.14 (a) and (b) of DCA). The
functions of these workers would be evaluated, under the project, before further
expansion (Section 3.14 (c) of DCA).
42.       Management Study of MOHPP.   The project also supports the carrying
out of a comprehensive management study of MOHPP, which would include the
coordination of MOHPP staff with staff of other ministries at the field
level (Section 3.15 of DCA). Such a study is essential in light of the new
tasks now performed by MOHPP: (i) integration of health with family planning
services and (ii) the functions of PPD. In this respect, most recent in-
formation available indicates that the details of the integration of health
with family planning services must still be fully worked out and that, in fact,
there are some practical problems in fulfilling such integration which must
he overcome. As for the PPD, it is only st:arting to operate now, and it will
need guidance as to how best organize itself in order to carry out the
difficult task of coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the population
programs of the various ministries participating in the population planning
effort. The study is scheduled to be completed by December 1975 (Schedule 4
of DCA).
43.       Information, Education and Motivation.   A novel approach adopted
by the Government is to attempt to integrate family planning education
and motivation with other development programs. The project supports family
planning motivation and education elements of schemes dealing with (i)
raising the economic and social status of women and (ii) training village
leaders in charge of rural development programs in population matters. Nine
different schemes would get project support. These would be implemented
by six ministries. The Ministries and respective pilot schemes are: (a)
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives: use of
(i) model farmers and cooperative society managers as agents for family
planning; and (ii) the rural women's functional literacy program as means for
gaining acceptance of family planning; (b) Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare:
(i) use of rural mothers' clubs for family planning motivation, (ii) use of
women's vocational training program as means for gaining acceptance of
family planning, and (iii) establish a population program for organized labor;
(c) Ministry of Agriculture: (i) use of agriculture extension workers for



- 18 -
population education; (d) Ministry of Education: (i) establish a mobile
population education team for seminars on population education for school
teachers; (e) Ministry of Information and Broadcasting: (i) use of audiovisual
vans for family planning films; and (f) MOHPP: (i) use of family planning
motivation kits by FWWs. In total, 61 thanas would be covered during the
project period by different schemes which would in turn cover a population
of about 12.6 million people (17% of the total population). These thanas have
been selected to cover all major administrative, geographic and socio-economic
conditions so that representative lessons can be learned to guide future
expansion. The schemes dealing with raising the socio-economic status of
women are new and have been initiated only recently. The project supports
these schemes because of their probable bearing on reproductive behavior.
Schemes dealing with training village leaders are already in operation and
project assistance is limited to the provision of additional training in
family planning techniques.
44.       Films and radios have been found to be effective mass media in rural
areas. The project would strengthen the capacity of the Films Department
of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for production of family
planning films; it would also establish a Population Program Cell in Radio
Bangladesh and include training of Public Relations Officers on population
problems.
45.       A high degree of political commitment is necessary to increase
the administrative efficiency of the program; in this respect the project
would assist PPD in carrying out seminars on population problems for members
of parliament, political leaders and senior civil servants.
46.       To help educate the younger generation in population problems, the
project would support the development of a curriculum for population education.
The Government has agreed to introduce population education in its primary
and secondary school system by January 1979 (Section 3.08 of DCA and Schedule
4 of DCA).
47.       Project Evaluation.   At this stage of program development, a strong
system of evaluation of all program components is crucial. The project would
support evaluation of all program inputs. The PPD would be responsible for
assisting the concerned ministries in internal evaluation and in collating
the results (Section 3.04(a) (ii) of DCA). For the nine schemes, mentioned
in paragraph 43 above, surveys would be conducted by the implementing
ministries in collaboration with PPD. In addition, a regular reporting
system would be set up in all the implementing ministries for monitoring
the schemes during project implementation.   These schemes will be evaluated
in terms of their impact on knowledge, attitude and acceptance of family
planning as well as for the effectiveness of their administrative operation.
At thie MOIIPP, tihe project would support the setting up of a system of feedback
and analysis of records of family planning acceptors, eligible couples, and
birth and death rates.   The delivery of family planning services and the
functions of FWWs would also be evaluated during the project period. The
PPS would carry out the external evaluation of project activities (Section
3.04 (b) (ii) of DCA), by carrying out periodic surveys.



- 19 -
48.       Research.  So far, few analyses of the determinants of
reproductive behavior have been made in any country. It is hoped that future
program activities can be assisted by studies on family-size norms. The
project, through the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies, would
provide back-up support for several such studies, which would also be assisted
from other sources. In addition, the project would support a study of the
effects of the national laws on population growth; a study area of special
importance will be the consideration of the law relating to the minimum age
of marriage (Section 3.06 of DCA).
49.       Other Activities.  A special effort should be made to encourage
voluntary organizations actively involved in family planning since these have
been found to be useful in other countries. In addition, it is not possible
to identify in advance all the program activities that will deserve to be
taken up during the execution of the project. Therefore, the project
supports with a special fund of US$350,000, private sector activities in
family planning and Government innovative activities in the same field
during the life of the project. These subprojects would be proposed to IDA
by the Bangladesh Government (PPD) and subject to IDA's approval (Section
3.04 (a) (iii) of DCA).
Project Organization and Implementation
50.       The project would strengthen existing institutions responsible
for project implementation. Overall responsibility for project activities
would lie with PPD in collaboration with PPS (Section 3.04 of DCA). To
ensure that PPD will be able to perform its important tasks efficiently,
it is a condition of credit effectiveness that PPD would adopt an organiza-
tional structure and be provided with full-time staff, in each case accept-
able to IDA (paragraph 60). In particular, a full-time Project Financial
Officer, assisted by specialized staff, would be appointed to the PPD
(Sections 2.09, and 6.01 (c) of DCA). During negotiations, it was agreed
that at all times, PPD would be staffed and managed by persons qualified
to insure proper project implementation, and that, in particular, the head
of the PPD, who is a senior civil servant with rank of secretary, would have
the qualifications and experience required for his difficult task (Section
3.04 (a) (v) of DCA). As for PPS, to help it carry out the external
evaluation of the project, two study groups would provide it with the
necessary technical support. The first working group would be concerned
with information, education, and motivation and would include the Population
Program Officers (paragraph 51) from the implementing ministries and other
experts. The second group would advise PPS on all evaluation and
research activities and consist of representatives of universities and
research institutions. Agreement has been reached during negotiations on
the establishment of these working groups by PPS by July 1975 (Section
3.04 (b) (iii) and Schedule 4 of DCA).



- 20 -
51.       The specific responsibility for the administration and implementation
of individual project components would lie with the concerned ministries. A
Building Planning and Design Unit (BPDU) has already been established in the
MOHPP for preparing the designs of the project buildings and planning the con-
struction program. The BPDU, in association with the Building Directorate
of the Ministry of Public Works, would supervise the execution of the
construction program (Section 3.09 of DCA). The BPDU will be assisted by
project management consultants who will help it in the key areas of design
of buildings, acquisition of land and programming the construction program.
These consulting services are of critical importance in view of the fact
that the MOHPP will be working under a tight timetable to carry out the
construction program, and any delay could seriously affect the schedule of
implementation of the training components of the project. For the non-cons-
truction program, each of the five ministries other than MOHPP, would appoint
a Population Program Officer (PPO) who would be responsible for the im-
plementation of the program in his respective ministry. The PPOs would be
at a sufficiently high level to report directly to the heads of the programs
in each ministry. Appointment and initiation of training of the PPOs,
which is a condition of credit effectiveness (paragraph 60), would have
taken place by April 30, 1975 (Schedule 4 of DCA). In this respect, the
PPD would assist the other ministries in providing technical support, equipment,
and staff training. Because of their novel and complex nature, many activities
included in this project will require a number of advisors and consultants,
both local and foreign (Section 3.03 and Schedule 6 of DCA).
52.       These institutional arrangements will be of critical importance
for ensuring the success of the project. Thus, one year after the effective
date of the proposed credit, the Bangladesh Government and IDA would carry
out a comprehensive review of the administrative and organizational arrange-
ments affecting the project with a view to determining whether any adminis-
trative or organizational changes are desirable in order to accomplish the
purposes of the project (Section 3.18 of DCA)in particular, in accordance
with the timetable for Project Implementation set out in Schedule 4 of DCA
(Section 3.01(b)(ii)). Because of its novel and complex multisectoral
nature, and the difficult situation of Bangladesh, the project would require
unusually close supervision. Supervision missions (by IDA and other donors)
would be supplemented by the work of a Population Project Officer, who
would be appointed to the Bank's resident mission in Dacca, to supervise
project execution, act as liaison between the foreign donors and the
Bangladesh Government and provide population sector guidance to the
Government.
Project Costs
53.       Total project costs are estimated at US$45.7 million (including a
foreign exchange component of about US$24.0 million). Project costs include
taxes and duties of about US$3.6 million. Project costs also include about
US$7.5 million in incremental recurrent costs (including the operational
expenditures - US$0.4 million for two years - of the four model clinics).
Once the project is completed, the recurrent cost of operating and main-
taining the buildings provided in the project would be about US$1.6 million



- 21 -
per year. This amount represents a small portion (about 6 percent)
of the total recurrent budget of MOHPP and the Ministry should be able
to continue servicing it without undue strain, once the project is completed.
Since Bangladesh has experienced a very high rate of inflation during the
last few years, especially in the construction industry, the project costs
include large contingencies to meet expected future price escalation ("Price
Contingency": about 45 percent of the base cost plus the unforeseen expend-
itures contingency) and unforeseen expenditures ("Physical Contingency": 10
percent of the base cost) during the execution of the project.
Financing
54.       The project would be financed by an IDA credit of US$15 million
and about US$27.1 million in grants from six other donors; total external
financing would be approximately equivalent to total project costs net of
taxes and duties. The expected contributions from the other donors, based on
January 1975 exchange rates, are equivalent to:
US$ Million
Australia                              2.6
CIDA                                  2.0
KfW                                    6.5
NORAD                                  8.9
ODM                                    3.3
SIDA                                   3.8
Total                           27.1
All donors, except SIDA and Australia, would participate in the project
on a parallel basis (financing identifiable components). SIDA would make
a direct contribution to the Government, while Australia's participation
would be on a joint financing basis with IDA (Section 6.01 (a) and Schedule
1 items 1 (a) and (b) of DCA). All aid would be untied except for the
possibility of some items under the ODM contribution. IDA would assist the
donors in supervising the project. IDA would handle disbursements for all
the donors, with the exception of SIDA. For that purpose, a Trust Fund,
consisting of special accounts in the central banks of these donors would
be established, these accounts would be in the donors' national currencies
and would be replenished periodically. These five donors have also agreed
to participate in meeting the costs of employing the Population Project
Officer, who would be located in the Bank's Resident Mission in Dacca;
the contributions for the Officer would be in proportion to each donor's
participation. Most administrative details of financing arrangements were
worked out in a donors' meeting held in London on November 18-20, 1974. In
addition, a day prior to negotiations, representatives from Australia, the
Federal Republic of Germany, and the United Kingdom met in Washington to



- 22 -
review certain aspects of the project. They were joined during the follow-
ing days by a representative from CIDA. The various donors will have
bilateral agreements with the Government of Bangladesh; a "Memorandum of
Agreement Regarding Project Execution, Procurement and Use of Funds" between
the six donors and IDA will be entered into, defining IDA's relationship
with these donors. Annex III to this Report provides an allocation of
donors' contributions.
Disbursements
55.       Funds from the credit, and any other project funds which IDA may
be responsible for disbursing on behalf of other donors, will be disbursed
on the basis of satisfactory evidence of expenditures submitted to IDA by
the Project Financial Officer in the PPD. Disbursements from the IDA
credit will be made as follows: (a) civil works - 60 percent of total
expenditures; (b) equipment, furniture and vehicles - 100 percent of the
CIF cost, or 70 percent of local expenditures, if locally procured; (c)
technical assistance and overseas training - 100 percent of foreign ex-
penditures; (d) operating costs of project activities under PPD, PPS,
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, MIOHPP and Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies - 100 percent of total expenditures; and (e) support
to private sector and innovative activities - 100 percent of total ex-
penditures. The aggregate of the Australian grant will be apportioned
among the same categories of expenditure as the IDA credit and will be
disbursed at the same disbursement percentage for each such category. The
grants of CIDA, KfW, NORAD, and ODM will be disbursed at the rate of 100
percent of the total cost of components allocated to the respective donor.
For certain specific key local expenditures, to speed up payments and to
encourage the prompt submission of applications for reimbursement, the
Government will establish a revolving fund in takas within a local commer-
cial Bank (Section 3.02 of DCA).
Procurement
56.       Civil works to be executed under the project will consist of small,
widely dispersed structures expected to range in cost from less than
US$50,000 to US$1.5 million each. Procurement will be by international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Contractors for
civil works will be prequalified and domestic contractors will be given a
preference of 7.5 percent. Contracts for furniture, equipment, vehicles and
parts, and imported building materials financed by the Association will also
be awarded on the basis of internationral competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA's Procurement Guidelines. For contracts of US$10,000 or less,
or where compatibility with existing items is important (which may apply
to vehicles and certain types of equipmert) such contracts may be awarded
in accordance with local procedures. In the evaluation of bids, domestic
manufacturers will be given a preference of 15 percent or the existing rate
of import duties, whichever is lower.



- 23 -
Project Benefits
57.       Apart from its contribution to help organize the program and set
it in motion, the project's main contribution would lie in the fields of
training, delivery of health and family planning services, initiation of a
fairly ambitious program of pilot activities dealing with family planning
education and motivation, and organization of a set of evaluation and
demographic research studies. It is difficult at this time to make any
meaningful estimates of the project's probable long-run demographic impact.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement,
and the text of the draft resolution approving the proposed Development
Credit Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
59.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement which are of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 39, 41, 42, 46, 47, 48, 49,
50, 51, 52, 54 and 60 of this Report. Except as noted in these paragraphs,
the draft Development Credit Agreement follows the pattern used generally
for population projects.
60.       Conditions of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of DCA) are:    (i)
the conclusion of necessary arrangements with the other donors participating
in the financing of the project; (ii) the establishment of the taka revolving
fund; (iii) the adoption of an organizational structure for the PPD accept-
able to IDA and provision of full-time staff (including the Project Financial
Officer), facilities, and organizational structure for the PPD, also accept-
able to IDA; (iv) the appointment of population planning officers in five
concerned ministries and arrangements for their training abroad; (v) sub-
mission to IDA of the description of the proposed sites for the project
buildings, indicating,for the College of Nursing and the eight FWV Training
Schools, the sites' boundaries and approximate areas and, in the case of
all buildings, information on the status of their availability; (vi) the
provision of full-time staff (including consultants) and facilities for
the BPDU satisfactory to IDA; (vii) the establishment of the NPC according
to the First Five Year Development Plan and; (viii) submission to IDA of
the terms of reference for the study of the effect of national laws on
population growth. These conditions are expected to be met by April 30,
1975. We understand that the Government has already taken steps necessary
for the timely implementation of these conditions.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
South Asia Department
February 13, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pegee
0OU8HY1 DATA - B1N5LADFSH
AREA                                              POPULATION                                  DENSITY
net11                                           72.5 mfbn(mid-1972)                          8.0    Per bslaf -rbl. land
SOCIAL IDDICATORS
Reference Countries
CORP PE  AITA tS$ (ATLAS BAIS) a                              .70 /9 0 /a                                 110 /A      430 I
DEMOGCRAPHIC
CrJ-B rat te (per thOr..eed)                           47 /bc           4/             4SI          3 j  Ic n,   34 /d
Crude death rate (per thoicord)                              20 t~           217             197b         1 6 77k:      77a .
infant mortality rate (Per tho-dani ce  births)            ..140 c                         ..       120'iO140        Ai
Life expectanc.y at birth (years)                                            481. 7?f        46           50          59
lens  r-prdr2cttc rotc2                                      3.5 lb         313.2 /g                      2,          2.7
FPopeattion groot a rate                                     *,20i                          2077          .   t      29/
PoPelattorr geoth oats - cohn                                .              .                 5            477
Ago etr-tr-r (percet)
C0-lb                                                       7/h           45/cl           (e5/ I       42           43 /A
15-61                                                       i.s?;          527#T           53 77         55          53 77
65 en  cm                                                    477            377t27?                       3           17%
Sen-dsocv .oti   A                                           1.6 7F,        1.5              1. is7;      1.2 L.S     1.327!.
Ulrban pj.Oltto- on perc-t cf total                           ..                              17 a~       lb lb        27 Id
Parily pl-onhg: Na of acceptors    -1.oltl~o (th-c. 5         ,.                              7175.                   220
Nc.o clone (8 cf ere         ren           ,,....                                       ..15 7%
Tofltc,rM fnnce ( th-omode)                               17r100 /c      22,300 ,c       40, 100/     221,000 It    3,203 Id
Parcact-gs nepioyod in  gicitr                              76             71               63           71          45 7d
Pnrc-togo   nmpcn                                           ..                               2          .71
Percent of co.tinnal inco.e roci-d cy higbh-t 5%              19 I  -         7/y5o          .             22 Ic       22 Ir t
Psrcet of osti.n. i-r0- r--inod 02 higinet20                  45~                    ~       .             48          52
Pec btc .atoa  inton  ocein-d by Ince.st 20%           7              9 /r,co        ..a                    ~        .
Percent of netinool incoo ro-tned by l1--t .0%                iS                  -no        ..19 2                    12 _____
G1l1mIBUTION OP LAND CWE8RHIHT
% caned hy tcp 1%o     osm.                                                   4I
8 cord by orse1lot IC)% or -or .-                                             1 77
HEALTH AND NlTITION
PopulatIon mperpysiian                                    lOeQOS I        7,6CC /to       27,650        4,800       3,860 /dw
PPoplati-o Per orsigpro                                  130,0CC?7;      72,ojozit         5,020        5,030       I' orIo  -
PouaInPer hospital bed                              13,000 -7z       8,120  r         r70          ,620 tn.a     '330
No c.pito colnat   nopply n8of -ocire-ste /5                 ...                               2 In        8  /ob      94, Id c
Per capita pretoir~ spply, toa(graea pen day) /6             ..4.3 7?                                      ;2c          ,
Of hlich, arl-l end Polse,                                                                  lb..1  7?    3671        
Death rats 1-b yeere /7                                       ..                             .             .o
EUIMATION
Adjosto-Ed /8 P'trrary school ...rcl1bet rattc                42 /ad.as      50 /ob a.        71           79 Iaf      89 /d
AdjAsted      ...eoni-y.schboo  e.1cflet oct108/o,g                          05fI             12           28 T7?      31 777
rears ofmho.tig provilde,first and escood lanai               iI  7          10 7.S           12           322         13 -77
Vo...tlosa1 s-aieet-   n   of nec  -ohool enrollent          ...26                                          6/icot      37/d
Adult literacy rate %                                        ...56 .6%s,n                                  36 T~k      89 SSEL 
HOUSIWG
Avera.ge No. nf penance Por noo  (ur.ba)...
Per cant ot -nopted -citb o.hnout. piped an.nrt.                             .
Access tolectricity (as % of total Pepc1otoco.               ,
Pecn  ftonal pepeleuiet ouc-nto tc eloctricity          . 
rON SIDlfrf5N
NM re -,per 1000 pepolation.                                           oh                          21          52
Passosg-rcar pee 3000 pePcI'irco                             ...2                                           3          26 /r,c
El-acirh  -oe   -snr-pnlec (huso P.c.                          0              119                         ill          346 7W"
Noes pniot -cno,ptton p-c kg pen year                         ..                             0.2          0.3         3.8 X7cc
Notes:  cigua-m  refer either to tha IsCtes  periods or to         ecrtofnsa-eotaltcpeaatoa-, bodry weights, ida
the latLeat Yearn. Inteat pea-loa refer in principle to            dietrihotico by ags acid e-  of natia.1 popuclations.
tor yea-e 1956-60 or 1966-70; the icc-t y.-r io parib-         /6  Protein etadarde (a-oqutr 'eeta( for all enoatn.e sea estb-
ipie tb i9d0 and 3970.                                             liehe  by USDA E-scric Re.search lea-i.a p-oide for a elnrc
a   71c Per Capita GP -ottontn tc -t noitt pric-    ic a.nac                 of 60 ga-oe  of tctal Protein per day, eat 20 grei  of
Y_r   ether thon 1960, coacuisted by the oxe  --i..rso,        aelna  and puise Protein, of ahich 10 granshalould he ao-eal
technique On the 1972 World Ic-ro Atl-c                        protei, Theae eteadarce -ae aecabat i1oe     than ihose of 75
/2 As-ege noeb-r nf d-ught-r per -no      of reproduction          gr      of total protein nod 23 ga-oe  of -Anlal pc'telc as anb
age.                                                           ane-ge for the eeIe, proposed by PAO In ths Third World FoiJ
/5  pepudotton gro'th rern a- for the d-cdnn endIng is             So-nY.
1960 cod 1 970.                                            /7 lone etodies bone   uggeote  thant orode death ratse of c-dildrmn
A   RaPtic of cader 35 cod 65 cr0 0cr ngr bra.h. t k tc            ages 1 through 4 -aY he need aoafiast app-r    -teatc  toden of
those to abor force hb-arhe  of ag-o 15 through 6i.             -1-trlitiofl.
F57O reference otnodo-rin   . repeerc  phynilogIro' a-n-     /8 Peroetags enrolled of cnar,espooding population of school age
qola-note for cnrnl activity nod hcIth, unhiog                 as dfio-d for each country.
A 93;  l   1961;   Ic  F.tieete;   /d West Wyalsia;     /S   Register-ed only;  If PoJaCtioc, 1973;      /g  1965-70;
1960-61i  IA   1960-7r2;  U.   Mtrnlclpolltie, regency capitale and other piacee ;ith arbo   charactarttice;    A   For
definitionr of urban eec us Deso a-alla earbook 1 72 p. 154,     a5  1972-73k   /    Ratio of pepola.tie  noder 15 and 65
and over to total labor   arcs;    a  Ratio of population ender 15 and 65 andema to total labor force is age ga..seP 15-59;
In  Gbodied areas of 1.0,000 or rea- libitooc'.;      /p  AID  etitoat  of labor force L- Age group 15-59; CBRD5 a-port giree 
fligure of 180.4 silliin b...d no the 1971 popolat3bo  nanee.  Th. otlfferarco  ie den to obhnges in the definition ofa
-rber.    In the 1931 -enac, persona cone nlaaefied only no the boatis of their male antitoltle; this led to the
ac.l.etne of ena-lcategcrlem, etch aa haoueswives;      /5  1963-64;   Iar  HGuaehnida;   /a  19604.65;  It  1D6pi
In Tooo;    I   1967-68, geographicaL interpolotton;   I.  Nunb.r 00 tim r-egister, sot all co-ning in tie cacotry;
77   Eareee i I aererot      -sne .....ly;  ly  Gonoansotoe-pitals only;     /n  1968;   Ia  n,bI.tAin  rual hospttale;
7a%h  1969-70;'/an    i964-66;   /ad  1959-b0;   Ae ppruaiots enrollont uspremg              fPopolathos io 6-10 age group;
71?  Estimate chT.   Inciudes -n77-ga at.dents;  'f~   Apyro~Imteat eorcllrnt am P-rnonege of popointino In    11    age groop;
M~   Up to end of e..ncod 1acel    Iai  1965;   Z5j, 15 yours and ove;     /ain  Population of 10 years and oher hosed on one
pecc..nt aempl, data of 1373;  7ai   3961    /an  Defloiti-n of literac-Y uohooc     I-   1370;   lao  1966-67.
c  Ilectian of Malaysia oe on  bje-tl- nocotry is hased .. Mielayela's eaoemi aalntalshLng a high rate of aco-oel
growth and adsqote leve    of wh far  noona--t1y aith dd-erefyig it. eccooic atrotar.
84 Jic:coy 2, 1975



-c-cj -I.ccfncc i-Ac tLt ci  x -c-mcci, [c i
Pccflccxixc-cnircc  oxi--id  i91  cc~~~~ ci-cni  /0  TO  -i~~'  ~   ~~c~-tc-o  cc-IF  ic-cccicc:c  -xix  oxxc1I-I  7
iiiIcxll-c        iO1cilic iAJ   9
P-          "l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dlccxicc cccua       ccii
i-- lo  -ci  x-4-~ci  x inTcci-d  c/i6c C[ x  mci'c ci
Cxl  21.. ~~~~~~~~~~~6/L        cii  cc~~~~~7  '   ciI  {  OF  I 6T
9L: I            p!I 6ci                                                           -cA
LS I                     -                             iI F.
9/i      CO.                                 I I   I-   II
i-i      9i11I      -i-'--cc-                    I 'c -c-A.V
T-- -1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~~icc17       9                                     c-v---cc
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oII        j,pi 1x.c1C 
iII i' ~ ~  ~    ~     c  ilu    icicci- -                                           -
-i   ___ _9
Y L   -0 _                                                         --6  L  I  "Wi           -c: 
cc/Cx6,I 1 C/ic  04, O/ 6gcc6
C' OW   0~~~                           C//cccic  -cc Cc/I  U  /iI cc  c,  'x6l  C/69c1 i   c T'  J
9 o  ~     : 6                 7,; ,c c.RI             Ot  I  60-1 I              -c v
i--c      ~     ~    ~~~~~~I  n              ZtLII
o L              9 f CII  x  cii  li-c       ill   6  Ii       ccc-c-  -
o     c I /       C  69  9 99  66                               xc. 
             9'9ScII  C'9               I9t 96!'O
69  (  cicx                        c
7                         Os ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ic 9  i             9c-
(,7-                             -L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  c
cc     Ii                                                                   ic-c  ccc - c-c  p  cC.A-  c-c,
6'91C                                     60!   il'6xiii                   --  (C'c,Qc-  cu cc-cI-cI
-   -  C             . 6!c                i     ii,
z-  9   I -                  iiEl-  I 7  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~/l   9  C-  77-A   cic  c-  c-nccc-c--
Sic-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 
IT71                     ;,9~~~~6  'c)                                                  c
IIcN



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pageo
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, E1I1ZNAL ASSISTANCE AND DENT
-     essots in Mili-ns of 0.0. dollarS at current price,)
Er-eared for Easc   ahkiutc-       b          A          N                     L L      A      1)        E        S       Nf      Avg. Anaeal
Actual                       Estimated                                  Projeoted                                  Growth Eate
1969        1970        19         1972/73       1973/74      1974/75    195/76     19-76/7     19 77/78    19         19          1955-1970
SI9MMAP.Y 5ATA01CE OF PAYME6ITS
E-cp-rts (inEl. TIEl)                    449        488                     338           360          409         472          556       615         ..                      3.6
Loosens (ie' -  -  .634                             711                     721          917         1, 488      1,298        1,339     1, 438        ..         ..           4.9
Eoeceee're  . .=                        -ldi       -2 ISW                                F;T        -1-r0/9       -h           -78       -823 .2.
Itet-ret (n-0)
Etrert. Ir.esoennt Incme-                 53         58                      30            -3           -I          -6          -21       -36
.;crE e's Nusi dtatne
E - -  T- -- f,                  - 75        -56
--  .  203   -                       -9                                              - --- -4 -5               =
Pre/in<e Gierect *Tnvs tmenst
ret'/ec ii Eapetal Ialets                                                   202           2,J4         425         330          350       350
r :el/c 44L19 Trans
Li .: /ura.-. 'antIs                                                       73           231          4`7         400          430       470
-ERen;'eoeees                                                              -24            -6          -10         -18          -27       -29
d(rn Dltsarnrb.t -ts                                                        25            h24          842       '7'        '            751
r:yler 'fc/ i.tat
_~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~br 1 _____ _ot_ _e
!3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At I                                                                                             Eti_t--
C.et.all Tr.,t.sact'it                                                                                                                      17.e.0 19no  19 E   197?       1933
/ten'een Ir !4t Ressrves                                                                           YDET AII DE10T S8RVICE
PalbliO Debt Out. &c.olteurred
ike t                                                              684        Interetst os PRbli  Debt
l/eepayMets en PaTlie Debt
: .l c lvf.ir loans                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.tl] P bli, Debt S-, i..
T,RG                                                                                                Other Gebt Ser-cee (.et)
TrA                                                                                      74         Total Debt Ser,ice (unt)
itea- MIltiDus' ri-ti .l                                                                 1/         rden rn Depere. EbrsrIs (f) l0.2      lO.s      13.3        9. 4
a.lt ee -                                                                               4'4        PltblhO  Debt Serrice
-ttlrst                                                                       I14         Total Debt Ser i-e
ITDSDi-rct LoV.'.. Tec.
446      Alerage Ter-s of P,bliai  )ebt
Actual Esht Ostse,tdtg orJst'- 20, 1973                    's.   As  P rAs Eeu ELfPeD  27         2.7       2.4        1/         2.
tPyfr9RTA  3ftm                               rsbActudab-.d Oly          percent                       A-orn. as i Pr/ir Your Y  0RD  4.6      4I        3.5        4.4        4.3
16.2                    95.                        IhRD Debt Cht. F, Dib-r-ed
n/cer 'htiltclatersrl                             -                       -                                % e ablir Debt O0D     5.7        5.7       5.3        '.         3.8
li'e-ttn.e'-t:.                                 104.0                   59.0                         '  a    Psblic Debt Serst-e TE.7       11.2       1 .6      22.2        9.7
p.tT.nlie:s  t t t                             56.1                   31.8
e..t,.f. 1 ~~~~.y< t  ~-                                                               00D Debt Ot,t. & liskur-e
trod., .'.s _ s o                                                                                   as 0 Rukbiir Debt 00D     K.3        7.9       7.3        6.9        9.9
7   it -4'a   -dlsKi f.IT                                                                               Debt ~ ~ t as I Rib/ac Debt leraice  1.0  1.0  1.(        1.6 .q
matEe 'e :i.T  9etJt' De.                       iI
I otat -t t9m Dent -d sU- on>
<toe -essNe  (dst.-sy)
. re nottw  Tre;ble                                              e stodff -etireetn
.. teo/ ttet7ai]l t                                              - ril or segligible
seenountie Oable separately                                  --  lessrset-n helfl the
ne1t iselee,/31 ntl toiaT                                        smballest seet shows
-h Iled-'."I, Teas -ct-tracted ci-st indepe-de-ce. The -cttle-ect of d,bh         -tcorn ted by Pakistna  en behalf
.e.; teters .ine rates etltlles,   Estimates of IBRD leans for IroPacts visibly 1-tated it B-gl.d-sh none
/2     En;, e,te i-tl,ta, diaburreserts-  f appresisatelV US$29.8 eiTicee free pre-iTdepeedencc deTer that has b-e trkes
o:.:r by l, aiadeeh.  te if Octiber 31, 1974, IDA dishb-rseent.s cqtal U2$143.9 eillioa.



ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of December 31, 1974
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
Credit                                                        US$ Million
Number   Year               Purpose                       Amount     Undisbursed
339      1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(replaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971) 25.0         20.3
340      1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                 13.0       10.2
341       1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                                14.0       12.4
343       1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3        5.1
345      1972      Reconstruction Imports                   50.0         4.7
353       1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)              3.0        1.2
367       1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)               7.0        2.5
368      1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963)              13.2        3.9
S-14      1973     Irrigation Engineering (replaces
Credits Nos. S-8-PAK and S-10-PAK
of 1969 and 1970)                        3.15       0.1
381      1973      Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                     19.7        0.8
407       1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)            21.0       12.6
408       1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0.      19.2
409       1973     Technical Assistance                       4.0        3.6
410       1973     Cereal Seeds                               7.5        7.5
424       1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation      4.1        3.9
458       1974     (Second) Imports Program                  50.0       10.7
487       1974     Second Telecommunications                 20.0       20.0
515       1974     (Third) Imports Program                   50.0       37.5
Total                       336.95      176.2



ANNEX II
Page 2
I.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project; US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 18, 1972; Closing Date:   June 30, 1976
Credit oecame effective January 17, 1973.   Implementation of tne
original project, financed under Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971, had not commenced
prior to the suspension of disbursements. Eartnwork has been completed for
fifty-four miles of primary roads, and 60 cyclone shelters are under construc-
tion. However, progress has been slow due to the severe shortages of construc-
tion materials in Bangladesh. For the other subprojects (inland water trans-
port, telecommunications, feeder roads, coastal fisheries and cyclone warning)
progress h-ias been mainly limited to the preparation and floating of tenders
and ordering of equipment and materials. Project completion is expected to
be about two years behind the schedule anticipated at appraisal. Tne Govern-
ment has submitted to the Association a proposal for reducing the scope of
the project in order to cope with the sharp increase in construction costs
since the Project was appraised.   The proposal involved reductions in the
feeder roads to be financed by the Credit (a proposal for financing these
roads is under discussion with the World Food Program), reductions in the
fisheries subproject, and minor reductions in other project items. Given
the very early stage of procurement under the project, it was decided not
to formally amend thie project at thiis stage. i4eanwhile it was agreed that
the Government's proposals for reducing the project provided a reasonable
basis for proceeding for the time being.   In about six months, when better
cost estimates are available, and when we have more experience concerning
the success of the various project components, a decision will be made
concerning the amendments required under the credit.
Cr. Nio. 340   Chandpur Irrigation II Project; US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Thie Project is far behind schedule and continues to be plagued with
problems.  Major flooding, work stoppages caused by 100Z increase in con-
struction labor costs, shortages of cement and operable construction equip-
ment, ineffective management, inadequate provision of local funds and general
inflation are factors which affect the project adversely.   Recent procurement
of 1,600 tons of cement has slightly eased the shortage.   Spart parts are
now available for repair of construction equipment, but the lack of trained
mechanics and repair facilities will delay getting the equipment into
operation. Manufacture of the electrical and mechanical equipment for the
regulators and pumping plant has been completed, but no delivery has been
made. The award of contracts for low lift irrigation pumps is schieduled
for the second quarter of 1975.  Continuing inflation and other adverse
factors are expected to increase the Project costs to more than 50A above
the latest estimate.



ANNEX II
Page  3
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972,
Closing Date:  December 31 , 1976
Tnis project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 208-PAK of
1970 and credits from Sweden and Canada. Although bids had been received
in 1971, no contracts were awarded before the disturbances. The present
Credit, again in conjunction with a US$6 million Credit from Sweden and a
US$6 million grant from Canada, became effective on January 17, 1973. Well
construction on this project began during January, 1974. In April, IDA
approved award of the contract for supply of the well pumps and engines.
Due to initial delays, present implementation is about one year behind scnied-
ule, and new dates have been agreed for the completion of the activities on
which original deadlines have passed. Increases in project costs may require
a reallocation of credit proceeds. In January 1974, the Government and the
engineering consultants signed a revised contract providing for the additional
engineering and agriculture consulting services needed for the project. In
February, the agricultural consultants (who were under sub-contract to tne
engineering consultants) withdrew from the project, stating that the salary
scales in the revised contract signed by the engineering consultants were
inadequate to attract staff of the calibre required for the project. The
Consultants also noted the lack of progress by the Government in making
necessary preparations for implementation of the agricultural development
component of the project. While progress on implementation of the agricul-
tural component has meanwhile improved, the Government has remained unwilling
to pay the agricultural consultants more than had been agreed in the contract
with the engineering consultants. The engineering consultants are making
new arrangements to provide the required agricultural consulting services.
Cr. iio. 343   Telecommunications Project; US$7.3 Mlillion Credit of
November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 17, 1973. The project was origi-
nally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969, and goods and services
valued at about US$2.2 million were received in Dacca prior to suspension of
disbursements.  Orders have been placed for most of the remaining equipment
required under the project, but delays in finalizing the contracts and
in organizing delivery and installation of the equipment will probably
necessitate an extension of the Closing Date.
Cr. *No. 345   Reconstruction Imports Project; US$50.0 'Million Credit of
November 30, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Credit became effective January 30, 1973. As of December 31, 1974
disbursements were US$45.3 million and, in addition, letters of credit
guaranteed by IDA had been opened for US$3.7 million. Due to initial
delays, the Credit had no impact on production in 1972/73, and its impact
on production only began to be felt this year. The Bangladesh Bank has
fully committed the proceeds of the Credit, but due mainly to delays in
finalizing contracts with suppliers and arranging shipping for tne imported



ANNEX II
Page 4
goods, the Credit was not fully disbursed by August 31, 1974, the original
closing date, and the Association agreed to a request for the extension
of the Closing Date to March 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit
of January 19, 1973; Closing Date:    June 30, 1976
Credit became effective May 14, 1973. The project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970. Tne Credit has financed no-
tional repayment of amounts previously disbursed under Credit No. 192-PAK
(US$187,000) and payment of outstanding amounts for consulting services
performed under Credit No. 192-PAK (US$12,000). Disbursements for new
activities up to December 31, 1974 amounted to approximately US$1.5 million.
Projects pipeline requirements now exceed available foreign exchange re-
sources during 1975/76 and a second credit operation is under consideration.
More emphasis will be needed on speed of implementation of projects. A UNOP/
UINIDO technical assistance project is expected to help BSIC reorganization
during 1975/76.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. Ene project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963. By December 1971 when disburse-
ments were suspended, US$3.3 million had been disbursed. The project, as
reappraised in 1972, is now about 65% completed. Construction progress nas
been slow due to problems with land acquisition, poorly performing and de-
faulting contractors and suppliers, and the shortage of supplies and materi-
als. Construction and material prices have risen sharply. Construction
progress is expected to improve as materials become available, but exten-
sion of the closing date by at least two years may be required. Mtanagement,
labor and union problems are diminishing following appointment of new Chair-
man. While collection performance has improved recently, financial opera-
tions and financial management remain weak. The Water Authority and the
Planning Commission are currently preparing proposals for revising tariffs,
billing and collection procedures and arrangements for capital financing.
Cr. .No. 368   Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Credit became effective June 7, 1973. Tae project was originally
financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of 1963. By December 1971, when disburse-
ments were suspended, US$6.0 million had been disbursed.   The water supply
portion of the project, as reappraised in 1972, is now about 60% completed
and the sewerage portion about 30% completed.   Construction progress has
been slow due to problemas with land acquisition, poorly performing and de-
faulting contractors and suppliers, and the shortage of supplies and mate-
rials. Construction anid material prices have risen sharply. Construction



Page  5
progress is expected to improve as materials become available, but exten-
sion of the closing date by at least two years may be required. Manage-
ment, labor and union problems continue. Tne financial operations and
financial management are weak. The Water and Sewerage Authority is cur-
rently preparing proposals for revising tariffs and capital financing.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit
of May 18, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 17, 1973. The project was originally
financed by a US$19.2 million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million
Kronor credit from the Kingdom of Sweden. The Kingdom of Sweden is again
providing a 25 million Kronor Credit. The project is almost completed and
95 percent of the new IDA and Swedish credits were used for repaying the
previous credits. The remaining funds (US$1.25 million from IDA and about
US$0.25 million equivalent from Sweden) are being used to pay outstanding
bills for work completed prior to the war, completion of some supporting
facilities for the grain storage silos, replacement of spares and equipment
damaged during the war, and a feasibility study for a second grain storage
project. The closing date has been postponed by one year to December 31, 1975
due mainly to delays in reaching agreement with the consultants who are
designing modifications for the jetty at Chittagong and with the consultants
preparing the feasibility study for a second stage project.   Thle designs
for the jetty modifications are expected shortly and will be followed by
invitations to tender for the construction.   The draft final report for
the feasibility study was completed in December and is being reviewed by
IDA and the Government.  A supervision mission which visited in November
reported serious deterioration in the silos mechanical equipment due to
inadequate maintenance. In addition, delays in ordering spare parts (for
which funds are available under the credit) increased the risk of breakdown.
Measures to be taken to alleviate these problems are under discussion with
the Government.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 ilillion Credit of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Credit became effective September 27, 1973. The project was
originally financed by two IDA credits, Credits Nos. 49-PAK and 87-PAK.
By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million nad
been disbursed out of US$17.5 million, the aggregate total of the two
former credits. The credit adds US$3.5 million to the total of the
original credits, in order to help the government meet part of the in-
crease in total project cost. Progress on the agricultural university
portion of the project has been delayed due to difficulties in reaching
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract. These
difficulties have now been finally resolved. Construction has also been
delayed due to shortage of building material.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. Ao. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 MLillion of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit Agreement became effective on September 27, 1973.    Tne
project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By December 1971,
when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been disbursed, out
of the original credit of US$22.5 million. The new credit adds US$2.5 mil-
lion to the original credit amount, in order to help the Government meet part
of the increase in total project cost as a result of currency realignments.
Four construction contracts were signed in September 1973 for the Sitalakhya
Bridge and the Feni Section of the Dacca/Cniittagong road worth about US$9.2
million.  A fifth contract with consultants for construction supervision was
signed in February 1974 but thiey were in the field earlier. Tne progress of
the project is slow but it is improving and the outlook, generally, is satis-
factory.  Tne major problems are shortage of essential supplies, like cement
and steel, and rising prices. The Government is making its best efforts to
make materials available for the execution of the project and, at least for
the present construction seasoin, no disruption of the work is anticipated.
A cost overrun is likely as prices continue to rise. A supervision mission
was in the field in October/November and new cost estimates are currently
ueing prepared.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 ilillion Credit of
June 29, 1973; Closing Date:   December 31, 1975
Credit became effective August 20, 1973. Consultants contracts
nave been signed for an inland water transport study, technical advisory
services for preparation of t'Lis proposed fertilizer project, a study of
areas suitable for rainfed I4YV rice and for preparation of a fisheries
project.  Discussions are under way concerning several other subproject
proposals.
Cr. No. 410     Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 'Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Credit became effective January 30, 1974. A contract for consult-
ants services has been signed and the consultants (specialists in seed pro-
duction, seed legislation and certification, and farm machinery) commenced
their duties in Bangladesh Mlarch 1974.  Bids for the major items to be pur-
chased (farm equipment and processing plants) are expected to be received
early in 1975.
Cr. No. 424     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$4.1 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Credit became effective September 27, 1973.   Detailed investiga-
tions have indicated that the damage to the Cniittagong offshore oil terminal
was more severe than previously believed. Consultants appointed late in 1973
to study several alternative technical solutions submitted their findings and



ANNEX II
Page  7
recommendations to the Government in late January. The Government lhas re-
quested the Association's agreement to a modification of the project descrip-
tion to enable the implementation of a proposed alternative solution which
will require more foreign exchange than has been provided in the Credit.
This is presently under review. The Association has cleared, after some
modifications, the lists of spare parts, tools and equipment submitted by
the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority and bangladesh Inland
Water Transport Corporation, Chittagong Port Trust and Bangladesh Engineer-
ing and Shipping Corporation for financing under the Credit. Tne lists
submitted may ihave to be reduced to remain within the credit allocations.
Cr. No. 458    Imports Program; US$50 Million Credit of February 7, 1974;
Closing Date: Mlarch 31, 1976
Credit became effective February 13, 1974. By June 1974 licences
for the full amount of the credit had been issued to the various eligible
industries.  As of December 31, 1974 disbursements amounted to US$39.3
million and, in addition, letters of credit guaranteed by IDA had been
opened for US$9.5 million.   Import orders have been placed for the balance,
and the credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1975.
Cr. N4o. S-14  Irrigation Engineering Project; US$3.15 Hlillion Credit
of April 9, 1973; Closing Date: July 31, 1975
Credit became effective July 8, 1973. When IDA suspended disburse-
ments under the original credits to Pakistan (Credit Nos. S-8 and S-10) in
December 1971, the Dacca Southwest feasibility studies were completed and
the Karnafuli-Muhuri studies were about three quarters completed. Interim
financing from Sweden allowed the work to continue. The feasibility studies
for the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects are now completed.   Progress has been
made on the studies for the Comilla-Noakhali project (Dakatia Unit) and a
preliminary draft report has been submitted to the Government.   In September
1974 a Bank mission appraised the Muhuri and Karnafuli projects; appraisal
reports are now being prepared.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Ilillion Credit
of June 26, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Credit became effective on July 23, 1974. Tender documents for
the microwave systems and multiplex equipment have now been prepared and
approved by the Association for tendering. Proposed legislation for
establishment of a telecommunications board has been prepared and submitted
to the Minister of Communications for approval. Consultants proposals for
accounting services have been submitted and are being reviewed by the
Telecommunications Department.



ANNEX II
Page b
Cr. No. 515     (Third Imports Program; US$50 Killion Credit of
October 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Credit became effective on October 10, 1974.    Provision was made
to reimburse the Government for up to US$10 million for eligible imports
paid for after July 1, 1974 but prior to the date of the credit. Disburse-
ments amounted to $12.5 million as of December 31, 1974.    The Government has
allocated the remaining credit funds among the various eligible industries.
Letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$4.7 million and import
orders for the balance are expected to be placed by January 31, 1975. It
is intended that as soon as the Fourth Replenishment Agreement becomes
effective an amendment will be proposed increasing the amount of the credit
to US$75 million.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADES}I
POPULATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:              US$15 million equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Purpose:            To help develop Bangladesh's population planning program.
The Project will: (a) expand the capacitv for training
health and family planning manpower for a nation-wide
service delivery program; (b) help reactivate Bangla-
desh's family planning program by providing training
and salary support for 3,700 female family welfare
workers who will deliver maternal and child health and
family planning services; (c) establish a number of
pilot schemes for introducing family planning education
and motivation elements in the development programs of
five ministries; (d) strengthen the capacity of the
mass media to deal with population topics; and (e) build
up research and evaluation activities to provide the
knowledge needed for future program expansion.
Financing Plan:
Source                    Contribution   Current EquivalentImype of Financing
(millions)     (in US$ millions)
Australia                  A$    2.0           2.6           Joint with IDA
Canada (CIDA)              Can$  2.0           2.0           Parallel
Federal Republic of
Germany (KfW)            DM   15.0           6.5           Parallel
Norway (NORAD)             NKr  45.0           8.9           Parallel
Sweden (SIDA)              SKr  15.0           3.8            Joint with
Government
United Kingdom (ODM)       f     1.4           3.3           Parallel
Government of Bangladesh       n.a.            3.6           n.a.
IDA                            n.a.           15.0           n.a.
Total                          45.7
/1    Based on January 1975 exchange rates.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
Estimated Cost:     US$45.7 million of which US$21.7 is expected to be local.
currency and US$24.0 million foreign exchange.
Cost estimates by expenditure categories are summarized
below:
US$ (000)--------
Local   Foreign    Total
I. Construction
Civil Works:
Labor                  2,729        -        2,729
Material               2,599       7,668    10,267
Furniture & Equipment    569      2,274      2,843
Fees                     625        208        833
Sub-total           6,522      10,150    16,672
II.  Non-Construction
Vehicles                  -           935       935
Special Equipment          40       2,378     2,418
Technical Assistance      -           697       697
Incremental Recur-
rent Cost              7,338          29     7,367
Support to Private
Sector and
Innovative
Activities                350         -        350
Sub-total           7,728      4,039     11,767
III.  Contingencies            7,410      9,855    17,265
TOTAL EXPECTED COST OF
PROJECT                     21,660     24,044    45,704



AXilEX III
Page 3 of 4
Bangladesh Population Project: Proposed Allocation of Contributions
(US$ OOs)
IDA and GOB
CIDA    KfW     NORAD   ODM     Austra- and       Total
lia    SIDA
I.   Construction
Components
Nursing  College                                        1,091     700    1,791
Model Family
Planning Clinics                                     1,132     725    1,857
FWV Training Schools                  8,342   1,192                      9,534
Thana Health
Complexes                                  1,944     8,293   5,315   15,552
Union Health
Subcenters          2248                             1,666   1,067    2,981
Subtotal - I       248            8,342   3,136   12,182   7,087   31,715
II. Non-Construction
Components
PPS of the Planning
Commission                                             604              604
Ministry of Local
Government, Rural
Development and                                          -
Cooperatives       1,747                                        91    1,838
Ministry of Labor
and Social
Welfare                    1,609                                      1,609
Ministry of
Agriculture                                                    160      160
Ministry of
Education                                                      589      589
Ministry of
Information and
Broadcasting                                         2,376            2,376
Ministry of Health
and Population
Planning                   4,376                     1,575            5,951
Bangladesh Institute
of Development
Studies                                                475              475
Support to Private
Sector and
Innovative
Activities                                             387              387
Subtotal - II    1,747   5,985                    5,417      340   13,989
Total            1,995   5,985    8,342   3,136   17,599   8,647   45,704



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Procurement:         Civil works to be executed under the project will
consist of small, widely dispersed structures expected
to range in cost from less than US$50,000 to US$1.5
million each.   Procurement will be by international
competitive bidding ifn accordance with IDA's guidelines.
Contractors for civil works will be prequalified and
domestic contractors will be given a preference of
7.5 percent. Contracts for furniture, equipment,
vehicles and parts, and imported building materials
financed by the Association will also be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines. For
contracts of US$10,000 or less, or where compatibility
with existing items is important (which may apply to
vehicles and certain types of equipment) such con-
tracts may be awarded in accordance with local
procedures. In the evaluation of bids, domestic
manufacturers will be given a preference of 15 per-
cent or the existing rate of import duties, which-
ever is lower.
Estimated            -----_-------------JS$ Thousands)------------------
Disbursements:       FY 1976   FY 1977   FY 1978    FY 1979   FY 1980    FY 1981
1,319     2,777      4,509     5,187     1,069       139
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 543a-BD; dated February 3, 1975
Population and Nutrition Projects D)epartment.



