CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 533 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 10, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 533 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Population Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 10, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 10, 1975, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Australia
a grant (hereinafter called the Australian Grant) in an amount of 2,000,000
Australian dollars to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Australian Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and Australia and the proceeds of such
Grant will be disbursed by the Association together with the proceeds of the Credit;
(C)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Canada,
acting through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a grant
(hereinafter called the CIDA Grant) in an amount of Can$2,000,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the CIDA Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and Canada;
(D)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany, acting through the Kreditanstalt ffr Wiederaufbau ("KfW")
a Kdrperschaft des cffentlichen Recht, a grant (hereinafter called the German Grant)
in an amount of DM15,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the German
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federal Republic
of Germany;
(E)   The Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of Norway, acting
through the Norwegian Agency for International Development (NORAD), a grant
(hereinafter called the NORAD Grant) in an amount of NKr45,000,000 to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the NORAD Agreement) to be entered into betweeh
the Borrower and the Kingdom of Norway;
(F)   The Kingdom of Sweden, acting through the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA), intends to make available to the Borrower a grant


﻿4                                          0
(hereinafter called the SIDA Grant) in an amount of SKrl 5,000,000 to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the SIDA Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Kingdom of Sweden;
(G)   The Borrower intends to contract from the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, acting through its Ministry for Overseas Development
(ODM), a grant (hereinafter called the ODM Grant) in an amount of £1,400,000
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called the ODM Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; and
(H)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BIDS" means the Bangladesh Institute of '.velopment Studies, an
independent institute established by the Borrower with responsibility for carrying
out and coordinating research in Bangladesh;
(b)   "BPDU" means the Building Planning and Design Unit within the
MOHPP;
(c)   "FFWW" means Female Family Welfare Worker, the title of employees
of the MOHPP who provide direct public health services at the village level;


﻿5
(d)   "FWV" means Family Welfare Visitor, the title of employees of the
MOHPP who provide public health services at rural health complexes and union
health subcenters, prescribe and supply birth control devices and supervise FFWWs;
(e)   "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program unit within
the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Co-operatives;
(f)   "MIB"   means    the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Information  and
Broadcasting;
(g)   "MOHPP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and Population
Planning;
(h)   "NPC" means the National Population Council, a council with
ministerial and public representation which is to be charged with setting the
Borrower's population policies;
(i)   "Other Participants" means the donors (not including the Association)
referred to in the Preamble of this Agreement and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, any other governmental or international institution (other than
the Borrower or an agency of the Borrower) which makes funds available to the
Borrower for purposes of the Project;
(j)   "PPD" means the Population Planning Division of the MOHPP;
(k)   "PPO" means population program      officer, the official (however
described) within various ministries of the Borrower who will have line responsibility
for carrying out such ministries' population programs;
(1)   "PPS" means the Health, Social Welfare and Population Planning
Section within the Borrower's Planning Commission;
(m)   "Project," and references to "Parts" thereof, means the project, or
parts thereof, as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(n)   "Project Financial Officer" means the financial officer described in
Section 2,09(a) of this Agreement;
(o)   "Revolving  Fund" means the fund      for financing certain taka
expenditures for the Project described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and


﻿6
(p)   "taka" or "TK" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1985, and ending December 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿7
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall appoint a senior official, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, in the PPD whose
sole responsibility shall be to serve as Project Financial Officer.
(b)   The Project Financial Officer is hereby designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions, and is further authorized to designate other officials
to take such action in his absence or inability to act.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, public
health and population planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation to the foregoing, (i) the Borrower undertakes to
insure that FFWWs are required and enabled to spend at least half of their working
time on family planning motivation and services activities, (ii) the Borrower shall,
except as the Association may otherwise agree, and notwithstanding Section
12.03(a) of the General Conditions, carry out the Project strictly in accordance
with the timetable for Project implementation set out in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and (iii) the Borrower shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, and notwithstanding Section 12.03(a) of the General Conditions, carry out,
or cause to be carricd out, the studies described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
not later than the dates indicated therein.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the
preceding Section 3.01, the Borrower shall:
(a)   establish and maintain a Revolving Fund in a commercial bank to be
used exclusively to account and make payments for the following items for the
Project to the extent payment for them is to be made in takas:
(i)         expenses of consultants and advisors referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement;
(ii)        import duties, other local taxes and other expenses incident to
the import into Bamgladesh, and clearance through Customs, of


﻿8
all imported items for the Project (other than for transportation
and marine insurance); and
(iii)       contingencies: any other expenditures for the Project in respect
of which prompt payment is desirable.
(b)   deposit in the Revolving Fund at least once per month (if necessary
in order to satisfy the following requirements) an amount sufficient to raise the
balance of unencumbered funds in the Revolving Fund immediately after such
deposit to TK750,000 (the reserve for contingencies) plus such amount as shall
be necessary to make all payments estimated, on the basis of the Project
implementation schedule, to become due in the ninety days following such deposit
for the items described in the foregoing paragraphs (a)(i) and (a)(ii); and
(c)   authorize the Project Financial Officer to make withdrawals from the
Revolving Fund for the purpose of making such payments.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and advisors, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, not later than the dates set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement,
for the following purposes:
(a)   to advise and assist the Ministries of Education; Information and
Broadcasting; Labor and Social Welfare; and Local Government, Rural Development
and Co-operatives in carrying out population programs and pilot schemes referred
to in Parts C and D of the Project for which they are responsible and in addition,
in the case of MIB, to advise and staff its Department of Films;
(b)   to assist MOHPP in conducting a comprehensive management study
(more fully described in Section 3.15 of this Agreement), the manpower utilization
study (more fully described in Section 3.14(c) of this Agreement), and in improving
its statistical services;
(c)   to assist BIDS in carrying out the study described in Part E( 1) of
the Project;
(d)   to assist PPD  in planning and evaluation of Project activities, and
carrying out a study of integrated health and population services delivery and the
study of national laws referred to in Part E(5) of the Project and Section 3.06
of this Agreement;


﻿9
(e)   to assist BPDU in carrying out the study described in Section 3.09(d)
of this Agreement, planning and managing the execution of Part A of the Project
and in designing the facilities required; and
(f)   to assist BPDU in carrying out a study of the intensity of use and
adequacy of design of the facilities included in Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to insure the coordinated implementation and
evaluation of the Project, the Borrower shall take all action required to insure
that, at all times:
(i)         the PPD will be enabled to maintain staffing acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)        PPD shall be responsible for overall supervision, coordination and
internal evaluation of Project activities and shall be sufficiently
empowered, and aided by the Borrower's other agencies involved
in the Project, to fulfill this responsibility;
(iii)       PPD shall establish a subventions committee, the responsibilities
of which shall be (A) to identify, appraise and submit to the
Association for its approval proposals, in such detail as the
Association shall request, for population subprojects comprising
Part F of the Project; (B) after approval of any such
subproject by the Association, unless the Association shall
otherwise  agree, to   insure   the  implementation   of such
subprojects in accordance with such proposals as approved and
(C) to evaluate their effectiveness;
(iv)        PPD shall furnish the Association, promptly on their receipt,
any proposals for such subprojects received from the private
sector; and
(v)         the PPD shall at all times be staffed and managed by persons
qualified to insure that the Project will be carried out with
diligence and efficiency; and in particular, the head of PPD shall
have the qualifications and experience required for effective
execution of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all action required to insure that:
(i)         PPS will be enabled to maintain staffing acceptable to the
Association;


﻿10
(ii)        PPS shall establish and implement a system satisfactory to the
Association for evaluation of the various components of the
Project, such evaluation to be carried out outside the agencies
responsible for such components;
(iii)       PPS shall establish study groups on (A) information activities,
education and family planning motivation and (B) evaluation and
research activities; having, in each case, composition and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Association;
(iv)        PPS shall, in consultation with the Borrower's relevant agencies,
allocate funds for the Borrower's population program activities
and determine intrasectoral priorities on the basis of a review
of progress made; and
(v)         PPS shall be responsible for liaison with external agencies in
connection with technical aspects of the population program in
order to insure coordination of the Borrower's agencies involved
in the Project in connection with external assistance.
Section 3.05. In respect of the pilot schemes included in Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall, before implementation of each scheme, obtain the Association's
approval of its plans for: (a) the content, duration and implementation of a training
program for the staff who will carry out such scheme, (b) supervision of operating
staff and (c) the segments of t'-e Borrower's population proposed to be reached
by such scheme. Thereafter, each such pilot scheme shall be implemented in
accordance with such plans, except as the Association shall otherwise agree.
Section 3.06. The PPD shall establish a committee to supervise a study of
the effect of national laws on population growth and to make to the NPC such
recommendations for changes in law as appear appropriate. The terms of reference
for this study shall be acceptable to the Association and shall include inter alia
consideration of changing the law relating to the minimum age for lawful marriage.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall insure that each of its agencies having
responsibility for executing a portion of the Project establish and implement a
system satisfactory to the Association for evaluating the impact and effectiveness
of such agency's population activities.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take steps satisfactory to the Association
to introduce population education as a mandatory subject in the pimary and
secondary school curricula on a nationwide basis not later than January 1979.


﻿11
The Borrower shall, not later than the dates specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, furnish the Association for its review proposed curricula and schedules
t, r implementation (including training of teachers and development of teaching
materials).
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall insure:
(a)   that the BPDU operates in accordance with terms of reference, and
is provided staff, acceptable to the Association so as to enable BPDU inter alia
to exercise time and cost controls over the construction included in Part A of
the Project and to evaluate building designs employed;
(b)   that its Ministry of Public Works extends to BPDU all assistance
required to facilitate the timely completion of Part A of the Project;
(c)   that the BPDU submits to the Association, for the Association's
approval, a master plan for carrying out Part A of the Project including detailed
implementation schedules, preliminary designs and organizational details; and
(d)   that, prior to designing the field training thana health complexes
*         included in the Project, the BPDU carries out a study with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association to determine the most suitable and cost effective
designs and mIethods of construction of such complexes and that the results of
such study are furnished to the Association promptly on its completion.
Section 3.10. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.1 1. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bo.rrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿12
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or adOitions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request. Neither detailed design nor construction of the buildings
described in Part A of the Project shall commence until the Association has
approved preliminary drawings and specifications in respect of them.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Without limitation to the obligations undertaken elsewhere in this
Section, the Borrower shall: (i) insure that Radio Bangladesh maintains records
of broadcast time devoted to population matters by each of its stations indicating
the time of day, duration and nature of the broadcast; and (ii) furnish the
Association  quarterly the following: (A) a detailed progress report on the
construction of the facilities included in Part A of the Project including status
of site selection and acquisition, photographs of sites acquired, receipt of building
materials, furnishings and equipment on site, and expenses incurred; (B)
appointments of consultants and experts, FFWWs, PPOs, staff reporting to PPOs,
staff of PPD and PPS and other employees of the Borrower's agencies devoting
full time to population activities; (C) detailed reports on the status of pilot schemes
and programs, research and evaluation activities included in the Project, indicating
materials produced and agency involved and including brief reports on any
evaluation studies completed; (D) receipt of vehicles and equipment acquired for
purposes of the Project; and (E) Project expenditures by agency and item.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction (and operation) of the facilities included in Part A of the Project
and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
(b)   Such   land  and  rights shall be acquired, and in the Borrower s
possession: (i) for facilities included in Parts A(l) and A(2) of the Project not
later than December 31, 1975, and (ii) for facilities included in Parts A(3), A(4)
and A(5) of the Project not later than April 30, 1976.


﻿13
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall submit to the Association a program,
including a time schedule for its implementation: (i) to recruit and train FWVs
and FFWWs, (ii) to insure that FWVs and FFWWs complete their training and
(iii) to insure that FWVs and FFWWs who complete their training are thereafter
hired and provided adequate incentives to remain in their jobs.
(b)   After consultation with the Association, the Borrower will implement
such a program acceptable to the Association in accordance with a time schedule
acceptable to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall carry out a manpower utilization study in respect
of FWVs and FFWWs, the purposes of which shall be (i) to determine what
functions are being performed by such staff, (ii) to assess the suitability of training,
including curricula, of such staff in view of their intended functions, and (iii) to
recommend any reallocation of functions which may be required. Promptly after
the completion of such study, the Borrower shall furnish the Association its results,
consult with the Association and implement such changes in curricula or functions
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association in accordance with
a time schedule acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall carry out a comprehensive management
study of the MOHPP, including the coordination of MOHPP staff with staff of
other ministries at the field level, with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, and with the assistance of the consultants referred to in Section 3.03(b)
of this Agreement, and shall submit the results of such study to the Association
promptly on its completion. Thereafter, the Borrower shall review with the
Association the results and recommendations of such study and implement such
recommendations as have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association in accordance with a time schedule agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall insure that PPOs devote their full time
to carrying out the Project or, with the Association's consent, other activities in
the Borrower's population program.
Section 3.17. In order to enable the thana health complexes included in
Part A(3) of the Project to realize their full potential as population training facilities,
the Borrower shall: (a) take all action necessary to insure that 25 beds are made
available for maternity, gynecological, sterilization and similar cases, subject only
to demand for beds for such purposes, and (b) increase the capacity of such
complexes to handle cases other than those enumerated in (a) above, through the
provision of additional facilities, to the extent required to insure the availability
of beds for the purposes enumerated in (a) above.


﻿14
Section 3.18. The Borrower and the Association shall, one year after the
Effective Date, carry out a comprehensive review of the administrative and
organizational arrangements affecting the Project with a view to determining
whether any administrative or organizational changes are desirable in order to
accomplish the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, including, without limitation, the information required for
the audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.
())   The Borrower shall (i) for each fiscal year, cause the accounts relevant
to the Project of the departments and agencies responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project to be audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, such
audit to show inter alia (A) the purposes for which Project funds (from whatever
source) have been spent; (B) in the case of expenditures for equipment and supplies:
when the equipment was delivered and how it was utilized; and (C) in the case
of expenditures for salaries and other staff expenses: the staff supported, their
respective duties and the work they have performed; (ii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited,
and (B) such auditors' report; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all action necessary to maintain
the facilities included in Part A of the Project and to insure the provision and
sound administration of the services to be supplied through such facilities.
(b)   Not later than six months prior to the scheduled completion of each
such facility, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a program in respect
of such facility for fulfilling the foregoing requirements.
(c)   After consultation with the Association, the Borrower will implement
plans acceptable to the Association for such maintenance and provision and


﻿15
administration of services in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to maintain the
vehicles and equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in good working
condition during the useful lives of such vehicles and equipment.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the following
additional events are specified pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General
Conditions: the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made
to the Borrower by any Other Participant for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor or the right of the Borrower to
obtain funds pursuant to such agreements shall have failed to become effective
within ninety days after the Effective Date.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
termination is not caused by failure by the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower shall have made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to obtain external grants, loans or credits from Other Participants
amounting in the aggregate to not less than the equivalent of about $25,400,000
for purposes of carrying out the Project;
(b)   the Revolving Fund described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement shall
have been established, on terms satisfactory to the Association, and the Borrower
shall have deposited therein TK750,000;


﻿16
(c)   the PPD: (i) shall have been provided with full-time staff (including
the Project Financial Officer) and facilities and (ii) shall have adopted an
organizational structure, in each case acceptable to the Association;
(d)   PPOs with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association
shall have been appointed in each of the ministries referred to in Part C of the
Project, and arrangements for their training satisfactory to the Association shall
have been made;
(e)   the Borrower shall have provided the Association with a description
of the proposed sites for the facilities described in Part A of the Project, indicating,
in the case of the facilities described in Parts A(1) and A(2) of the Project, the
sites' boundaries and approximate areas, and indicating, in the case of all Part
A facilities, whether the sites have been acquired by the Borrower and if they
have not, the steps already taken, and those proposed to be taken, to acquire
them;
(f)   the BPDU shall have been provided with full-time staff and facilities
satisfactory to the Association, and the Borrower shall have made arrangements
satisfactory to the Association to obtain the services of the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03(e) of this Agreement;
(g)   the NPC shall have been established, with substantially the composition
and functions set out in the Borrower's First Five Year Plan; and
(h)   terms of reference for the study referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement shall have been submitted to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date June 9, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV
of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿17
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning (Planning
Commission) of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
PARIKALPANA
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s!/ M. Hossain Ali
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   (a)   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed,
subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                     4,180,000           60% of total
expenditures
(2)   68 vehicles and                 2,640,000           100% of c.i.f. cost
furniture and                                       or 70% of local ex-
equipment (in-                                      penditures
cluding carriage
and installation
costs) for PPS,
PPD, MIB, nursing
college, model
family planning
clinics, thana
health complexes
and union health
subcenters
(3)   Technical assis-                  430,000           100% of foreign
tance, including                                    expenditures
professional fees
and overseas train-
ing
(4)   Operating costs:                1,830,000           100% of total
expenditures
(a)   PPD and PPS:
Maintenance of ve-
hicles and special
equipment
Office furniture
and supplies


﻿20
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalents)      to be Financed
Salary, local
travel and per
diem allowances
for staff
Publication of
reports
Expenses of
evaluation sur-
veys and special
studies
(b)  MIB:
Maintenance of
vehicles and
special equip-
ment
Office furniture
and supplies
Salary, local
travel and per
diem allowances
for staff
Honoraria, fees
and royalties for
mass media pro-
grams
Publications
Dubbing and copy-
ing of films
Expenses of eval-
uation studies
(c)  MOHPP:
Maintenance of
vehicles and
special equip-
ment


﻿21
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
Office, medical
and surgical
supplies
Salary and per
diem allowances
for staff
(d) BIDS:
Maintenance of
vehicles and
special equip-
ment
Office furni-
ture and supplies
Local travel for
staff
Expenses of
seminars (Part
D(6)(b) of Pro-
ject)
(5)   Support to private                300,000           100% of total
sector and in-                                      expenditures
novative public
sector activities
(6)   Unallocated                     5,620,000
TOTAL         15,000,000
The allocation of the proceeds of the Credit to the categories set out above
reflects the assumption that the Australian Grant will be made available for the
same purposes, and in the same proportions, as the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿22
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the following items,
to be financed by loans or grants from the Other Participants indicated, will not
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit:
Source of
Item                                                     Finance
(1)   7 FWV training                                            NORAD
schools                                                     Grant
(2)   1 FWV training                                           ODM
school                                                      Grant
(3)   One thana                                                 ODM
health com-                                                Grant
plex
(4)   2 union health                                            CIDA
subcenters                                                  Grant
(5)   Pilot projects                                            CIDA
carried out                                                 Grant
by IRDP (Parts
C(l) and (3) of
the Project) and
their evaluation
(6)   Pilot projects                                             German
carried out by                                              Grant
Ministry of Labor
and Social Wel-
fare (Parts C(4),
(5) and (6) of the
Project) and their
evaluation
(7)   Equipment (exclud-                                         German
ing construction                                            Grant
equipment), vehicles,
salaries and opera-
tional expenses for
MOHPP other than
for model family
planning training
clinics (Part A(5)
of the Project) and
thana health com-
plexes (Part A(3) of
the Project)
0


﻿23
Source of
Item                                                    Finance
(8)   Consultants for                                          German
BPDU building                                             Grant
utilization study
(Section 3.03(f))
(9)   Consultants for                                          German
MOHPP (Health Divi-                                       Grant
sion) to improve
service statistics
system (Section
3.03(b))
In addition to the items listed above, items financed out of the proceeds
of the SIDA Grant shail not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. The
Borrower shall insure that this is the case.
(c)   No withdrawals shall be made under Category 5 above in respect of
any population subproject related to innovative activities in the public sector or
any population subproject in the private sector unless: (i) the Association shall
have approved such subproject and (ii) the purpose and amount of the withdrawal
requested accords with the terms of the proposal in respect of such subproject
approved by the Association, as such terms may be amended from time to time.
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿24
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    (a) Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
(b)   If the estimate of the expenditures under Categories 3 or 4 shall
decrease, the amount of the proceeds of the Credit then allocated to such category
or categories and no longer required therefor shall be reallocated by the Association
(subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association) by increasing correspondingly the amounts allocated to Category 1,
2, 4 or 5 and the Association may, at the request of the Borrower, increase
correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100 per cent net of taxes) the percentages
applicable to Category 1 or 2.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to assist the Borrower in launching a
comprehensive program for delivering population services, supporting research into
the determinants of population growth, developing sound means of educating the
public on population matters and changing attitudes toward family size. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
A.    Training and Service Facilities. Constructing, furnishing, equipping and
supporting the following training and service/health/family planning facilities:
(1)   One college of nursing in Dacca having a capacity to graduate at least
60 students annually and facilities suitable for training either (a) tutors to train
nurses or (b) public health nurses;
(2)   Eight FWV training schools attached to district hospitals having the
capacity to graduate at least 60 students each annually and facilities suitable for
training FWVs;
(3)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, eight field training
thana health complexes for the provision of health services and the training of
medical and paramedical peisonnel in family planning including, in each case; (a)
facilities adequate to permit 25 beds to be used for maternity, gynecological,
sterilization and similar cases, (b) an outpatient clinic, (c) training facilities and
dormitories with a capacity of at least 25 medical and FWV trainees and (d) staff
housing;
(4)   24 union-level field training health    subcenters (three each to be
connected to the eight health centers described in the preceding paragraph) having
outpatient clinic facilities and housing for key staff and at least two trainees; and
(5)   Four model family planning training clinics within medical colleges
having (a) the capacity to train the medical students in such colleges and at least
50 practicing physicians per year; (b) a 25 bed ward; and (c) other facilities required
for sterilization, abortion, and outpatient contraceptive services.
B.    FFWWs. Increasing the number of FFWWs by 3,700 by:
(1)   Training at least 3,700 FFWWs; and
(2)   Providing FFWWs' salaries for four years.


﻿26
C.   Pilot Schemes. Establishment (including the provision    of personnel,
equipment, funds and technical assistance) and support of the following pilot
schemes to disseminate information on family planning and to change attitudes
toward family size:
(1)   Model Farmers and Co-operative Managers. Assisting the IRDP in
educating model farmers and agricultural cooperative managers and motivating them
to disseminate family planning information.
(2)  Agricultural Assistants. Assisting the Ministry of Agriculture in
involving agricultural assistants in family planning motivation through family
planning training and provision of bicycles and motivation kits.
(3)  Rural Women's Functional Literacy Program. Assisting the IRDP to
involve women in agricultural cooperatives through teaching readipg, writing and
home economics (including such subjects as sewing, poultry farming and kitchen
gardening).
(4)  Rural Women's Mothers Clubs. Assisting the Ministry of Labor and
Social Welfare in forming 760 mothers clubs for carrying out a program similaf
to that in the preceding subparagraph (3) in respect of wives of landless rural
workers.
(5)   Women's   Vocational Training Program. Assisting the Women's
Rehabilitation Board, a semi-autonomous affiliate of the Ministry of Labor and
Social Welfare, in expanding its vocational training programs (with content similar
to that of the preceding subparagraph (3)) to reach rural women not reached by
the programs described in the preceding subparagraphs (3) and (4).
(6)   Organized Labor. Assisting the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
in introducing family planning and education in three labor welfare centers.
(7)  Mobile Population Education   Team. Assisting the Ministry of
Education in providing population education to teachers in primary and secondary
schools by providing a van, audio visual equipment, funds and training for personnel.
(8)   FFWW   Kits. Assisting the MOHPP (Health Division) in providing
FFWWs with motivation kits for use in educating married women in family planning
matters.
(9)  Audiovisual Vans. Assisting the Mass Media Department of the MIB
in disseminating population and family planning information by providing and
funding the operation of eight daylight cinema vans and related equipment.


﻿27
D.    Program Support for Population Activities. Increasing the capacity of the
following ministries to carry out the population programs described below.
(1)   Population Program Cells. Assisting the MIB by staffing and equipping
cells to produce and broadcast population programs in the Dacca station, and five
regional stations, of Radio Bangladesh.
(2)   Film Department. Assisting the MIB in strengthening the population
related and general capacity of its Department of Films and production and
distribution, with its own resources or, to the extent the Association agrees, through
subcontracting, of at least fourteen films having an aggregate screening time of
five hours and one feature length film on population, and dubbing of six films
on population to fill the gap before local production starts.
(3)   Population Feature Writing Bureau. Assisting the MIB in establishing
a bureau within the Press Information Department to write or produce articles,
features and personal interviews on population matters for use in newspapers,
magazines, radio and television.
(4)   Public Relations Officers. Assisting the MIB in training ninety public
*        relations officers through two-week seminars on population programs, policies and
motivation techniques.
(5)   Curricular Development. Assisting the Ministry of Education in
developing curricula for primary and secondary schools and training teachers to
use such curricula.
(6)   Population Seminars. (a) Assisting the Institute of Education Research
of the Dacca University (under the Ministry of Education) to conduct seminars
on the introduction of population education curricula for primary and secondary
schools teachers and population experts; and (b) assisting BIDS to conduct seminars
on population problems for members of Parliament, political leaders and senior
civil servants.
E.    Research, Evaluation and Technical Assistance.
(1)   Assisting the proposed Population Studies Center at BIDS to study
determinants of reproductive behavior and demography;
(2)   Assisting the Borrower in evaluating population activities;


﻿28
(3)   Assisting the ministries implementing pilot schemes in planning and
evaluating them;
(4)   Assisting the MOHPP in improving its organization in respect of
population activities;
(5)   Carrying out a study of the impact of law on population growtha; and
(6)   Providing fellowships for the overseas training of PPOs.
F.   Innovative and Private Sector Activities. Assisting the PPD in executing
innovative population subprojects in the public sector and population subprojects
in the private sector, agreed to in advance between the Borrower and the
Association.
The numbers given above are approximate. Substantial variations from the
numbers given and changes in the institutional arrangements described may be made
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 1979.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    (a) Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
(b)   All procurement will be based on bidding packages (consisting of
related contracts bulked to attract the interest of international suppliers) prepared
in consultation with the Association.
2.    In respect of the civil works included in Part A of the Project:
(a)   Bidders for such works shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2
of the Guidelines.
0                (b)   Invitations to prequalify shall be sufficient if advertised in newspapers
of general circulation in Bangladesh and if copies of such invitations or
advertisements are transmitted promptly to local representatives of member
countries of the Association and Switzerland which could supply the services
required.
3.    (a)   Contracts for goods estimated to cost $10,000 or less shall be let
pursuant to such reasonable procedures as are appropriate under the circumstances,
provided the aggregate amount of contracts so let shall not exceed $100,000.
(b)   Procurement of services of salaried staff of the Borrower or its agencies
shall not be subject to the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the


﻿30
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Bangladesh if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.


﻿31
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
I.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
I.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final cor- .acts:


﻿32
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bid s.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the A7sociation of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report (and, in the case of civil works included in Part A of the Project
such a report by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03(e) of this Agreement)
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award (including, in the case of civil works included in Part
A of the Project, the recommendation of such consultants) and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit


﻿33
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿34
SCHEDULE 4
Timetable for Project Implementation
(Section 3.01 (b)(ii))
Date for Completion                 Action to be Completed
April 30, 1975                      Establishment of the NPC (Section 6.01(h))
PPD provided with full-time staff, facilities
and organizational structure acceptable to
the Association (Section 6.01(c))
BPDU provided with full-time staff, consultants
and facilities acceptable to the Association
(Section 6.01(f))
Arrangements satisfactory to the Association made
between Borrower and Other Participants
concerning financial assistance to Project
(Section 6.01(a))
Establishment of Revolving Fund satisfactory
to the Association (Section 6.01(b))
Appointment of PPOs and arrangements for local
and foreign training of PPOs made (Section 6.01(d))
Terms of reference for study of national laws
submitted to the Association (Section 3.06)
Submission of schedule for the production and
availability of 14 family planning films
Submission to the Association of a description of
the proposed sites for the facilities described
in Part A of the Project and status of their
acquisition (Section 6.01(e))
July 31, 1975                        Study groups referred to in Section 3.04(b)(iii)
established by PPS
Initiation of study of national laws (Section 3.06)
Initiation of MOHPP management study (Section 3.15)
Submission to the Association of plan for
recruiting, training and retaining FWVs and
FFWWs (Section 3.14)


﻿35
Date For Completion              Action to be Completed
July 31, 1975                     Completion of local and foreign training of
PPOs unless the Association is satisfied that
no appropriate arrangements for foreign
training can be made to meet such date
Order of vehicles and equipment for pilot
schemes to be initiated in the first year and
for MIB
August 31, 1975                  Staff sufficient to initiate pilot schemes in
about 30 thanas in place
September 30, 1975               Study of thana health complex design completed
December 31, 1975                Proposed curricula and schedule for the
introduction of population education in classes
6, 7 and 8 submitted to the Association
(Section 3.08)
Land for facilities included in Parts A(1) and
A(2) of the Project acquired and in Borrower's
possession (Section 3.13(b))
Master plan for carrying out Part A of the Project
submitted to the Association (Section 3.09(c))
Order of vehicles and equipment for pilot schemes
for the remaining thanas
1,500 FFWWs fully trained and appointed
Completion of MOHPP management study
March 31, 1976                    1,500 additional FFWWs fully trained and
appointed
April 30, 1976                   All sites for facilities included in Part A of
the Project acquired and in Borrower's possession
(Section 3.13(b))
June 30, 1976                    700 additional FFWWs fully trained and appointed
August 31, 1976                  Staff sufficient to initiate pilot schemes in
remaining thanas in place
December 31, 1976                Submission to NPC of recommendations for changes
in national laws resulting from study referred
to in Section 3.06


﻿36
Date for Completion                 Action to be Completed
December 31, 1976                   Proposed curricula and schedule for the
introduction of population education in classes
4, 5, 9 and 10 submitted to the Association
(Section 3.08)
December 31, 1977                  Proposed curricula and schedule for the
introduction of population education in
classes 11 to 14 inclusive submitted to
the Association (Section 3.08)
January 31, 1979                   Population education introduced nationwide in
the primary and secondary school curricula
3 months after                      Committee referred to in Section 3.04(a)(iii)
Effective Date                      established
Population program cell of Radio Bangladesh
fully staffed and in operation
8 months after                     Population Feature Writing Bureau (Part D(3)
Effective Date                      of the Project) fully operative
Appointment of auditors (Section 4.01(b)) and
assistants to the Project Financial Officer
(Section 3.04(a)(v))
4-1/2 years after                  Completion of all facilities included in Part A
Effective Date                      of the Project


﻿37
SCHEDULE 5
Schedule for Evaluation and Other Studies
(Section 3.01 (b)(iii))
Agency Responsible
Starting  Completion            (except as otherwise
Studies                        Date       Date           agreed with the Association)
1.   Evaluation of at-
titudes and col-
lection of statis-
tics in 4 concen-
trated thanas:
a.    Baseline sur-            6/75      10/75           PPD
vey
b.    First follow-           10/76       4/77           PPS
up survey
c.    Second follow-          10/77       4/78           PPS
up survey
2.    Evaluation of pilot
schemes in other
thanas:
a.    Baseline sur-                                      PPD in collaboration with
veys in about                                      following Ministries:
30 thanas
(i)        Women's             9/75        3/76          Ministry of Local Gov't,
functional                                   Rural Dev't and Coop's
literacy prog.;
use of model
farmers and
coop. managers
(ii)       Use of agric.       9/75       3/76           Ministries of Agric. and
extension                                    Labor and Social Welfare
workers and
mothers' clubs
(iii)      Mobile popu-        9/75       3/76           MOHPP (Health Division)
lation educa-                                Ministry of Education
tion team and
motiv. kits for
FFWWs
(iv)       Women's voca-       9/75       3/76           Ministry of Labor and
tional train-                                Social Welfare
ing program


﻿38
Agency Responsible
Starting  Completion           (except as otherwise
Studies                       Date       Date          agreed with the Association)
(v)        Use of             9/75       3/76          MIB
audiovisual
vans
(vi)       Population         9/75       3/76          Ministry of Labor and
program for                                 Social Welfare
organized
labor
b.    First follow-up         10/76      4/77          PPS
survey in respect
of (a) above
c.    Baseline sur-          10/76       4/77          PPD in collaboration with
vey for remain-                                   relevant Ministries
ing thanas
d.    Second follow-         10/77       4/78          PPS
up survey in
respect of (a)
above and first
follow-up sur-
vey in respect
of (c) above
3.    Other Studies
a.    Evaluation of           1 year    6 months       PPD
model clinics         after      after com-
commence- mencement
ment of    of study
opera-
tion
b.    Performance of        Same as    Same as         PPD
field training          3(a)       3(a)
thana health
complexes
c.    MOHPP manpower          1/76      12/76          PPD
utilization
study
d.    Performance of          1/77       6/77          PPD
FFWWs and their
male counter-
parts


﻿39
Agency Responsible
Starting  Completion          (except as otherwise
Studies                       Date       Date          agreed with the Association)
e.    Survey on com-          6/75      12/76          PPD
pleteness of
couple regis-
tration system
f.    Survey of ac-           6/76      12/76          PPD
ceptor and non-
acceptor charac-
teristics
g.    Survey of as-           1/78       6/78          MIB
sessment of mass
media impact
h.    Primary and             6/79      12/79          Ministry of Education
secondary school
curriculum as-
sessment
i.    Evaluation of           1/76       6/76          PPS
integrated de-
livery of ser-
vices by MOHPP
(Health Division)
j.    Overall Pro-            1/78       6/78          PPS
ject review
k.   Thana health             4/75      10/75          BPDU
complex de-
sign study
1.    Building                1/79      12/79          BPDU
utilization
study
m.    Determinants            7/75       6/78          BIDS
of fertility
study


﻿40
SCHEDULE 6
List of Advisors and Consultants;
Commencement and Duration of Appointment
(Section 3.03)
Commence-
ment of Ap-                             Agency and Project
Advisor or Consultant        pointment        Duration              Component Involved
1.   Rural develop-            9/75            1 man-year        Ministry of Local Gov't, Rural
ment communica-                                            Dev't & Coop's (model farmers
tions advisor                                              & cooperative managers; women's
functional literacy program)
2.   Communications            9/75           6 man-months       Ministry of Labor & Social Welfare
advisor for popu-                                          (population program for organized
lation program                                             labor)
for organized
labor
3.   Communications            9/75           6 man-months       Ministry of Labor & Social Welfare
advisor for                                                (mothers' clubs)
mothers' clubs
4.   Curriculum de-            9/75          12 man-months       Ministry of Education (curriculum
velopment &                                                 development & teacher training)
teacher training
advisor
5.   Communications            6/76*          6 man-months       MIB (all schemes under MIB)
advisor for mass
media activities
6.   Advisor for               3/76*          6 man-months       MIB (Dept. of Films)
installation of
processing labor-
atories
7.   Service sta-              9/75          12 man-months       MOHPP (Health Division) (family
tistics ad-                                                 planning service statistics)
visor
8.   Management                7/75          12 man-months       PPD
consultant
9.    Senior resi-             9/75            2 man-years       BIDS
dent research
advisor for
fertility
studies
10.  Senior re-                9/75           6 man-months       BIDS
search advisor
for fertility
studies
11.  Research as-              9/75            1 man-year        BIDS
sociate for
fertility
studies
*     Or promptly after receipt of imported equipment


﻿41
Commence-
ment of Ap-                            Agency and Project
Advisor or Consultant       pointment        Duration             Component Involved
12.  Junior re-               9/75           4 man-months          BIDS
search advisor
for fertility
studies
13.  Advisor for              7/75          12 to 24 man-          PPD
planning for                           months
implementation
and evaluation
of pilot schemes
14.  Advisors for             1/78          15 man-months          PPD
overall Project
review
15.  Consultants              7/75           6 man-months          PPD
for study of
effect of
country's laws
on population
growth
16.  Advisor for             10/75           6 man-months          PPD
evaluation of
integrated de-
livery of services
17.  MOHPP manpower         10/75           12 man-months          PPD
utilization
study
18.  Construction             4/75          24 to 36 man-          BPDU
management con-                       months
sultant and
executive archi-
tects
19.  Consultants            10/78           24 to 36 man-           BPDU
for building                          months
utilization
study


