2jo { /4,/ -aL/3
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1.t.jOFIL.HE t'-PY
--,p r t N). :;14 C.5--n! A  T[pe: (5AR)                   Report No. 11405-ALB
T it 1 e:  R[tJRL POVURTY ALL FI T TION P i 1J C'
AuthoSr . C' SULL IV(N2, RfAY
F,.t.: 17',62 forno:Hi1('  4,  Dept. :EC2gW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVETY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 2, 1993
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofllcW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorizailon.



CURRU'JCY EO AIJSALE
Currency Unit = IL
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Lek per US$)
Jan-Aug    Sept-Dec  Jan-June    Nov
1987-90    1991       1991      192,      1992
US$1.00 - lek         8.00     10.00      25.00     50.00     90-100
VIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
ABAD   Albanian Bank for Agricultural Development
EC   European Community
Ha   Hectares
IFDC   International Fertilizer Development Center
MTS   Machine Tractor Station
NGO   Son-Governmental Organization
RDF   Rural Development Fund



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
RULAL POVRIT ALLEVIATIONPILOT PROjni.i
RTAW£ APRASAL DREzRT
Tbb Of C bonts
Cred and Pojet SUma    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .(i)-(
L  U#?MODU1=BN               . . .               . .1                                             
11. ALANIS RURAL SECTR  .                  . . . . . . . . .              . 2
A. Main Features of the Rural Sector ..   . . . 2
S. The Impact of Land Reforms Return to Subsistence Farming    . . .   3
C. Thel Safety Net an Rural Areas . . . ........................ ...  4
D. Local aovernmnt in Transition   .                       ..  .5... . S
B. Deterioration of Rural Infrastructure and Natural Resources . . . . S
IIL THE GOVERNMMENS RURAL POVERTY AlLEVIATION PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . 7
A. Overall Strategy  ......  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  . ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
S. The Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a
C. Methodology: A Particlpatlve Process Approach . . . . . . . . . . . 12
D. Implementat.ons Creating a Rural Development Fund . . . . . . . . . 13
Z. Rationale for lDA Involvement      ............ . 17
P. Applicable Lessons fro Bank/IDA lxperience  ....  .     .  .  .   ... .  17
IV. THE PROJEC:r THE RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM'S PILOT PHASE  . 18
A. Project Objeatives  . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
B. Project Descr4ption and Components   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
C. Prograa_lng An4 Dstribution of Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
0. Pilot Project Costs . .  .....           .        .22
B3. fnancang Plan for the Pilot Phae ............... . 22
P. Procurment  . . . . . . . . ...................  23..      .       . 23
0. Disbursements   .             . .. ..  . .25
H. supervision Id Reporting       . .........................     .     . . . ......26
I. Accounts and Audits . . .      .................... . 26
J. Benefits and RLisks  . . . . . . ............... . . . . . 2626
V. AGRUMEIS REACHED AND RECOZMENDAON  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Annex 1  oovernment Decision Zstablishing the Albanian Rural Development Fund
Annex 2   . . .    . . . . . .   . .  . . Draft Rural Development Fund Regulations
Annx 3.    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rural Works Project PrLorLties
Annex 4   ... .  . . . Targeting Methodology For Ral Works Cmponent
Annex 5. . . . . . . . Albanian Rural Development Program:  Credit Component
Annex 6. . . . . . .              . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . Bstlmated Project Costs
Annex7.. . . . . . . . .stLiated Disbursement schedule
Annex 8. .          . . Studies, Technology, Technlcal Assistance and TraLnLng
Annex9 . . . . . Lessns tuearned fro the Bank's Experience with Social Funds
Maria Novak (Ral Develop_mt Specaiut MC2AW) we th Task Mangr, amisted by ?iee-Mam
ewand, Koad Elms, and Joost Polak (Co1t). Aadw  Mr (AFITW and Michae Nihtinaple
(MN2AG)we the po pw mviwe  Th Diviion Chief is Rosy OSHvan (SCZAW), and the Dertmt
Dimtr Kel Dew (EC2DR).
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMclal dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



RURAL PmJERTY AllEVIATION PMIMT PROJECT
ChoPtand PaIed t S mnn
Government of Albania
C>dut Axnouot        8DR 1.80 million (US$2.4 million equivalent)
Standard, with 40 years maturity
p"zS                 The proposed pilot project's objective is to help the
Qbh"frjof            Government begin implementing its Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program by establishing and making operational an autono-
mous Rural Development Fund and testing approaches in rural
public works and small-scale credit. The Program has three
main objectivess (a) to create employment for the rural
population and inject cash resources into rural households,
(b) to repair basic rural infrastructure, and (c) to use
small-scale credit to promote private sector activities and
help create a rural market economy. It would also provide
feedback for developing a rural policy and the on-going
local government and finance reform, and implement a new
economic and financial approach at the local level.
froM                 Within the general objectives of Albania's Rural Poverty
Demflp0              Alleviation Program, the proposed pilot project would test
approaches to the implementation of the Program during its
first year of operations. It would:
(a) Create the institutional capacity needed for program
implementation by establishing the Rural Development Fund
(RDF) and training a first group of local staff.
(b) Develop RDFIs operational procedures and mechanisms of
technical and financial control.
(c) Evaluate, design, finance, and implement approximately
142 rural infrastructure projects, and establish and fund
some 50 village credit funds.
(d) Establish and implement, using technical assistance as
necessary, training programs to improve local capacity to
identify, appraise, and implement small public works
projects; the ability of village credit funds to evaluate
and administer small loans, and programs to transfer appro-
priate technology to farmers and small rural entrepreneurs.
mmmi:                The project's direct and immediate benefits would come from
the rural works projects it would finance and the S,000
small loans expected to be disbursed from the village



-ii-
funds. Wages paid workers on infrastructure subprojects
would also inject much-needed &s,h into Albania's rural
economy*
The project's monitoring and evaluation components would
result in further benefits by providing feedback to adjust
and shape the countrywide Rural Poverty Alleviation Pro-
gram.
RBIah                The main risks are comon to social or rural development
funds, and include start-up problems, weak local institu-
tional capacity, and political interference. Test and pre-
pilot phases that included significant input from the
commune and village levels should greatly reduce project
start-up problems. While local, particularly commune,
organizations are weak, the experience of the pre-pilot
phase shows that good professional staff are available and
training and technical assistance should provide them
adequate support as institutional strength is built up.
RDF's autonomous status will help prevent political inter-
ference. The other major risk is inherent to the learning
by doing aspect of the pilot project; this would be min-
imized by strong supervision and technical assistance sup-
ported by built-in monitoring and feedback components.
Estmad  rme  Costs
Local        Foreign        Total
---S---------S'000…
Rural Works               1,510.5          79.5         1,590.0
Small-Scale Credit          675.0          75.0           750.0
Studies, Technology
and Training               153.7         212.3           366.0
Equipment for RDF             18.4        350.6           369.0
RDF Recurrent Costs         478.5         195.5           674.0
Technical Assistance        3SS.6         660 4         12016-0
TOTAL                   3,191.7       1,573.3         4,765.0
maludag rim,              (US$ nmion)
IDA (SDR 1.80 million)                2.4
EC                                    2.0
UNDP                                  Qs4
TOTAL                               4.8
hAmated IDA   smeantsk
FY93       FY94         FY95
- ------US$ million------
Annual                  0.2          1.0         1.2
Cumulative              0.2          1.2         2.4
Ecomomie Rate of Rethujj   Not applicable.
MMa IBRD 24351



RURAL POVERT- 1  ALL
STAFF Sffi PPOL
L IVTRODUCTnON
1.1 Albania is the poorest country in Europe - 1992 CDP per capita is likely
to be below US$400. The 45 years of highly autocratic central planning that
ended in 1990 have left its 3.3 million people with a stagnant economy caught in
a low level productivity trap. Economic and political turmoil at the beginning
of the decade led to the breakdown of the centrally planned economy and the
election in March 1992 of a fully democratic government dedicated to continuing
and expanding the economic and social reforms begun in 1991. A macroeconomic
framework for those reforms was established in August 1992 when the Government
embarked on a stabilization and restructuring program under an IMF Standby
Arrangement. While the reform program can, if successful, lay the foundation for
significant medium-term growth, its initial phases will cause considerable
hardship a large segment of Albania's people, 65% of whom live in the rural
areas.
1.2  Revolution and reform have transformed Albania s rural population, changing
some 380,000 collectivized agricultural worker families into a new class of
private land owners whose average holding is a very small 1.4 ha per family.
While these new farmers have great potential for productivity and income growth,
they face a daunting set of obstacles. Many of their tiny new holdings - often
scattered among two or three plots - are too small to provide the food needed to
foed a family unless credit is available to buy inputs and other supplies.
Roads, electric lines, water supply and irrigation systems, and other rural
infrastructure, already in poor shape under the old government, were devastated
during the revolution - which also destroyed the rural organizations in charge
of infrastructure development ano maintenance.   The network of economic
infrastructure - input suppliers, and transport, market, and credit mechanisms
- that was dominated by state-owned enterprises is in disarray, or has
disappeared.
1.3  The Government's immediate objective in agriculture is restoring production
to assure food security while providing the rural employment and incomes that
will be the key to economic recovery in the sector. It has already taken
significant steps on the macroeconomic side - culminating in the August 1992
Standby Arrangemnt with the IMF - and has removed price controls from all but
four items: wheat and flour, sugar, rice, and vegetable oil, freed almost all
agricultural prices and removed import and export restrictions. Because of the
critical food supply situation and market imperfections, price and trade
liberalization for these key foodbasket items - now largely provided through
donor aid - will need to be phased in. In July 1992 the government substantially
raised prices for these commodities, though the new prices were held below world
market levels to mitigate their effects on consumers; it recognizes the need to
liberalize them completely in the mediun term to induce a supply response.
1.4    However time will be needed for the Government's reform program to bear
fruit. The proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project would address the
immediate emergency of lack of income in the rural areas through a rural public
works program that will provide a source of desperately needed income to farm
families while rebullding basic infrastructure. it would also provide village-
based credit for small-scale economic activities, studies that will help the



-2-
Government develop rural development policies, appropriate technology develop-
ment, and training.
IL ALIBNIANS RURAL SECrOR
A. MIan Ebm osOf ft  Rid Setor
2.1 Albania in predominantly an agricultural countryp 6S% of its popu3*tion
lives in rural areas. The agricultural sector, which generated close to 35% of
GDP during the 1980s, and 40% in 1991, accounts for more than 50% of employment.
About 705,000 people were employed in agriculture and forestry in 1990, and an
additional 100,000 in related sectors.
2.2  Food and industrial crops lead agrlcultural productlon with 38S of output;
the other major subsectors are livestock (27%), and fruits and olives (5%).
Forage and forestry products account for the remainder. The maln food crop. are
wheat and maize; Lidustrial crops. are led by tobacco, sunflower seeds, cotton and
sugar beets.
2.3  The principal feature of the rural sector is the scarcity of land in
relation to the rural population. The area of agricultural land per family
varies from 0 6 ha in the Puke District to 2 8 ha in Kolonje; the nationwide
average li 1 4 ha per family (Annex 4, Table 1). Almost 900,000 ha of natural and
improved pasturage are, however, avallable for livestock production to supplement
agrlcultural incomes. Although a signifLcant reclamation program has lncreasd
arable land from 400,000 ha in 1950 to 702,000 ha, and irrigation development has
been extensive, population growth - encouraged by government policy - has been
even more dramatic, and the number of Albanians rose from 1.2 mllion in 1950,
to 3.3 mllion in 1990.
Zalg_ll   RURAL HOLDINGS AND INCOMES IN ALBANIA
Avo Holdina Per Famil    Per Caita Aaricultural
(ha)-!                    (ncom  (1986 lek)
Nationwide                1.4                       3,933
Coastal Districts         1.44                      4,624
Mountain Districts        1.22                      2,623
(of whlch, 10 poorest)    1.10                      2,326
80urces 1991 StatLstical Yearbook of Albania, Ministry of Finance and
Economy, Statistics Department
1/Projected holding per famlly after June/July 1992 land distribution.
2.4  The second major feature of the rural sector stems from Albania's
geography. Most of the country beyond the coastal plain (57% of arable land) is
hilly or mountainous (43%); in these regions only valleys are available for the
development of agrLculture, when they are not occupled by kines or heavy
industry. The old central planning system stressed income equalisation, using
prlce subsidies to raise incomes in disadvantaged agricultural regions.
According to their location in plains, hLily or mountain area, agricultural
cooperatives and state farms were charged a decreasing price for inputs and



-3-
recelvd an increasing price for production.1  Thus, ariculture in the hilly
and mountain areas was heavily subsdized.
3L e Mm lma of Ld Bib= Rd= to Snbuisda  anaIg
2.5 Until 1991 agricultural production was dominated by the cooperatives -
which held 76% of arable land - and state farm, with 24%. The cooperatives,
using fund allocated by the central goverment, had an Important role in rural
Lnfrastructur investmnt, accounting for a third of natiaml invostmet in ruwal
construction (irrigation, farm buildings, tfeder roads, etc.) ad halt of
national lnvestmnt in land improW _em    (land reclamation* water and soil
conservation, permanent drainage, etc.). The cooperatives also undertook almost
all maintenance of rural infrastructure. Their dissolution in 1991 has left a
vacuum in infrastructure development and maintenance that the Government is
moving to fill by developing local organizations.
2.6 Agricultural inputs were distributed by state enterprises (Agro-Tregtare).
MechanizatLon services were provided to the cooperatives by the state-owned
Machine Tractor Stations (ZTS). The state ensured agricultural marketing and
processing. Govermnent privatized the cooperatives and distributed their land*
to cooperative workers in 1991; it is still drawing up a privatization program
for the state farms and agricultural state enterprises.
2.7  The 1991 land reform led to the creation of 380,000 small farms: the
average allocation was 1.4 ha per family (Annex 4, Table 1), but in tour of the
13 mountain districts it falls below 1.0 ha, far below subsistence level2.
While the land reform has been carried out rapidly and efficiently - only 10% of
the ex-cooperative land remains to be distributed - nothing has been done to
provide the new private farmers with working capital, except to dlitribute, in
a very uneven way, the assets of the cooperatives. Thus, the farms lack basic
inputs, and it has been reported that 90% of farmrs did not use fertiliser in
1991/923. They have little equipment, and most of those who use mechanical
cultivation hire Ws services to disc and plow their fields.   While the
Government intends to privatize the tractor stations, the small sizo of the new
private holdings will also require significant changs in mechanization
approaches. The same kind of structural change is needed to adapt irrigation
systems to the new land-ownership structure.
2.8  On the market side, the situation is not much better. Although the state
collection centers (GrumbullLmW) still exist, only 5% of private wheat production
was delivered to them in 1992. Because of the small size of plots and the
uncertain economic and institutional environment, most farmer are subsistence-
oriented and prefer to keep their wheat and make their own bread. They are also
unwilling to specialize according to thelr comparative advantage, or to grow
agroindustrial crops that require off-farm processing.
j/tn Jwe 1"1, the pre wor paid und th flttlowing conitioms:
cofficient for friuts   price for cetls(leWquintal)
tam area           100                210
hilly ares          91                2
muntain             85                320
&I TM ptlmd dissolution of the state fatm will not make r lan atable for foo eativ
wrkerws  they are ostly in differnt eas and their tln resuces ore tlkely to be distriuted to state
fa1m wokrkes.
3/00OC, "*ertf iter in Albanfa: Situation, Analysis, and Recomasndations,N February 199.



-4-
2 9  The first impact of the land reform has been, therefore, a regression
toward subsistence farming. Three steps must be taken to reverse this trend and
begin the transition to a market economys
(i) Employment outside agriculture must be created to provide income to
rural families and reduce their dependency on their farm plots so that a
process of consolidation into more economic units can begin4;
(il) Credit must be made available to give rural households access to the
capital they need to develop both on- and off-farm enterprises; and
(1ii) Rural infrastructure must be re-established; this must include the
development of a new rural market structure.
C lhe Safeb Net In Rurad Ams
2.10 The new private agricultural soctor'e regression toward subsistence farming
has left most farming families, with the exception of some in the more productive
plains, unable to build sufficient stocks to survive through the 1992/93 winter
until the next harvest, mainly because of lack of access to inputs and credit;
many farms in hilly and mountain areas cannot meet their food needs for more than
three to five months. The Government is fully aware of this problem and has set
up a rural safety net based on two programs:
A land-based compensation program included in the Land Reform Act.
The amount of benefit depends on the per capita land allocation and
the fertility of the land. The program reaches less than 98 of
Albania's rural population and is limited to hilly and mountain
areas. The amount paid monthly varies from lek 60 to l-k 120 per
person, but many eligible beneficiaries are not yet getting these
stipends because of unclear land titles or because funds have not
arrived in their districts;
A wheat subsidy that was initially intended for the whole country,
with the level of subsidy depending on location. This program has
been put into effect- only in mountain and hilly areas, and wheat is
being dispensed without regard to income levels or holding sizes.
In some districts part of the subsidized wheat has vanished in
transport.
2.11 The safety net program was revised in October 1992 to target it toward
landless families and farms with less than 2,000o2 per capita. The new program
excludes families that have members with full or part-time employment outside
agrlculture. While the number of beneficiaries is about the same as the 185,000
covered by the earlier land-based program, the budgetary impact of the combined
program is considerably les than the lek 100 million a month spent on its
predecessors.
2 12 Although similar income support programs have been used in other countries
(e.g., in Ireland durlng the 1930s), it is clear that Albania's budget resources
are too meager to provide this support through subsidies for an extended period.
A significant change in the socioeconomic situation of the people living in the
*/thts reastrwturins is not likely to take plim before 3 to, yw5 as the Land Refora Act doe not allow
fMrs to selt thir land, prectuding vol&tuary conoltdation thrwoh private transactions. sefore
lntrodocln a land market, th govempnt Intencs to cuptet. the reistry and c eqt. former land
ONers.



-5-
mountain ares is necessary. Programs need to be introduced that combine poverty
alleviation with economic development while moving away from pure gubgidy
programs. The Program described in Chapter 3 would achieve this. It is likely
that in the medium term, the only solution for some of the more poorly endowed
mountain areas Is migration of a part of the population and specialization of
those remaining in livestock, especially sheep and goat breeding that takes
advantage of extensive community grazing areas.
D. Loal Govmen In Trason
2.13 In addition to its direct effect on land distributLon, dismantling the
cooperatives had a secondary effect on the management of local resources and the
organization of rural life. The cooperatives had been established in 1946 as a
voluntary program and expanded - and quickly made mandatory - to cover the whole
country by the late 19609. The cooperative policy's main ebjectives were to
organize a collective system of production and replace the traditional local
government system - which had successfully withstood four centuries of Ottoman
rule - with centralized authority. The process had a positive side in that the
new system took charge of developing and ma4 ntaining rural infrastructure. The
share of the cooperatives in rural infrastzu. are investment was very important.
Over 1985-90 roughly 1/3 of national investment related to rural construction
(irrigation, farm buildings feeder roads) and half of national investment related
to land (land reclamation water and soil conservation, permanent drainage) was
undertaken by the cooperatives. This shows the vacuum left by the dismantling of
zhe cooperatives and the urgent necessity to build new institutional and
financial solutions for rural infrastructure maintenance and development.
2.14 The June 1992 local government reform abolished the old centrally oriented
organization. The number of districts was increased from 27 to 36 to diffuse the
regional distribution of power. The 530 "joined villages" created under the old
regime have been replaced by 314 slightly larger "communes." The 2,700 village
councils have been abolished, but Parliament enacted in Se.-tember 1992 a
complimentary bill providing for the election of village chairmen, who would not
be members of commune councils, but would be responsible for articulating village
needs to those councils.   The institutional gap created by dismantling the
cooperatives has not yet been filled, and the organization of commune services
is still underway. Although the legal situation is not yet clear, management of
local resources (irrigation, pasture, forests) and maintenance of local
infrastructure is expected to become the responsibility of the communes and their
constituent villages.
L  Deterioadon of Rul nfrastucture ad Natural Resources
2.15 Albania's rural areas face particularly acute problems as regards rural
infrastructure and natural resource degradation.   The cost/efficiency ratio of
public investment under the previous system was low for several reasons. A lack
of financial evaluation and cost-plus reimbursement for projects led to expensive
and capital-intensive technical designs. Compulsory labor led to low execution
standards, while the state enterprises carrying out the projects had high
administrative costs and margins. A scarcity of budget resources stretched the
entire investment process, and led to poor maintenance that was exacerbated by
a lack of user interest in preserving what was seen as state property and a
minimal investment in the protection of natural resource*.
2.16 Albania's already poor ruraml infrastructure was severely damaged during
the unrest in 1990, and there was considerable scavenging of materials for
private use. The present situation can be summarized as follows:



Roads: Around 10,000 km of rural roads need to be rehabilitated. They
are maLnly dirt roads connecting village. and communes, and many are
seasonal roads that cannot now be used in winter. They are, however,
essential to the village inhabitants and for the development of effective
rural markets.   These roads were a village responsibility and were
maintained with bulldozers from the now defunct cooperatives. SettLig up
a new structure to rehabilitate them and keep them maintained is an urgent
necessity.
Water *uDMlys A national village water supply scheme was begun in the
19809 with the goal of aupplying all villages one tap per 60 people by
1992. All but 400 of scme 2,700 villages now have systems, but a third of
these systems need rehabilitation or extension.
Enjovsg  While rural areas were electrified 20 years ago, power per
household is limited to 200 watt-, which is only enough to provide light.
about 25% of Albania's 30,000 km electricity network has been destroyed.
Besides immediate repair of the electrical network, the system's capacity
needs expansion.
Irriaations The irrigation infrastructure, which includes 313,000 ha that
have been distributed to private farmers, is one of the agricultural
sector's major capital assets. Here also, the dissolution of the
cooperatives created a organizational vacuum. The subsector needs to be
rehabilitated, adapted to the new land structure and reorganized on the
basis of water user associations.
Telecommunications:   Albania has 1.4 telephones per 100 inhabitants
compared with 10 per 100 in Hungary and 38 in Greece. While each village
had at least one telephone, a large part of the network was destroyed
during the land reform, as farmers used telephone wires to fence the new
property boundaries. At least 1,000 villages no longer have telephone
access.
Schoossa Most of the schools in the rural areas are in poor physical
condition. Moreover, during the unrest in 1990 around 875 village schools
were damaged, and about 50 burned, while in urban areas the destruction
was limited.
Mrket Infrastratures Most cooperative buildings have been destroyed and
there is a great need for small murketplaces with adequate facilities for
live animals and perishables, such as stalls, weighing stations, and
cleaning equipment.
Afforestation   Forests cover 1 million ha, 48% of Albania's land area.
Forests close to villages provided fuelwood and timber for the villages
under the supervision of the cooperatives, which controlled some 60% of
the forests. Since the dissolution of the cooperatives there has been no
control over farmer wood cutting.
Water and Soil ConservatLon: Works have been carried out over the
last 40 years over an estimated 400,000 ha. These works were mainly to put
new land under cultivation, and little, if an,, attention was paid to
environmental concerns. In areas of high slope some of these works
increased erosion problems when fragile soils were put under cultivation.



7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2.17 Repairing and rehabiltating rural lafratructure iL both, thus, an urgent
necessity and an employment oortunity for the rural population.
IlL TM GOVERNMTS  RURAL POVEY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
A. Q  SW"
3 1  The October 1992 World Bank-IC  report *An Agricultural ftrategy for
Albania" ldentlfLes the maln short- and mdium-term measurea required in price
and trade policy, land market, privatlsation of the state farms and state
enterprises, and rural fLaance.  The Government has endorsed the report'
analyaLs, and to complement the policy changes called for in the strategy, li
formulating a comprehensive rural development approach aimed at rebuLlding the
rural economy - on a free-market basls - from the bottom up. The program has
emphasized poverty alleviation. Thli rural development approach seeks to
integrate and improve the programs already in place and develop and implement new
programs to flll in the gaps while assasting farm families through a difficult
transltion process. The strategy focuses ons
Acetlvely all.viatlng rural poverty: The first challenge for the
Ju" Government ln the rural sector is to develop employment and food
* '"";sproduction. Sven if emigration prospects improve and the services
sector expands, the rural sector will havo to absorb a large part
of the AlbanLan labor force for at least the next few years. Given
the very high land/labor ratlo, this means the development of off-
farm full- and part-time actLvities.
Restorlng food security: While Albania is givLng no consideration
to returning to its old policy of food self-suffLciency, it
recognizes that incentive mechanisms, adequate physical infra-
structure, and working food processing and transport systems must
be established to restart the food production and marketing chain.
Price and tarlff policies that will address the problem at a
mAcroeconomic level must be supplemented with programs that help
small farmers intensLfy production of cereals and other basic foods
to cover their own needs and produce surpluses to feed the cities.
A significant factor in this process will be the injection of cash
resources into the rural economy.
*    Promoting the smll private sectors  PrLvatizing state enterprises
will requlre time, capital, and management capabilitLes. Privatiza-
tlon must be complemented by a self-employmont policy that helps
people not to fall out of the employment market so that they have
to be supported by the safety net. This pollcy would help prepare
for the coming market economy in whlch most of the services up- and
downstream of agrLculture will be prlvate.
*     Repatirng baslc rural lafrastructure: Adeqruate rural infrastructure
is a procondition for economLc and soclal development. A large part
of thLi rohabLlitation work can be done under the aegis of the
-  communes using local labor and generating local incomes.
2 An Agrifutltual Sector Stnmctwt dJustmt Credft, tbich tos beirl prepued, wfilt focu on feplementfng
the cwrrspnwfia sectoral polefes suppwted by a hybrid lownf hat will neludc a qLuick disbursfri
coepont anda co*pmot altecated to apfeulttal credit.



Strengthening local governmentst  The main weakness of the newly
created communes is thelr lack of financial resources and experilence
in financial and economic management. Making financial resources
t - ilable for infrastructure investment responds to their immediate
-dst technical assistance and training will introduce improved
vfproaches to project evaluation, investment financing, and
implementation and maintenance.
*    Rooting rural development pollcies ln local tradition and culture:
For 45 years local governance traditions were purposely pushed
toward oblivion in favor of collectivist dogma that have now been
discredited.   The credibility of the rural development policy
depends on its capacity to merge local culture and new orientations
coming from the West.
3.2   This rural development strategy calls for creating a transition institution
that would establish and direct labor-intensive rural works, and provide small
loans that meet the needs of the poorest part of the population, while the Dank
for Agricultural Development expands its activities for larger loans. This
proposed institution is the Rural Development Fund (RDF) described in paras.
3.21-3.24.
B. The Prmm
3.3   The Government's Rural Poverty Alleviation Program responds to the deep
concern of President Berisha, expressed during his July 1992 visit to Washington,
and to the Government's two stated priorities: employment and food security. The
idea of the program arose from the agrlcultural strategy sector study that
identified the main issues facing Albanian agriculture. The interest expressed
by several international and bilateral donors including a French Noo, which
provided the first seed money for a rapid action initiative against poverty,
helped to formulate and initiate it.
3 4   Albania's Rural Poverty Alleviatlon Program has three main objectivess (a)
creating employment for the rural population and inject cash resources into rural
households, (b) repairing basic rural infrastructure to facilitate economic
growth, and, (c) promoting small private sector activities to help create a rural
market economy. careful monitoring of progress toward these objectives will
provide feedback to the Government for developing rural policy, including
improving on-going local government and local financing reforms. The program
avoids the multi-sectoral integrated rural development approach, which gave mixed
results in many countries ln the 19609, and focuses instead on bringing capital
and training resources to the bottom level of rural society, leaving full
initiative to villages, comunes, and farmers themselves.
PrEoaMn Desoaldom and Cmuonns
3 5   The Government's Rural Poverty Alleviation Program has three components:
(a) a rural works program, (b) promotion of small economic activities through a
credlt program focusing on very small loans, and (c) studies, technology and
training.



9 
3.6  The rural works program focuses on financing basic local infrastructure
rehabilitation. The rehablILtation projects will be initiated by the villages and
executed under the control of the communes. The types of infrastructure to be
financed will be chosen under priorities deflned by the communes withln a
framework of the avaLlability of materials and equipment. Three maln criteria
wlll be used to select subprojectst economic and soclal Lmpact; the labor
intensity of works, and their potential contribution to local instltution
building. Selection criteria are described in detail ln Annex 3.
3.7  The types of projects that meet these criteria are, ln the first stages
(a) rehabilitating ex-cooperative dirt roads, (b) repairlng or extending water
supply systems, (e) rehabilitatlng small village irrigation schemes and adjusting
them to the new land-ownershlp structure, (d) repairing and rebuilding schools
and possibly health centers, and (e) establishing new market facilities. Examples
of project requests already submitted by rural communities are presented in
Annex 3.
3.8  Blectricity and telephone rehabilitation and extension have not been
included in the first stage (except in special cases such as repairing the
electrical network needed for the functioning of a pumping station) for two main
reasonss (a) the dimension of works and the change of technical norms require
a country-wide approach, and (b) these two types of infrastructure are not
regar%;ed by the villagers themselvee as having priority.  Reforestation, and
water and soil conservation have high labor content and positive environmental
effects but relatively low economic and social impact in the short term. Above
all, the legal aspects of forest ownership must be clarified before the communes
or villages accept any responsibility in this sector.
3.9 In all cases, local subprojects will be limited to a size and number
compatible with the capacities of the communes in terms of execution, maintenance
and recurrent cost coverage. The 142 subprojects anticipated under the p$iot
phase reflect a cautLous appraisal of the capacity of RDF and local organixations
to implement infrastructure projects. Contracts will be signed with the communes
deflning work programs, timing, cost estimates, and future maintenance (for
details of the proposed "project cycle" see Annex 3). The communes will then hire
technical and supervisory personnel - drawing on the pool of technicians from the
former cooperative farms - and village labor to carry out the works. Basing
financing declsLons on simple technical and economlc crLteria is expected to
introduce a new approach in public investment and give more responsib$lity to
local government.
3.10 Rehabilitating rural lnfrastructure will create employment opportunities
.;.d generate cash income desperately needed not only to buy basic farm inputs but
also, in many cases, to ensure famlly survival.
Prnommt  Economik Acso* Thnnuh SmlS1e Credt
3.11 Albania s rural environment is ln a state of great uncertainty as regards
prices, input supply, access to markets, privatization of irrigation, mechaniza-
tion, etc. The rural credit system Ls still rudimentary, and few farmers have



- 10 -
access to either seasonal credit for inputs or longer-term loans. Farmers have
reacted by adopting a subsistence risk-avoiding strategy that concentrates on the
food security of their own families rather than producing marketable surpluses.
3.12 The main institutLon for formal credlt to agrlculture is the Albanian Bank
for Agricultural Development (ABaD) which was spun off from the State Bank of
Albania in 1991. It rmains far from fully operational. ABAD has a portfolio
of some lek 4 billion in loans to state frxms and state-owned enterprises. With
total private sector loans of only lek 320 million, MAD is still at a very
elementary stage of lending to farmers and rural entrepreneurs. It lacks the
institutional capacity to develop small credit, or to cover the high transaction
costs of small-scale rural lending. The Parliament is still debating whether to
place AMAD under the general banking law approved in 1992. This places ABAD In
a difficult position as regards mobilizing Central Bank resources, while pressure
on it to lend to state farm is crowding out private sector credit.
3.13 While aBAD is expected to be capable of providing credit to commercial
farming operations once its legal status under the banking law has been
clarified, it lacks the mechanisms to service the credit needs of small farmers.
MAD procedures are roughly the same for small and large credits, which raises
the transaction costs of smaller loans and discourages small farmers from asking
for loans: loan requests must be accompanied by an imposing number of documents
and certificates and take at least three months to process. In this context, it
is necessary to design and test a system of rural credit that can addkss this
group's needs while ABD concentrates on larger loans and develops the- ep.rtise
to process small ones. Such a system has been worked out with farmers themselves
and AMAD local staffs it is based on the creation of village credit Sunds that
will enable financial intermediation to take place at the local level.
3.14 The Village Credlt Fund component of the government's Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program is designed to fill the gap left by ABAD's present inability
to meet the seasonal and Lnvestment credit needs of farmers. As the average
number of households per village varies between 100 and 200, and the average size
of loan would be approximately $l507, the amount of a village fund should be
approximately $15,000, normally starting wlth a first tranche of $5,000. Short-
term loans would be used for inputs, while medium-term lending would be used for
livestock or equipment purchazes by farmers and micro-entrepreneurs.
3.15 The Village Credit Funds will be supervised by Village Credit Committees
made up of the village head and at least two other villagers, elected by the
villagers, and representatives of AMAD and the Rural Development Fund. RDF will
deposit funds in an interest-bearing account earmarked for the village in the
local AMAD branch, and sign standard contracts with ABAD and the Village Credit
Committee to manage and supervise the funds.
3.16 While IMF will retain ownership of these accounts, the comdittees will act
as its agents in deciding on credit allocations and controlling the repayment of
loans; ABAD will keep accounts and handle the money. RWF and ABAD will be
remunerated for their services, while the village cammlttees will operate on a
non-remunerated basis. Security pledges will be deflned by village committees,
IV An IFDC survey dArng the 1991/92 season showed that 25m of farmers borrowed money. Howevor, only 1X
borrowed from AMAD, with the rest borrowing from fndly or triends wthout interest. Average loan stz was
SSO, wnd the mf uses of credit wer to pay for tractor servioes, or bWy seedb, fertillaro, manure and
pestfcides. The credit uas repad after the harvest.
ZiThe mOsimm loan nunAt woutd be USS300 equivalent per family during the Pltot Phase.



t.          -11l-
and can be based on crops, equipment, or personal or group guarantees. Assurance
of repayment should be mximized by bringing loan decisions to the village level,
where they will be made by neighbors who both know potential creditors and are
in a position to exert social pressure for tlmely repayment. A second level of
security would be added by having RDF stop all new commitments from a village
fund if there are defaults. An Umergency Fund financed from a 0.5% fee added to
loan repayments would be built into the system to help borrowers who face
axe-optional repayment difficulties. Detailed arrangements for the operation of
t'e a mexency Fund, and mechanisms for mobilizing rural savings to make village
funds self-sustaining, inoluding mandatory savings account deposits tied to loan
repayments, will be tested during the Program's pilot phase.
3.17 As in all credlt schemes, the main problem is to ensure the sustainability
of the system by covering the cost of capital - including laflation - and
transaction costs. The villagers themselves suggested creating an inflation
index bas-ad on the price of crops or animals, but this would be diffic, t to
apply. The seven ongoing Phase Two credit schemes (para. 3.19 and Annex S) use
an alternative approach to ensuring that interest rates are positive in real
torms: loans have been expressed in leke but repayments fixed in constant-dollar
equivalent terms, thus approximately capturing the effects of inflation.8 This
has been accepted by the villagers, and it is proposed to apply the same system
to the.pilot project. Initial fees to cover transactions costs, which will be
reassessed as the credit program progresses, have been set at:
village Committee       0.0%
ABAD                    2.0%
Total                   4.5%
Rund Sftdi lesedmol!  sad Tnhd e
3.18 One of the challenges faced by the Government is to define rural
development policies rooted in local culture and, at the same time, open to new
technologies and market mechanisms. This will not be easy in a country where
local traditions and historical community organisation have been deliberately
destroyed for 45 years and where all relations with the outside world were cut.
This program component will begin with studies to understand better the basic
structure of rural Albanian society and the contributions it can make to rural
development. It will have three subcamponents:
(a)   A rural studies subcomponent will collect information on local
traditions and farmer attitudes on such issues as land ownership, labor
organization, off-farm activities, village organization, and informal
credit before collectivisation. The survey will also inventory village
problems, such as access to markets, water and energy supply, land use,
managment of local resources such as irrigation, pastures, and forests
which, for the moment, still belong to the state, and farming methods and
conditions, including cropping choices, Input use, and household budgets.
The purpose of these studies will be to establish profiles of farms and
villages where villag credit funds can be established. The surveys will
be complementary to existing IFDC surveys. They will also help monitor
Lek ftppayuts witl be calculated according to the curret dollar cchae rate to capture the dollar
equivalent of the original loan.



- 12 -
the credit program and provide valuable Information for rural development
policy.
(b)   A  technology  subcomponent will  seek  small-scale  technologies
appropriate to local resources and markets, test them, and facilitate the
proeurement of small equipment for private entrepreneurs. This could be
organiLed in collaboration with the SC funded Small and Medium Enterprise
Support Unit, which is expected, in the near future, to have seven
regional agencies.9
(c)   The training component will consist of training courses for local
government technical staff in project evaluation, financial management and
market economics, courses in business planning and management for farmers
and rural entrepreneurs, and professional exchanges with local governments
or enterprises in other countries.
C Mefhodelotwy A Parduathe. Press Auprob
3.19 The Government program is being implemented in four phases:
a.ase ls    Early test actions, already underway, comprise the execution
of two small rural works projects, and the first village and
farm surveys. They are being financed by Fr&res d'Esp6rance,
a French NGO, for a total amount of US$20,000.
Pbase 2s    Pre-pilot phase which started in November 1992, is testing the
organizational and technical approaches possible for eight
more rural works projects and seven Village Credit Funds.
This phase (US$100,000) ls being financed by UNDP.
Phase 3s    Pilot phase, involving an IDA-financed project.  This is the
project described in Chapter 4. It is scheduled to start in
early Spring 1993. The year-long pilot project financed by
IDA and other donors will cost approximately US$4.8 million.
Phuse 4:    Full-scale project, amounting to approximately US$32 million
over three years could be co-financed by IDA and other donors
if the pilot phase is successful. It was agreed at negotia-
tions that RDF would undertake evaluation of the Pilot Project
eight months after effectiveness of the Credit for the Pilot
Project for the purpose of designing the Full-Scale Project,
which would extend the project to the whole country.
3.20 This process approach allows the program to be adjusted to local needs and
constraints as lessons drawn from each phase are used to prepare the next one.
St will also allow for - in fact, encourage - participation by loc4l people and
institutions. During the pre-pilot phase, the organization of the rural works
and the village credit fund concept were worked out in continuous dialogue with
commune and the village representatives to maximize their chances of success.
This included contractual arrangements between communes, village councils, and
the Bank for Agricultural Development that define their responsibilities and the
relationship between them and the pre-pilot project. This participative approach
2/The Support init organizes business training progra,  finances invstment credit and Insures procurement
of equipment tor smatI- and asdi.m-scal enterprises. The average toan awounts to $6,000, 4r above the
average *2 of the intended vil lage tund loans ($20 to $300). Although their target populations are not
the saf, the program .flt run In parllel, and coordination should not be difficult.



- 13 -
is an application of modern management methods (e.g., quality circles) to the
rural sector.
D. hJDuIlentgatO: CrestiI, A Rur Develogment Fund
3.21   The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program outlined above cannot be carried out
efficiently and rapidly by Albania's administrative services - which are
themselves in a period of adjustment and reform - or by ABAD, which is not yet
able to carry out a full-fledged rural credit program. Following the experience
of other countries, the Government has established a small independent agency
outside the normal government structure - the Rural Development Fund (RDF) - to
implement the program.  RDF was established by the Council of Ministers in
January 1993 (Annex 1)t its major features are summarized below:
RMDF Oraniaion
3.22 The RDF is an agency under the oversight of the Council of Ministers,
established as a juridical person with the authority to enter into contracts, and
with administrative, technical and financial autonomy. Local institutions (e.g.,
village credit committees or water user associations) will contract with RDF to
carry out the credit and public works components of the program, and standard
contracts with these local institutions will be included in RDF's Operational
Guidelines.
3.23 The Fund's orientation, during the pilot phase, will be poverty alleviation
in rural areas through the program described above. During this phase the target
population of the Fund's rural works component will be the poorest part of the
rural population; those with limited, if any, cash income and whose farming is
by necessity now oriented toward self-sufficiency. The rural credit component
will be broader, addressing farmers and rural micro-entrepreneurs who do not have
access to banks. RDF resources will mainly be those assigned It by multilateral
or bilateral aid agencies. RDF's governing bodies are:
(a)   A Board of Trustees, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, and
comprising the deputy ministers of Agriculture and Food, Economy and
Finance, Labor, and a representative of the Office for Local Governments.
(b)   An Executive Committee formed by the Executive Director, the two
Deputy Directors and the financial director of RDF. The Executive Director
will be named by the RDF Board Chairman, in consultation with, and with
the approval of, IDA. Any successors to that post during the project
period will also require IDA approval.   The appointment of an RDF
Executive Director will be a condition of project effectiveness.
3.24    The Board defines and oversees RDF's main policy and program objectives,
while the Executive Committee is responsible for its management. The proposed
organization of the RDF is set out in Annex 1. It consists of an administrative
and financial department, and operational departments for infrastructure
projects, rural credit, and studies, training, and technology. An internal audit
unit will report directly to the Chairman of the Board.  Technical assistance
will be provided for an initial period of two years by two full-time advisors,
one for the rural works component and one for the credit component. These field
specialists will be supported by short-term missions by other specialists as
required. RDF staff requirements have been estimated at 35 persons in the first
year, rising to 79 in the fourth year as the number of subprojects financed
increases (Table 2).



- 14 -
bti 2: RtF STAFF PROJECTIONS
Ofr.ct@i*               1            1          1            t
Senir _nant staff       4           6           8            9
Englnsrs/ersdft off eers  18        28          3?           45
Accomtuants             1            2          2            2
Se@tertes               2           3           4            4
Driver/uscmnfca         9            13         16          18
TOTAL                   3S           53         68           79
3.2S Within the framework of the decreo establishing RDF (Annex 1), the agency's
wperations will be governed by its Regulations (Annex 2) and comprehensive
operational Guidelines covering procurement and implementation of the rural works
and credit components, and the criteria under which districts and communes would
be selected for eligibility. These Regulations and Guidelines will support the
approaches to each component set out in paras. 3.6-3.18 above, detailing, inter
alias
For the Rural Credit Component: The relationship between RDF, village
credit committees, and beneficiaries, including eligibility criteria for
villages and beneficiaries and model agreements for the contractual
relationships between RDF, ABAD, village committees, and beneficiaries.
The Guidelines will also cover village credit committee membership and
credit procedures, including lending and collateral criteria and the
indexing methodologies used for loan repayments, ABAD supervision of loan
accounts and default procedures.
For the Rural Works Component: The regional and sector distribution of
public works subprojects. The project cycle, including subproject iden-
tification, selection, appraisal, approval and implementation. This would
include technical criteria and specifications for the works to be carried
out and evaluating their economic impact. The Guidelines would also cover
procedures and model contracts for contracting with subproject implement-
ing agencies - usually the communes - including their counterpart
contcributions, maintenance, and user-fees, where applicable.
The establishment of an information system/database to provide subproject
implementing agencies with nationwide price information that will allow
effective purchasing of the goods and services needed to carry out
subprojects. Payment, accounting, and auditing procedures.
3.26 A working group to implement the Test and Pro-Pilot phases was established
in September 1992 under the sponsorship of the Minister of Agriculture. UNDP and
the Fr4res D'Esp6rance provided funding to hire local professionals, who have
worked with expatriate consultants to set up village credit committees - seven
of which are already operational (Annex 5) - and train commune leadership in
developing the mechanisms to define and select local public works subprojects.
Local support for, and participation in, this process has been strong, and very
encouraging. The working group's training and experience in implementing these
arly phases has created a potential nucleus for the Rural Development Fund's
staff.
3.27 Implementation of the major project components would build on the
experience of the first two phases, which are described in Annexe 3 (rural
publi¢ works) and 5 (small-scale credit). RDF?' Infrastructure Operations
Department will evaluate rural orks subprojects proposed by the communes to



- 15 -
ensure that they are in line with Project priorities and local needs as expressed
by the villages. The experience of Phases 1 and 2 has shown that technical staff
are available at the local level and capable of preparing cost estimates and work
programs. RDF staff will work with local staff to ensure satisfactory subproject
design and supervise implementation, which will remain a commune responsibility.
For the credit comoonent, RDF's Credit Operations Department will work with
village credit committees and ABAD staff as described ln paras. 3.11-3.17. These
arrangements appear to have worked well in the oarly test phases of the Program.
CeemaUhl  Area of intw  tlou
3.28 The Fund will ultimately (under Phase 4) finance subprojects in the 313
rural communes, including 24 small rural towns, although priority will be given
to the poorest areas for labor-intensive rural works. Given the importance of
urban unemployment - which rose to S08 during early 1992 - and the political
concern of the Government, the Fund may try to organize the participation of town
inhabitants in rural works around the cities and experiment with a credit
approach for urban self-employment in parallel with the village funds.
3.29 The Rural Development Fund is not intended to be a permanent institution.
Its program will be adjusted as it evolves from a rural poverty alleviation focus
to become a rural development program. rt is hoped that the village credit fund
system, after being tested and shown to work on a broad scale, can ultLmately be
handled directly by a strengthened Bank for Agricultural Development, or become
the nucleus of a rural cooperative banking system. The rural works component is
designed to strengthen local government capacity to select, design, organize, and
implement infrastructure projects, and it is anticipated that responsibility will
progressively be transferred from RDF to the communes.
Ea_*d Pram Adevment  ad Cost
3.30 The proposed Rural Poverty Alleviatlon Program would take four years.
During this period, the total investment of the Rural Development Fund (i.e.,
separate from administrative costs and studies), estimated at $31,800,000, would
be divided approximately between the rural works program (70%), small scale
credit (25%), and rural studies, technology, and training (5). This would allow
for the realization of more than 800 infrastructure projects, the average cost
of which has been estimated at $11,000, rLsing to $32,000 in the fourth year on
the assumption that small rehabilitation projects will progressively be replaced
by new projects and that exceedLngly low labor and local supplies costs (monthly
wages amount to $12) will tend to rise toward international market levels. On
the average, the program would finance 2.6 projects per commune, enough to have
a significant impact, but still far below the real needs.
3.31  During the four-year program period RD? is expected to finance 500 village
credit funds, estimated at an average size of $15,000 the first year and reaching
$24,000 ln the fourth year. The village funds are expected to cover less than 20%
of Albanian villages. ThL represents a very prudent approach that takes into
account the considerable time and effort nueded to set up each village fund and
ensure its proper supervLison. If the system works well, which also requlres a
well-functLoning banking sector, thLs component could expand more rapldly.
3.32 The rural studies and technoiogy component has been designed on the
assumption that it will include 500 village profiles and 70 pilot operations
introducing and testing small-scale production equLpment in rural areas.



- 16 -
Technical assistance missions in Albania and technical support abroad are
included in this component.
3.33 The training component includes six-week preliminary courses for RD? staff,
who w11l also receive on-the-job training, 140 study trips abroad, and training
for 870 commune staff and 420 rural micro-entrepreneurs. This component includes
technical assistance.
3.34 Program design has been carefully based on the implementation capacity of
the RDF and other executing agencies - communes, vlllages, the Albanian banking
sector, and local contractors - rather than on the potential demand.
3.35 The four-year program would cost about $36.0 millioni a cost summary is
shown in Table 3. Except for the increase in dollar prices of local labor and
supplies, which has been estimated at 30% for the first year and at a decreasing
rate thereafter, no other contingencies have been provided. Any further increase
in average subproject costs would result in a reduction in the number of subpro-
jects.
Table3: ALBANIA RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRM.
EST114ATED FOUR-YEAR COST'
(US$ milIion)
Lgo_1 Foreilon   Total   XU %EBass Cost
Rural Works       18.1    1.0    19.1     5    53.1
Smll-Scale Credit  9.5    1.1    10.5   10    29.2
Studies. Technolo-  0.9    1.3    2.2    58    6.1
gy. and Training
ROF Equipment     0.0    0.6    0.6    95       1.7
ROF Recurrent Costs    1.6    0.6    2.2    29    6.1
Technical Assistan-    0.5    0.9    1.4    65    3.9
ce, Monitoring &
Evaluation
Total            30.6    5.5    36.0    15.3  100.0
1 Estimates are not given in lek because of uncertainty about Inflation
3.36 Recurrent costs have been kept to a minimum. Recurrent costs represent
about 6.1% of total cost, and equLpment costs 1.7%.  A significant part of
expenditures (1.2*) would be used to cover transport and travel expenses, as RDF
staff wlll have to make frequent field trips. The rural works officers, located
in Tirana will share cars, whlle the credit offliers, located ln distrLet towns,
will use motorcycles.   Informatlon and promotion expenses (0.7%) t-ave been
included In operating costs.
3.37 Toechnical assistance will be important during the Program's first and
second years. It includes two full time expatriates for two years (terms of
reference in Annex 8), and regular follow-up and support miLssons by a rural
works engineer and a credlt specialist. Monitoring and evaluation missLons and
international auditing once a year are also lneluded in this category, which
amounts to 3.9% of the program's four-year cost. Except for training- and
technology-related costs, which have been included ln the corresponding programs,
technlcal assistance has been listed separately to avoid dLatortLng recurrent
costs.



-17-
L IaUOfl,JorLIDAIDYjIIDIUS
3.38  it is proposed that IDA support Albania's Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program, starting with the Pilot Project described in Chapter 4 below. IDA
involvement is justified because the proposed project is fully in line with the
Bank Group' overarching objective of addressing poverty in economically
officient ways. it is now urgent for the Government to start directing resources
toward activities that foster economic development while alleviating poverty.
Albania's Rural Poverty Alleviation Program would achieve these goals by
providing incomes in very poor rural areas while improving infrastructure and
provLdLng small-scale credit to allow increased economic activity. The Program
wlll also begin the critical task of creating new locally based institutions to
take over the infrastructure development and maintenance functions of the
dissolved cooperatives.
3.39 IDA involvement in the program would provide for urgent measures to be
taken whlle mainline IDA interventions are being designed to help bring about
structural change, such as the proposed FY93 ASAC and the FY95 Rural Roads
Project. The program would also be linked with the proposed Education Project,
which could use the Rural Development Fund as an executing agency for repairing
and rebuilding schools.
F. &Mikft  Lmsos frm BankaDA 
3.40 The design of the proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation Project builds on past
experience with public rural works and credit projects by the Bank Group and lts
antecedents stretch even further back in time. Rural development and reglonal
investment funds exist in many countries with the basic objective of decentraliz-
ing public investment decisions and giving more initiative to those who know best
about their needs: local government or the beneficlaries themselves. Since the
mid-1980. the need to counterbalance the negative social impact of structural
adjustment programs has led many countries to create social funds dealing with
this specific problem.  The lessons the Bank/IDA and its borrowing member
countrLes have learned from their experience with social funds are described in
Annex 9. These lessons offer important guidance for Albania 's Rural Poverty
Alleviation Programs
*    the program's target populatLon should be well defined, and it
should focus on assisting small private farmers and the rural
unemployed.
*     to ensure its transparency, effectiveness, and ability to disburse
funds rapidly, the RDF should be autonomous, authorized to adopt
flexible procurement practices and offer private sector salaries to
its staff.
to enoure RDF accountability, it should report regularly on its
activities to the Government, Parliament and the press, carry out
regular audits of its financial statements and physical investments,
and have a management informatlon system that tracks the implementa-
tion of each subproject.
*     the selection of subprojects proposed by the local level for support
from RDF should be made after full consultation within the concerned
communities



- 18 -
3.41  Howevert the main recommendation that can be drawn from  the Bank/IDA
experience is that no program can be replicated from one country to another. One
of Albania's hallmarks is that it is a wmall country in which subprojects can be
at once decentralized and controlled from the center. Although local government
has just been reformed, the comunes have inherlted the administratlve experience
accumulated by the former joined villages. The financial and economic approach
has to be adapted to market principles, but the educational level of the
population and the technical capacities of local staff are good. Even though the
communist regime attempted to bury local traditions, there are vivid memories of
the village organization, and the will to become once again self-governed and
self-suffLcLent. Finally because of the recent land reform, which dletributed
land equally between the former cooperatlve workers, rural wealth in each village
is relatlvely level - although that level is quite low - wlth the differences
between vlllages arising according to thelr access to land and lrrlgatlon.
IV. THE PROJECTf: THE RURAL POVERTY ALLEVZTION PROGRAM'S PILOT PHASE
4. 1 The proposed project would provide financing for the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program's Pilot Phase, which would establish and staff the Rural
Development Fund and begin implementing rural credit and public works programs.
This pilot approach is seen as a means to combine quick action to meet urgent
problems in rural Albania with a flexible incremental approach that will allow
testing of each component as it is put into place and implementation begins. The
project, thus, Lncludes a strong monitoring and evaluatlon component that will
be used to provide feedback that will allow continual adjustment as the program
develops.
4.2   Phases 1 and 2 of the Program (par&. 3.19) have provided implementation
experLence that has been used to design the more ambitious Pilot Phase described
in this chapter. Two rural works schemes were executed in Phase 1, and five more
in Phase 2: they have demonstrated a high level of interest among villagers and
local government officlals in participating in the works program, and confirmed
the capacity of local technical staff to design and organize construction work
using labor-intensive techniques. They have also served as a training ground for
local staff in subproject design and evaluation. The seven village credit funds
established under Phase 2 (para. 3.26 and Annex 5) have provided valuable
feedback; contractual arrangements have been worked out with village credit
committees and the logistLcs of credit distribution tested on some 120 separate
loan packages. Results have been highly favorable, giving considerable confidence
that the Pilot Project can be launched successfully.
4.3 The proposed project's objective is to establish Albania's Rural
Development Fund and provide financing for its first, pilot, year of operations.
Test and pre-pilot phases of the program have already been carried out with
funding from a French NCO and UNDP. As a pilot project lt would have a strong
monitoring and evaluation component, so that immediate experience in both
institution-building, and subproject financing and implementation, would provide
feedback to fine-tune and improve program effectiveness. This oversight would
include a mld-term review (para. 3.19) eLght months after Project start-up that
would evaluate whether progress was sufficient to warrant moving ahead to IDA
support of the Government's proposed full scale Phase 4 Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program. The review criteria would include evaluating the performance and
Lnstitutional capaclty of RDF, the communes (for public works subproject



- 19 -
selection, design, and implementation), and the village credlt funds (lacluding
their repayment performance). While elght months may see" a relatively short tlme
to begin this review, the vlllage credit funds, comtune public works programs,
and a precursor RDF organization are already operatlng under the test and pro-
pllot phases, and project atart-up should be quite rapid.
IL PoEet Desadion -ad c2anpouat
44   Withli the general objectlves of AlbanLa's Rural Poverty Alloviatlon
Program, the proposed project would:
(a) Creato the institutional capaclty needed for program implementation
by establishlng the Rural Development Fund and training a first group of
local staff. The project would provlde qulpment for the establishment of
the RDF, 56 man-months of technical assistance, including full-timo
expatriate adviors for two years for the rural works and credit
components, and recurrent costs lncluding transport costs.
(b)   Develop RP0's operational procedures and mechanims of techalcal and
flnancial control.
Ic) Evaluate, design, finance, and lmplement approximately 142 rural
lnfrastructure projects, and establish and fund some 50 vlllage credit
funds.
(d)   Istablish and $mplement, using technlcal asslstance as necessary
(about 4 man-months) training programs for commune staff, farmers, and
local technlclans and entrepreneurs to improve the capaclty of village
credit tunds to evaluate and adinister small loans, and programs to
transfer appropriate technology to farmers and small rural entreprenours.
UsL &rAMlo hmoflm
4. S  As the p$iot project corresponds to the first year of the planned four-year
Rural Poverty Allevlatlon Program, its descriptlon and components are basically
the same as those descrLbed in Chapter 3. The Government has agreed to conclude,
prior to effectiveness, an agreement acceptable to IDA under which it would pass
the proceeds of the Credit to the project implementlag agency, RDF, as a grant.
RD?, with the asslstance of consultants, will carry oat the Project through lts
infrastructure, rural credit, and studies/technology departments.
4.6   RDF0a will implement the Project under lts Regulations and Opez. cional
Guldellnes. It was agreed at negotiations that the Regulations and GuLdellnea,
and any subsequent changes to them, will be subject to Associatlon approval;
production of the Regulations and GuLdelLnes acceptable to IDA are be a conditlon
of Project effectiveness.
4.7  The project's pllot nature provides the opportunlty for its approaches to
be continually tested so that they can be adapted to lncrease their effectlve-
ness.  For that purpose, close monitoring of the followlng elements will be
carried outs



- 20 -
For rural works componentst
*     Types of works, their technical design, unit  prices and cost
estimate0 and methods and organization of construotlong thli should
allow RDF to build a database and establish a standard list of
projects and costs.
*     ProJect beneficiaries at COun, village and farm level. Thls will
enable better targeting of the program toward the poorest part of
the population.
*     Local partners, including supervision engineers and technicians,
public and private subcontractors, enterprises supplyLng materials
and services including the bankLng sector. IncludLig this informa-
tion in the RDF database will help organize the local market and
facLlitate the selection of subcontractors.
*    Financial organization and control, which has to be organized and
tested.
For the rural crodit component:
*     The organization  and functloning of village  funds and their
cooperation with ABAD.
*     Loan amounts, and economic activlties financed.
*    Repayment rates and reasons for defaults.
zLoan beneficiaries, by age, sex, and education and income levels.
4.8  Data from the monitoring program will be used to revlse and adjust the
village credlt fund component before extending lt to a larger scale.
Studh
4.9 Rural studies wlll improve understanding of village and farm problems,
monitor the overall program, and evaluate its impact. Technology transfer will
be tested with a limlted number of equipment types corresponding to the main
needs of the rural populatlon. TraLLng, in the first stage for the EDF staff,
will expand progressively toward commune staff and rural mLcro-entrepreneurs.
It will be progressively adjusted to integrating a better knowledge of the RDP
needs and the proflles of traLnees.
C. Pramnmmhw and Diofrudon of ReSouU
4.10   The RDF would program lts financing separately for the rural works and
rural credit components. The rural works, which are to be a grant program, would
focus maLnly on poor areas, seeking to generate Lncome rapidly, but avoiding
uneconomic investments that would sseentially serve as subsidies to support
people who might otherwise migrate from the rural areas. The ruraL credit
component, whose loans would bear real positive interest rates, would start in
areas representing all types of development situations.



- 21 -
4.11 The rural works program will be limited during the pilot phase to Albania s
10 poorest districtO10. The funds would be allocated to the districts based on
a formula (for details see Annex 4) taking into account district population and
three poverty lndlcatorst arable land per capita, percentage of hilly and
mountain land, and the rate of unemployment. Within the district, the funds will
be allocated to the communes under the same criteria. This distrLbution formula
will be re-examLned after nine months and allocations can then be changed, not
exceedLng 10% of the total budget.
4.12   The rural credit component would begin in fLve districts in the plalns,
hilly, and mountain ares representing Albania's different regions. These are
likely to be Mirdite in the north, Mlbasan, LLbrazhd, and Gramsh in the center,
and Kolonjo ln the south.
Focinan di Rurt Per
4.13 The proposed project would target the poor in two specific ways in addition
to its allocation of funds for rural infrastructure works to poorer areas.
Workers on rural infrastructure projects will be selected according to poverty
criteria, and only one nember of eaih family will be accepted. The credit
component will Laclude a $300 per family lan ceiling during the first year.
Farmers or rural entrepreneurs who need larger loans will submit their requests
directly to A8aD.
Women In Dveoumet
4.14 Albania's rural women are now eAtirely absorbed by farm tasks, as their
overriding concern ls to ensure family food security until next harvest. They
do most of the manual work, which has increased because of the mechanization
crisis brought on by a lack of operating tractors, the inadequacy of tractors for
preparing small plots size, and the cost of tractor services. They often work 1S-
hour days, and have few opportunities to develop other actlvities.
4.15 The project's pllot phase would address thLs issue in a number of ways.
Increasing rural incomes and providing credit would allow an increasing amount
of cultivation to be carried out with mechanical or animal power bscause farmers
would have cash to hire rented services. Water supply subprojects carried out
under the project would reduce the very heavy and time-consuming task of carrying
water, which is mainly carried out by women. The project could also finance hand
tillers, which could be used by groups of farmers to reduce cultLvation time and
effort. Project preparation also included discussions with village women's
assc.iations, which are preparing specifLc credit programs for women that could
be financed by the RDF. These programs could be organized on the basis of the
solidarity group approach inspired by the experience of the Grameen Bank in
Bangladesh.
Emfronnatn  Efecs
4.16 The project has been assigned an environmental category IBS rating, and
does not require an environmental assessment. Given the types of subprojects to
be financed under the project, no significant environmental impact is expected,
and in some cases these subprojects would promote improved natural resource
management. For example, it may be possible to include onvironmentally positive
jQ/ The 10 poorest dfstrfcts are Puke, Ntrdite, TropoJe, Nat, Ku"es/Ras, LUbra2hd, rmsai, skrapar,
Diber/utlkiae, and Pcgradec.



- 22 -
reforestation. works in the list of projects to be contracted with the communes,
and village credit funds could be used to finance seedlings or nurseries to plant
fruit trees along the boundaries of farm plots. A set of environmental criteria
would be developed and applied to each subprojeoct through a standard subproject
checklist. These criteria would be drafted by a consultant specializing in
natural resource management and included in the RD? Operational Guidelines.
Public facilities to be built or repaired would include proper waste disposal
facilities, and rural roads and irrigatiqn systa_ would be designed to mitigate
eroslon potential. With regard to the rural credit component, XDA is providing
support to the Government of Albania under the June 1992 critlcal Imports Project
in the selection of appropriate fertilisers, pesticides and related safety
equipment.
D. Pilot Protect Costs
4.17 Within the total cost of the program, presented In Chapter 3 and amounting
to $36 million, the pilot phase represents $4.8 million - first-year costs of
$3.9 million, plus recurrent costs, technical assistance, and monitoring for 12
additional months ($0.87 million). This additional funding will allow for the
continuity of the program during the appraisal of a possible next phase.
4. 18 The pilot phase will cover the financing of 142 rural infrastructure
projects for a total cost of $1.6 million, the creation of S0 village credit
funds for a total amount of $0.75 million, and studies, technology and training
for an amount of $0.4 million. The breakdown of the pilot project's costs is
shown in Table 4:
Tabte 4: COST ESTIRATESL'
L5BL   fon   Tota        igaLoaL   FrLifn   1Ttal    PerfeftU
-..--.(ltek mfittln) --------  ...........(S 000)........  B1e
FE   Cost
Rural Works         151.05    7.95  159.00  1,510.5    79.5  1,590     5    33.4
Smtll-Scale Credit  67.50     7.50  75.00    675.0     75.0    750    10    IS.?
Studies, Technology,  15.37    21.23   36.60    153.?    212.3    366    S8   7.7
and Training
Equipment for RDf    1.8O    35.06  36.90     18.4    350.6    369    95      7.7
ROf Recurrent Costs  47.85    19.55   67.40    478.5    195.S    674    29    14.1
Technical Assistance  35.56    66.04  101.60    355.6    660.4  1,016    65    21.3
Total              319.17   157.33  476.50   3,191.7  1,573.3  4,765    33   100.0
Y More de*ul ce UMe VA be f*md in Amex.. S. 5. en
L Finadne Pla for Mm Pfilt Phase
4.19 Given Albaniags very serious budgetary situation at present it is proposed
that, at least for this pilot phase, the Government's contribution be mainly in
kind - office space, participation of administrative services, etc. Subsequent-
ly, for the main project, counterpart fLnancing of at least 5S of the investment
cost should be required from the communes for the rural works financing. Given
the lack of local investment budgets and the decapitalizatiao lof the rural
population, thls rule cannot be applied in the pilot stage. Thus, during the
pilot phase, comunes will be only requested to take charge of recurrent costs,
which will be covered malnly by taxation in labor of the village inhabitants.



-23-
In the case of projects for which operatlng expenses are nonmally covered by line
ministries or specialized agencies (e.g. schools or water supply), a formal
agency comitment would be required before RDF signs a contract with a commune.
4.20 The wages paid on RDP financed rural works subprojects will be defined
,according to unskilled sectoral market rates. For moms types of projects where
the social impact is more important than labor intensity, salaries will be below
market rates to allow for a village contribution to subproject financing. This
may be the case for water supply projects, especially in the plains, where
additional cash inacome is less an absolute necessity. The contribution of the
villages to the credit fund component will consist of the voluntary work of the
village cosuittees.
4.21  Several donors have indicated their readiness to cofinance the pilot phase
and expressed intentions to contribute to the full-scale project. The ZC has
financed consultants for project preparation, and UNDP financed the pre-pilot
phase. Both have indicated their intention to continue their support to the RDF.
The financing plan is suimmarised in Table 5.
Table St PZIACING PLAY
(USS million)
IDA (80R 1.80 million)         2.4
BC                             2.0
USDP                           0.4
TOTAL                          4.8
F. Procurent
4.22  Procurement arrangement are suumarized in Table 6.
Abl 6: PROCNREET ARAN6EIETSU
(US$000)
QLtesof gf EMndi-    inL                Other               S I Share of
tur                                                            IDA
Civtl oiks       -          -          1,590      l,S90         69
(1,130)    (1,130)
Equipoent & Naterials -     _          369       369           100
(369)     (369)
Technical Assistance,       -          1,342      1.342         39
Studies, Tedhnology                    (400)      (400)
and Training
Credit Fuds      -          -          750       750            33
(300)     (300)
Recurrent Costs  -          -          674       674            34
(201)     (201)
Total Financng                       4,765      4,765         50
Requirements                         (2,400)    (2.400)
ROF14tites In paresesare the mounts to be ffnr%d by IDA. Civil vorksl ould be procred by
hfrfng local technicians and vorkers equipment and materfals through local and internatonal shopping
procedbres; fnternational consultants would be selected fn ccordance with IDA guidelines an consultant
selectfon.



- 24 -
4.23 The Rural Works Program would finance about 142 infrastructure subprojects
at a total estimated cost of about US$1.6 million, with an expected average cost
per subproject of about US$11,000 and a maximum cost per subproject of $25,000.
These subprojects would finance small civil works needed for rehabilitating dirt
roads, repairing water supply systems, rehabilitating small village irrlgatlon
schemes, repairing and rebuilding schools and health centers and establishing
market facliLties.   Glven the small value and diLpersed locations of the
contracts, international competitive bidding or limited international competitive
bLdding are not considered suitable. The potential cofinancers have agreed that
procurement procedures should be as simple as possible, and that the procurement
of eivil works, equipment and materials would be carried out in the following
manners
* Rural grfkn: RD?, the project implementing agency, will sign contracts
with communes and other local institutions (e.g., water user associatLons)
for the execution of subprojects. In most cases, these works wlll be
organized and carried out directly by the communes, which will hire local
technielans to supervise the works. As small-scale contractors do not yet
exist in rural Albania, the communes will also hire local workers to
construct the works under regulations and wage rates spelled out in their
contracts with RDF and the RDF Operational GuidelLnes. RDF bookkeeping and
oversLght procedures will also be set out in lts Operational GuLdelLnes.
It is anticipated that by the time the pilot project Ls completed local
contracting capability will be more developed and some communes will be
able to use local shopping procedures based on Lnviting and comparing bids
from several contractors. This situation will be carefully monitored
during the pllot project, and every effort made to introduce local
shopping procedures as this optLon becomes available. The aggregate amount
to be procured under direct hirLng is not expected to exceed US$1.13
million, with a limit of USS25,000 on any indivldual subproject.
e? 3Bagiiment and Materials: Contracts for equipment and materials not
available in Albania (e.g., office equipment, vehicles), for an aggregate
mount estimated at US$350,000 will be awarded through international
shopping procedures based on comparing quotes from at least three
suppliers from three eligible countries. All contracts above $40,000 will
be reviewed by IDA. It Ls expected that individual contracts for the
purchase of equipment will not exceed $S50,000. Local shopping procedures
would be utilized for minor equLpment and supplLes to be procured locally
for an aggregate amount estimated at US$20,000.
* Technical Aseistance. Studies, Training. and Technoloovs Local
consultants will be hired for rural studies at an aggregate cost not
expected to exceed US$100,000 many qualLfied former cooperative personnel
are available. international consultants will be hired in accordance with
IDA guldelLnes on consultant selection. This is expected to comprise 48
person-months for two two-year consultancLes to assist the rural public
works and small-scale credit project components, and an additional six
months of short-term consultancies, for an aggregate amount estimated at
US$300,000.
* CredLt Funds: Procurement under village credlt funds, which would
lnvolve very small amounts (US$20-300), typlcally for purchase of minor
farm inputs and supplies, would be organLied by the farmers concerned Ln
accordance wLth their traditional purchasing practLces for an aggregate
amount of $300,000.



- 25 -
RE1urxmtCSoates The Credit would finance recurrent costs of US$201,000
consisting of the salaries and operating costs of RDF. The RDP staff
would be recruited on the basis of minimum education standards, satisfac-
tory to IDA. The ADF staff would be recruited initially for a probationary
period of six months and would be confirmed after the successful
completion of this period.
4.24  Procuremnent suuorision and Review Process.  To safeguard propriety in
procurement, the details of the above procurement practices would be included in
RDF Operational Guidelines; a indicated earlier (para. 3.25), it was agreed at
negotiations that these GuLdelines, and any subsequent changes in them will be
subject to approval by IDA; production of the Guidelines will be a condition of
effectlveness. In addition, training would be provided to REF and commune staff
in procurement and dLsbursJment. In particular, the RD? staff would be trained
in project management and supervision. IDA staff, during supervision missions,
would review procurement actions to ensure that they are carried out In
accordance with the agreed procedures.
G. Wsbnnens
4.25    The proposed IDA credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of 30
months. The closing date would be June 1995. The disbursement schedule would be
as follows:
Period            Cumulative Amount
$SS million
June 1993               0.20
December 1993           0.70
June 1994               1.20
December 1994           2.00
June 199S               2.40
Disbursements would be made as follows:
(i)   100% of foreign and local expenditures for civil works;
(li) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 85% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally, for equipment and materlals.
(iII) 100% of credits extended to village credit committees, and,
(iv) 100% of local and foreign technical assistance and training.
4.26 All disbursem nts would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures
certified by the RDF Executive Director. The required supporting documents would
be retained by the RDF for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the
audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.  This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting
IDA staff upon request.
4.27  Scecial Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation, it was
agreed at negotiations that the BDY would establish, maintain and operate, under
tern  and conditions acceptable to the IDA, a Special Account denominated in Us
dollars in a local or foreign bank acceptable to IDA, to which IDA would deposit



- 26 -
an initial amount of up to US$300,000 which is judged adequate to cover about
four months of expenditures under the pilot project. The Special Account would
be replenished as appropriate when the undisbureed balasce of tho account falls
below an amount equal to 50% or lese of the amount of the Special Account.
Documentation requirements for replenishment applications would follow the same
procedure as described in preceding paragraphs.  In addition, monthly bank
statements of the Special Account, reconciled by the borrower, would accompany
all replenishment requests.
IL Sunervslo  and _,oifag
4 28  The project would require intense follow up and supervision from the
Association, given its pilot nature. The Association would undertake regular
supervision missions including field vlsits and spot checks of a sample of
projects.
4.29 It was agreed at negotlatlons that RD? would wbmit to the Assoclatlon
quarterly reports includlng the followlng lnformatlon by distrlit and sectort (a)
rural works projects presented by the communes, appralsed, ln execution,
completed and evaluated ex-post, lncluding number of projects and boneflciarles,
amounts committed and executed, average cost per beneficLary and the percentage
of labor ln the investment cost; (b) village credlt funds created, number and
total amount of loans distributed, activities financed, outstandlng, repayment
rate; (c) rural studies carried out, pllot project in new technology implement-
ed, tralnlng courses performed; (d) RDF's key personnel and consultants
indicating the changes that have taken place during the reporting period; and (e)
operating costs of the 3DF.
L Accounbs and Audits
4.30 The Internal Audit Unit, whlch reports directly to the RDF Chairman, will
undertake quarterly audits of RD? operations combining financial assessment wlth
physical inspection of works in the fleld done on a sample of subprojects. The
auditors will prep-are quarterly reports for the RD? Board and for the Assoclation
and other donors, as well as an annual sunmary of audlts.
4.31 Prlvate internatlonal lndependent audltors, acceptable to the Associatlon,
will also undertake annual audits of the 3D?. Not later than six months after
the end of flscal year, RD? will submit to the Assoclatlon certLfied copies of
audit reports contaLaing balance sheets, income statements and the auditor's
opinion on whether the RDF is achievLng its objectLves ln a cost-effectlve way
and whether internal controls are adequate to mLnimize the possibilLty of misuse
of funds.
1 Beneft and Risks
4.32 The proposed proJect's direct and lnimedlate boneflts would come from the
approximately 142 rural works projects lt would finance, and the 5,000 small
loans expected to be disbursed from the 50 Village Funds that would be created.
Payment of some 542,000 person-days of wages to workers on public works
subprojects would also lnject much-needed cash Lato Albania's rurdi aconomy.
4 33  The proposed project'a monltoring and evaluatLon components would result
in further beneflts by providLng feedback to adjust and shape the countrywide
Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of which this pilot li only the first phase.



- 27 -
These lessons will include information on communes and individual farmers needs,
institutional and practical constraints, priority types of projects, prices and
costs, and methods of work.
4.34 The proposed project is expected to have another set of benefits, which are
important, but difficult to evaluatet At the center, commune, and village levels
it would provide hands-on practice in evaluating projects and credit proposals,
managing investment resources, and planning and overseeing project implementation
and maintenance. The rules and practices of a market economy will, thus, be
introduced at a local as well as a macroeconomic level, strengthening new
government Lnstitutions and preparing them for a continuing role in rural
Albania's development.
4.35 Test and pre-pilot phases that included significant input from the commune
and village levels should greatly reduce project start-up problems. While local,
particularly commune, organizations are weak, the experience of the pre-pilot
phase shows that good professional staff are available and training and technical
assistance should provide them adequate support as institutional strength is
built up. Moreover, the process approach allows for continuous adjustment of the
program. The pilot phase to be supported by the proposed project would build on
the experience of the test and pre-pilot phases and would be evaluated after one
year to appraise the feasibility of a successor full-scale project. The main
risks are common to all ocial or rural development funds, and include political
interference, which would be minimized by RDFes autonomous status   The other
major risk is inherent to the learning by doing aspect of the proposed pilot
projectj thls would be minimized by strong supervision and technical assistance
supported by the project's built-in monitoring and feedback components.
4.36 While the risk of not obtaining cofinancing is relatively small, as the
cof inancers have all expressed their intentions to fund the project, aligning its
timing with the effectiveness of the proposed IDA project may be difficult. As
this cofinancing, while $mportant, is not critical to the Project's success - the
IDA-funded portion alone would make a significant contribution to poverty
alleviation and institution-building in Albania - securing it has not been made
a condition of Board presentation or effectiveness.
V. AGREEMENlS REACHED AND RECODMMTNDATION
5.1  It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a) Appointment of an RDF Executive Director and any subsequent
successors during the project period will be subject to consultation
with, and approval by, IDA (para. 3.23)
(b)   RDF will draw up Regulations and Operational Guidelines acceptable
IDA, and any changes in these manuals will only be made in
-o ultation with, and with the approval of, the Association. (para.
4.6)
(c)   The RDF will establish a Special Project Account denominated in US
dollars in a local or foreign bank acceptable to IDA. (para. 4.27).



- 28 -
(d) RDF will establish accounting procedures acceptable to IDA, have its
accounts audited internally every quarter, and submit reports of
t1hese audits to the Association. A full audit of project accounts,
by private inter-national independent auditors acceptable to rDA
will be submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
(paras. 4.30-4.31).
(e) RDF will submit to the Association quarterly progress reports on
subprojects approved for financing, the progress of village credit
funds, and monitoring and supervision results (para. 4.29).
(f) RD? will undertake evaluation of the Pilot Project for the purpose
of designing the Phase 4 Full-Scale Project eight months after
effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para. 3.19).
5.2   Conditions of effectiveness include:
(a)   Execution of an agreement under which the Government would make the
Credit proceeds available to RD? on a grant basis (para. 4.5).
(b) Compilation of RDF Regulations and Operational Guidelines acceptable
to the Association (para. 4.6).
(e) Appointment of an RD? Executive Director acceptable to the Associa-
tion (para. 3.23)
5.3   On the basis of the above-mentioned agreements and the staff appraisal, the
proposed project is considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$2.4 million, on
standard IDA terms with a 40-year maturity.



ANNX I
Page 1 of 5
IRURA1L?OVERTYALlMVATINDEMM PODC
GOVERNMENDECISION ESTABI1SHING
THE ALBANIANRURALDEVEOPMENT FUND
CHAPTER 1- General
Article 1. The Rural Development Fund, hereinafter referred to as the
Fund, is hereby established as a juridicial person for a period of four
(4) years with administratlve, technical and financial autonomy. The
Fund will be under the supervision of the Council of Ministers.
The Fund shall perform its activities pursuant to this Decree,
implementing Regulations and its Operational Guidelines.
The headquarters of the Fund will be the city of Tirana and it may
open offices in other jurisdictions within Albania.
Article 2. The Fund's objective shall be poverty alleviation in rural
areas through the financing of rural works and the promotion of economic
activities through credit, studies, technology transfer and training.
The initial target population of the Fund for rural works will be the
poorest part of the rural population, having limited, if any, cash
income and oriented mainly towards self sufficiency. Its rural credit
initiatives will address more widely farmers and rural micro-
entrepreneurs who do not have access to banks.
CHAPTER2- Gulding Principles of Fund Actiities
Article 3. The Fund's objectives shall be accomplished as follows:
As regards rural works:
The Fund will promote and finance, through grants, labor
intensive rural infrastructure construction and rehabilitation
projedts. Projects willl be initiated by the villages and
submitted to the Fund by the communes. They will be selected and
financed by the Fund according to its Regulations and
Operational Guidelines.
As regards promoting economic activities through small-scale
credit:
The Fund will, in accordance with its Regulations and
Operational Guidelines, establish loan accounts in the Bank for
Agricultural Development in favor of Village Credit Funds to
flnance small loans to farmers and other rural residents
favoring the productivity of agriculture, development of off-



Page 2 of 5
farm activities, self-employment, rural micro-enterprises, and
other productive activities undertaken by the target population.
As regards studies, technology transfer and training:
The Fund will carry out studies on Albania's rural economy,
sociology and history to assess the new situation of the rural
areas, orient the activities of the Fund, and provide basic
information for development policies. It will carry out
training, technology transfer, and advisory work activities
needed to further the main activities of the Fund.
The Fund will carry out its rural public works and credit
activities by forming contractual partnerships with local institutions.
In the case of public works activities, the Fund's partners would be
elected commune councils, elected village credit committees, and other
bodies. In each case, these contracts would make provision for the
operation and maintenance of subproject public works. In the case of
rural credit initiatives, the Fund's partners would be elected village
credit committees. Regulations governing the establishment of these
institutions, unless ot:aerwise covered by Albanian law, will be
promulgated separately.
CHAPTR 33- Revenues and Resources of the Fund
Aticle 4. The Fund's revenues comprises
* resources assigned by multilateral or bilateral aid programs,
* grants provided by the Government of Albania,
domestic and foreign donations and legacies,
X resources derived from contracted soft loans,
* capital recovery from the loans granted and the Literest earned,
* other revenues and income that may arise.
Article S. The resources of the Fund are deposited in independent bank
accounts in Albanian and foreign currency.
CHAMTR 4 - Fund's Organiational Structure
Article-6. The governing bodies of the Fund ares
* the Board of Trustees,
* the Executive Committee
Artikle-7. The Board of Trustees, hereinafter referred as "the Board"
shall be composed as follows s
* The Deputy Prime Minister;
The Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food;
* The Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance;
* The Deputy Minister of Labor, and,



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
I Representative of the Office for Local Governments
Board members shall receive no remuneration for their service.
Article A. The Board shall be chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and
during his absence by ministers in the order indicated in the preceding
article.
Artice 1. The Board shall have the following dutiess
*Approve the policies and general guidelines regulating the
Fund's activities;
•approve the Fund's annual budget;
•approve the Annual Financial Report;
. authorize negotiations and enter into agreements with the
Government of Albania and international financial institutions
necessary to achieve its purposes;
*authorize negotiations to contract the loans required by the
Fund for its operations;
*approve the necessary Regulations for the implementation of this
Decreel
*hold ordinary meetings every three months and extraordinary
meetings as often as necessary on the initiative of the
chairman;
* all other duties assigned under the corresponding regulations.
AWi¢Il IQ. Meetings will be held with the attendance of at least four
(4) board members and the decisions will be taken by the majority of the
votes.  The Board may invite the representatives of other public and
private agencies to its meetings, who should have voice but no vote.
Article 11. The Executive Committee shall be formed by:
the Executive Director
two Deputy Directors and one Financial Director
Article 22. The Executive Director shall be named and removed by the
Deputy Prime minister and shall meet the professional requirements
related to his function. The other members of the Executive Committee
are appointed by the Executive Director subject to the approval of the
Board.
Article 13. The Executive Director shall be the highest executive
authority of the Fund and shall have the following dutiest
*hold the Fund's legal representation;
*direct the operations of the Fund and implement Board d- sions;
*manage the resources of the Fund;
*select and appoint the staff;
*sign the pertinent contracts for professional and technical
services;
*prepare and propose to the Board the Regulations governing the
Fund's activities;



Page 4 of 5
* request the Board's authorisatAon to contract external auditorsl
* all other duties assigned by this Decree, its Regulations and
Operational Guidelines.
Artiele. The Executive Committee shall have among its duties the
approval or disapproval of all requests for financing submitted to the
Fund. For this purpose only, the decisions of the Executive Committee
shall be taken by the majority of votes. If the votes are equal, the
vote of the Executive Director will prevail.
Article 1I. The work relations of the staff shall be regulated by the
clauses of the signed professional or technical contracts, which shall
be subject to Albanian law.
Artill1. Staff expenses shall be financed with the Fund's resources.
The salaries of the Executive Committee and professional staff members
will be fixed by the Board of Trustees.
CHAPTERS- Aud;ing
Articlq_lU. Internal Auditors shall be responsible for monitoring the
Fund's budgetary implementation and financial operations.
The Internal Auditors shall be headed by an Auditor designated
by the Prime Minister and will report directly to the Board in
accordance with the Fund's Regulations and Operational Guidelines.
Article 18. The Fund shall be subject to external auditing by
independent international auditors acceptable to the World Bank.
Reports from the External Auditors shall be reviewed by the Board for
the corresponding legal actions.
CIAPER 6- Fna and Temporay Provisions
Articlo 19. The Fund should be exempt from any taxes, fees and charges,
or from any other national or local revenue contributions, present or to
be established in the future.
Artcle 20. The four-year lifespan of the Fund may be extended by
decree, in accordance with Albanian law. If the continuing existence of
the Fund is not determined, two months prior to the end of the term
indicated in Article 1 of this decree, the Prime Minister shall
constitute a Committee to liquidate it, which shall have the following
duties:
* transfer to the pertinent governmental bodies or Institutions,
the programs or projects not yet completed to comply with all
the pending responsibilities;
•transfer all the financial resources and all other assets from
the fund to the corresponding governmental bodies;
* submit the report of its activities to the Prime Minister and to
the agencies he deems convenient.



7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    r
F re3=55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  F.,  ..   ......................r5l5i3q
; ~ iE ........ .. ......
M ~~~~~~~~~~.. !!. ... l E£......:
HH'iH"H'iiHH£']E*'.H~~~~Miil
pun_j juewdojeAea lei~nU ueiuL2qly
)JULIO84 IUUOI1UZIUUBJO



ANNIX 2
Page 1 of 12
RURAL POVERTY U'LRM PILOT RJI
DRAFT RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND REGULATIONS
A. Rural Public Works
1. Programming and Distibution of Resources
The RDF programs its financing according to regional distribution and
distribution by sectors.
1.1 Regional Distribution
The program will be limited during the pilot phase to the 10 poorest
districts, then extended progressively to the whole country. The funds will be
assigned in two stages.
In the first stage, funds are allocated to the districtsl in the second stage,
and using the same procedure, funds are allocated to the communes of each
district.
The funds are allocated on the basis of a formula taking into consideration
population by commune corrected through three poverty indicators: arable land
per capita, percentage of arable mountain and hilly land and the rate of
unemployment.
Within the commune, mountain and hilly areas will be considered as priority
areas.
These distribution guidelines will also be used to distribute the budget
between the communes of each district.
The distribution will be revised before the end of each year and the
allocations can be changed, not exceeding 10% of the total budget.
1.2 Distribution by Sector
During the first year, 60 to 70% of the financing of the RDr is allocated to
rural works and mainly oriented towards
-     repairing cowmunal dirt roads;
-     rehabilitating village irrigation schemes; extending and repairing
existing water supply system; in some cases completing water
supply investments started before 1991;
-     repairing or reconstructing school buildings;
-     implementing new marketing facilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 12
This program will be revised at the end of the first year, based on the needs
expressed by the villages and the communes, and technical and financial
considerations.
2. Th Pojec Cycle
2.1 promotion
As it is important that the Rural Development Program be demand driven, with
the initiative being taken by the villages, a media information campaign will
be andertaken and special documentation will be sent to the communes.
22 Request from the Viage
Villages interested in Rural works Program subprojects will present requests
including general information about the village and an application form for
the specific type of rural works to be financed. This request, signed by the
head of the village, has to be approved and transmitted to the Fund by the
commune, which sends a copy to the relevant district institution for reviewing
the design and replying on a non-objection basis in a period no greater than
six days.
Eligible subprojects are registered in the database of the RDF and filed
according to their geographical location in order to optimize technical
appraisal visits.
23 Appraisal of Subprojects
2.3.1 Technicl Visits
Through its filing and planning system, the RDF ensures that all subprojects
are adequately visited by its engineers. During these technical visits, the
appraisers verify the information contained in the request for financing and
complete this infornation if necessary. They meet the village committee, the
commune representat4ve, the designer, the contractor and the technical
supervisor of the subproject.
23.2 Cost
The RDF engineers inquire also about the price of materials and labor in the
region of the subproject in order to control the cost estimates based on this
information.
The RDF will prepare progressively a cost database for the entire country.
Unit costs tables will be prepared on a regional basis, for the most
representative types of rural works subprojects financed by the RDF and
updated periodically.



AMEX 2
Page 3 of 12
23.3 Appraisal
The RDF will design report formats for each type of subproject including basic
information necessary for the analysis of each project such as labor force,
target population, cost per job generated, operation or maintenance
guarantees. The main objective of these appraisal report forms is the
collection of basic information in a systematic way for each subproject to
facilitate the decision process.
2.4 Subproject Approval
on the basis of the appraisal report presented by the appraiser, the Executive
Committee approves, rejects or request the reformulation of the subproject.
The Executive Committee meets according to the needs, at least once a week.
2S Contract Signing
After a subproject is approved by the Executive Committee, the RDF prepares a
contract to be signed by the chairman of the commune and the Fund. The
contract will be co-signed by the village head and the technical supervisor.
Within the financial limits set in the contract, the commune signs agreements
with subcontractors for labor, equipment, and materials.
The two conditions for RDF financing are that:
-     a village Council be elected by the village, even on a nonformal
basis in order to constitute a partner for the RDFs
=    An agreement is reached between the village council, the commune
and the RDF about the maintenance and the recurrent costs of the
subproject.
2.6 Disbursements
According to the type of subproject and amount to be financed, the RDF
disburses a percentage of the total sum as an advance to the commune.
Subsequently, the commune requests periodic disbursements in accordance with
the progress of the work being carried out.
-     Regarding the purchased materials and equipment the RDF covers the
invoices presented and signed by the village council, the chairman
of the commune and the technical supervisor.
-     As regards labor costs, payment will be done every two weeks
according to a daily list of working people.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 12
2.7 Supervision
The RD? implements a follow-up system with the assistance of its engineers who
periodically visit the subprojects in execution. Bach engineer is responsible
for a region of the country.
3. Appraisal Criteria
3.1 Types of Subprojects
A preliminary list of different types of subprojects eligible for RDF
financing has been established. Priority will be given to repairing existing
infrastructure rather than to new investments, and to subprojects having an
important social impact, high labor intensity and local organization impact.
3.2 Target Population
The resources of the Fund will be allocated to the communes according to
poverty indicators. These general indicators will be confirmed by RDF officers
during their field visits on the basis of village questionnaires.
The workers are selected by the village council on a voluntary basis along the
following criterias (i) inhabitants of the villages concerned, (ii) minimum
legal age, (iii) priority given to the poorest families, (iv) one member per
family employed.
3.3 Contractors
In most of the cases especially as regards roads repairing, water supply and
school repairing, the contractor will be the commune. The subcontractors can
be individual local specialists, or public or private enterprises.
In some cases (e.g., new construction), the contractor can be a private or
state enterprise. In the first stage, the choice of contractor will take into
account the price and access to the necessary materials.
As a private contracting market develops, bidding procedures will be applied.
For the first year of the program, given the relative simplicity of
subprojects and the lack of private operators, they will be prepared and
executed under the supervision of the commune with the assistance of hired
local technicians.



AMNEX 2
Page 5 of 12
3.4 Salaries and Fees
For the manual labor, the salaries to be paid on RDF-financed subprojects will
be defined according to unskilled sectoral market rates.
For some types of subprojects where the social impact is more important than
labor intensity, salaries will be below market rates in order to allow for a
contribution of the village to the financing of the subproject. This may be
the case for water supply and school repair subprojects, especially in lowland
areas where an additional cash income is not an absolute necessity.
The preparation of subprojects and technical supervision, will be remunerated
according to the amount of time spent by local technicians and engineers
rather than on a percentage basls. The RDF will constrain the adminlstrative
expenses and profit margins allowed under subprojects. These should be however
adequate enough to interest contractors and ensure quality of works.
3.5 Labor Content
Labor content is one of the criteria of the subproject approval. Although the
use of machinery, such as bulldozers, could lead to cheaper investment cost,
prLority will be given to manual work.
3.6 Materials
To help Albania's balance of payments and avoid supply problems, the RDF will
favor subprojects with high local material content. Ixceptions will be made
for subprojects with large social impact, such as water supply.
Although contractors will be directly responsible for the supply of materials,
some assistance of the RDF may be needed in the organization of imports.
3.7 Counterpart Financing
Counterpart financing of at least 5S of investment cost should normally be
required by the RDF to ensure thats
-     Good quality subprojects are presented by the communes,
-     That the cost of the subprojects is as low as possible,
-     Subprojects will be sustainable beyond RDF financing.
However, in the present situation, given the lack of local investment budgets
this contribution may be not applicable in the first stage.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 12
3.8 Cost Control
Given the extreme diversity of prices on local markets, one of the important
tasks of the program is to ensure that the prices of materials and transport
are as low as possible.
EDF will collect and disseminate information about the nationwide supply and
prices of materials and servicos. This may have an important effect on the
organization of local markets. Progressively, a computerized cost control
system, based on standard unit regLonalized prices, will be implemented and
safeguard that selection of subprojects is undertaken according to transparent
criteria.
in an inflationary situation rapid and efficient execution of subprojects will
help protect against cost increases. In some cases (e.g., when the execution
of a subproject must be organized over a relatively long period, due to
climatic conditions) subprojects may have to be re-evaluated.
3.9 Teical Viability
Subprojects will be appraised according to standard engineering,
environmental, and other technical specifications. Technical design will be
done by local technicians (usually at district level), and technical and
environmental norms, as set out in the RDP Operational Guidelines, will be
used. The following recommendations are guidelines in project design.
-    Roads will be only earth roads, 6m width (including shoulders and
drainage ditch). Special attention will be paid to road drainage
(ditches and related pipe culverts); graveling (3.5m width) can be
done in the worst parts (muddy or sloping) of the road.
-    water supply will be based on public fountains, the average being
one per four families. As most of the works will concern repairs
and/or completion of existing galvanized steel pipes networks,
this technique will be used, but new materials such as
polyethylene pipes could be tested.
-     irrigation will be based on rehabilitation of the existing works,
improvement of distribution networks (field outlets) and
minimizing water losses (lining of the canals). Priority will be
given to small gravity networks. The key question in irrigation
works will be the Water User Association which will be the local
partner, and creation of such associations will be a prerequisite
for subproject intervention.
-     Schools repairs (or construction) will be done according to the
norms of the Ministry of Education. As far as possible, local
craftsmen (brick layers, carpenters), will be hired.



ANNEX a
Page 7 of 12
3.10 Economdc appraisal (Cost Efectiveness)
In the present situation, the economic rates of return on different
subprojects would be purely artificial and very difficult to calculate. The
RDF will therefore apply a very simple methodology to evaluate the economic
impact of each kind of subproject. The main parameters used will be
-     The cost per man/month employed,
-     The unit cost per type of infrastructure subproject,
-     The investment cost per capita and/or per beneficiary,
-     The percentage of labor in the total investment cost.
These unit costs will be used to establish standard profiles for each type of
subproject and will help define maximum and minimum parameters acceptable.
Cost effectiveness will be controlled in all cases through the elaboration of
prototypes for each type of infrastructure subproject financed by RDF.
The impact of the investment on the village economy and the standards of
living of the population will be assessed through a survey made before and
after subproject execution.
3.11 SusStaabillty and Cost Recoveiry
The inter-institutional agreements between the RDF and ministries or line
agencies should ensure that subprojects are within the sectoral priorities of
the responsible institution.
In most cases the maintenance of the local infrastructure will be taken in
charge by the commune. Creation of village councils responsible for the
preservation and the daily maintenance of the infrastructure will help to
ensure the sustainability of subprojects.
Cost recovery for some type of subprojects, such as water supply, should be
considered within the framework of general tariff reform. Users fees should be
progressively introduced.
4. Techical and Financial Oversight
4.1 TechIcal audit
Technical supervision of the works will be the responsibility of the local
partner (commune), but the RDF will send technicians (infrastructure
inspector) to check the quality of works done.



Page 8 of 12
At least two oversight missions will be undertaken according to the payment
schedule:
-     Medium term payment will be made after a Technical Audit of the
works done and supplies delivered on site.
-     Flinal payment will be made after subprojects are completed and
operating and local organizations have provided acceptable
assurances that they will maintain the subproject works.
This technical audit will be carried out by RDO.
4.2 Payments
The RDF will finance and check the construction works according to detailed
cost estimate of the works. Payments will be done in three stages:
- ~.Advance payment calculated on the basis of supplies, transport and
labor costs, not exceeding 60% of the total cost (This figure will
be only for the works with high supplies component).
3     Medium term payment will be made on the request of the commune
according to the actual expenses and justified by certified
invoices. Both advance and medium term payments will not exceed 80
to 85% of the total cost.
-     Final payment will be not less than 15 to 20% of the total cost
and paid according to the actual expenses of the commune and
justified by certified invoices. Reductions in final payment can
be made by RDF according to the actual works performed
4.3 AccountIng
The local partner (commune) will keep records and provide all justifications
for the expenses related to the works.
For supplies and transport, it will provide:
-     At least two proposals before purchasing the goods or services,
-     Detailed invoices of the goods and services purchased.
-     For manpower, the local partner will provide payrolls.



AM      a2
Page 9 of 12
4.4 Brealdng of the Contact
RDr reserves its rights to break the contract if the local partner fails to
fulfil its duties or it appears that the works cannot be properly carried out
in due time and cost.
In these cases, a detailed account of th. expenses will be made and delivered
goods and supplies will remain the property of the RDF, the local partner
being responsible for them by keeping them in safety until the RDF decides
their new allocation.
Moreover, if the failure comes from the partner's side, it will lose
eligibility for any other funding under the program.
B. Village Credit Funds
1 Description and Objecthres
The Village Credit Fund Program is a partnership between the Rural Development
Fund (RDF), the Albanian Bank for Agricultural Development (ABAD), and
individual rural villages and towns represented by Village Credit Committees,
to provide small-scale credit for farmer and micro-entrepreneurs
The Village Credit Funds represent capital deposited by RDF in accounts in
ABAD for the benefit of farmers and micro-entrepreneurs in individual Albanian
villages and towns. They are administered by Village Credit Committees, who
act as agents of RDF in authorising subloans to individual villagers or groups
of villagers.
The objective of the Village Credit Funds is to provide poor rural producers
opportunities to undertake or strengthen economic activities. All profitable
economic activities, agricultural and non-agricultural, are eligible for
subloans from the credit funds.
2. EligibilIty of Villages
To be eligible for the Village Credit Fund program, villages must:
Create a Village Credit Committee in accordance with Article 4 of these
regulations;
Remain in good standing under the program's rules and regulations,
including timely repayment of all subloans.



ANUX 2
Page 10 of 12
3. Eligble Sub.bomwers
Access to credit will be available to both men and women, and to groups
of borrowers. Individual and group borrowers musts
Have a real need for credit; village credit funds will not be used to
finance initiatives that applicants could finance from their own
resources$
P-me the technical knowledge and land and/or labor resources needed to
carry out the initiative proposed for loan financLng;
Provide the guarantees or collateral required by the Village Credit
Committee under Article 4.
4. Village Credlt Committees
Vlllage Credit Committees will be created to administer Village Credit Funds.
These committees will consist of:
,VU1l.  Representatives, who will eithe  be the elected village council
or a specially elected group of three  r more villagers. The Village
Representatives will undertake a training program to learn the program's
rules and regulations;
A representative of the Bank for Agricultural Development;
.  ..
a representative of the Rural Development Fund.
Within the context of it. contract with RD?, The Village Credit Committee has
the following decision-making powers:
Selection of loan beneficiaries, interest rates, loan amounts, and
collateral or guarantees and other conditionalities needed to secure
loans;
Loan repayment amounts and schedules;
The sanctions to be enforced for late repayment of loans, or defaults;
Follow-up on loan performance.
5. Lan Consideration and Approval
Village Credit Committees will meet regularly at least once a month to
consider loan requests from village residents. Loan requests will be
considered in the order submitted, and all requests must be acted upon within
six weeks of their submission.
Village Credit Committee decisions must have the approval of a majority of the
Village Representatives present, and the representatives of the RDF and the



AtNEX 2
Page 11 of 12
Agricultural Bank. Their decisions will be delivered in writing and will
specify the borrower or torrowing group, the amount and duration of the loan,
the interest rate and fees to be charged, the amortization schedule and any
anti-inflation mechanism to be applied to repayments, and the loan guarantees
to be applied.
6& Loan Guarantees
Loan guarantees will be established by the Village Credit Committee for each
loan granted. These guarantees will take into account the size and duration of
the loan, the Committee's assessment of the risk involved. Loans may be
guaranteed, inter alia, by goods (e.g., land, houses, livestock, equipment,
crops) owned by the borrower or the borrower's family or other persons or
groups of persons.
7. Amount and Duration of Loans
The amount and duration of each loan will be fixed by the Village Credit
Committee. In order to limit risk and maximize the number of people with
access to the Village Credit Fund's limited resources, loans will, as a matter
of principle, be kept as small - and their duration as short - as possible.
8 Interest Rates and Fees
The Village Credit Committee will fix interest and other charges at a level
that, at a minimum, maintains the real value of credit proceeds and fully
covers loan administrative and management expenses. Mechanisms for maintaining
value can include, inter alia, a fixed interest rate high enough to compensate
for anticipated inflation, indexing to such norms as the price of livestock or
the lek-dollar exchange rate.
9. Role of the Bank for Agricultural Development
The Bank for Agricultural Development (AMAD) is a partner to the Village
Credit Committee and Rural Development Fund in administering and managing the
Village Credit Fund. ABAD, through its local branches, is the repository of
Village Credit Funds opened in the name of participating villages by the Rural
Development Fund. An ABAD representative is a member of each Village Credit
Committee.
ABAD is responsible for the financial management of the Village Credit Funds,
and will receive fees, set by the Village Credit Committee, adequate to cover
its administrative and management expenses. ABAD will report regularly, and at
least quarterly, to each Village Credit Fund on the status of the Village
Credit Fund and all subloans issued.
ABAD disburses subloan proceeds to - and collects subloan repayments from -
beneficiaries designated by the written decisions of the Village Credit
Committee. Disbursements will be contingent upon the execution of a subloan
agreement between the Village Credit Committee and the sub-borrower, the



Page 12 of 12
provlsion by the sub-borrower of the guarantees required by the subloan
agreemant, and adequate repayment performance on all outstanding subloans by
the Village Credit Fund.
1Q. Deault and Late Payment Prosions
Any delay or default in repayment of a subloan issued under the Village Credit
Fund will result in an imnedLate stoppage of further MAD diLbursements
against the Fund.
The Village Credit Fund will be responsible for investlgating such delays or
defaults and devising methodologLes brLnging repayments up to date, or calling
in the subloan or guarantees made against it.



AMX 3
Page 1 of 7
ALBANA
RU4 POERTY ALLVOnO "   PR
RURAL WORKS PROJECIS PRIORITIES
1. Setng Priorides
Priorities for the Rural Development Program's public works subprojects
will be set in accordance with the program's key objectivess to improve rural
infrastructure, create employment and provide support to local government and
organizations. Table 1 ranks various types of works under these criteria,
assigning a weight from 0 (No Impact) to 3 (Good), with the total setting the
priority for each type of subproject.
Table 1. Priority of Works
Rutal     Empl%mui       Loca
hfastcture    Goneaon    Oranzatow      ToWa
rrpaion/Drinae          3            3            3           9
Roes                    2            3            2           7
Secoob                  2            1            3           6
WterSupply              2            1            2           S
Ekadity                 3            0            0           3
Alfgoreatin             1            2            0           3
WatrSi Conservadon      1            2            0           3
Telephoe                2            0            0           2
1.1 Priority works
Given these rankings, the infrastructure component of the project will
focus ons
* Rural Roads (Total Impaet: 7), which have good social impact, high
labor input and involve a high level of input at the communes level
in choosing, designing, and supervising subprojects and organizing
their maintenance.
* Irrigation/Drainage (Total Impact: 9) have even higher community
involvement, as their implementation will involve organizing water
user associations. As these organizations do not yet exist, however,
subprojects in this category are likely to be started later in the
program cycle than roads liitiatives.



AMpEX 3
Page 2 of 7
* Water supply (Total Impacts 5) and Schools (Total Impact: 6) have
significant social impact, but less labor input. Local organizations
(commune and village) will be in charge of the works and
safeguarding the equipment.
* other facilities not listed above can be selected at the request of
the local population, including health centers, market yards or
other social facilities.
1.2 Non-Pority Works
other types of projects will have lower total impaet:
* Electricity (Total Impact: 3) and Telephone (Total Impact: 2)
subprojects have good social impact, but very low labor input and no
impact on local organizations.
. Afforestation and Water/Soil Conservation works (both 3) have high
labor inputs, but low immediate social impact, and, above all, the
landholding aspects are not yet clear.
2. Poposed Works
The Public Works component of the Rural Development Program will, thus,
focus on rural road repairs, water system repairs and completion, school
construction and repair, and such other subprojects as building new market
facilities. Table 2 shows the possible scope of such works that could be
financed through RDF over the four years of the Rural Development Program.
Table 2. Potential Scope of Works
Woks/ Yeas       list     2nd      3rd     4th     TOTAL
Road              1S       25       35     40        115
WaterExteion      30       S0       70     90        240
WaterRepqW        40       60       70     70        240
Iri/Drainag        2       10       15     20         47
School Repars     40       20       10     70         140
School Buiing      2        5       10     1S         32
Others            13       17       21     24          75
TOTAL             142     187      231    259         819
These estimates are based on a cautious appraisal of the capacity of
RDF and local organizations to implement infrastructure projects. In the
Program's first years, the number of operations will be limited as technical
staff has to be trained; priority during this phase will also be given to



AmLI
Page 3 of 7
repairs, which usually involve smaller and easier tasks. The size of
operatlons will grow with tmes irrigation projects and school building will
be undertaken mainly in the second part of the project. A total of 819
operations can be undertaken in four years, an average of one operation per
3.3 villages, which should have a significant impact on rural infrastructure
and employment.
3. RDF Stafng Requrements
The RDF will hire two categories of technical staffs infrastructure
field inspectors who will be in charge of identifying and supervising
subprojects, and chief inspectors in charge of coordinating the field
inspectors. The staff will be based in Tirana, and field trips be organized to
identify and supervise projects. Inspectors will work in one to three
districts to minimize transportation time and develop knowledge of local
conditions.
Table 3 shows detailed staffing requirements. The calculation is based
on the number of field days required for a single project (from 10 days for a
school repair to 20 days for an irrigation project), and the number of field
trips per inspector (16S days per year). The number of chief inspectors is
calculated on the basis of one chief for 5 inspectors; 21 infrastructure field
inspectors (10 the first year) and 4 chief inspectors (2 the first year) will
be required to manage the works program described above.
Table 3. ADF Technical Staff Requirements
Wotks               Days/Project     Ist    2nd     3rd     4th   TOTAL
Road               20               300    500    700    800    2V00
Waw Extendon       15               450    750   1,050   1,350      3,600
Wae Repais          10              40      600    700    700    :Z0
IrtrgDrain         20                40    200    300    400         940
School RepWi       10               400    200    100        0       700
Scwol uidng         1S               30      75    150    225        480
Others             15               195    255    315    360        1,125
TOTAL Inpetor das                  1,620   2,3S    3,000   3,475    1,0420
Numb. Inpect (Cum)    16S            10      14      18     21
Numb. Inmpct. (New)                  10       4       4      3
Numb. Chifs (Cum)   5                 2       3       4      4
Numb. aCefs (New)                     2       1       1       0
Staff will be selected according to technical experience (at least 5
years). it would be advisable to choose various kinds of technicians as the
project will deal with various kinds of works. We would propose the following
specializations:



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
Road speclalists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Water supply specialists . . . . . . * . . . . . 6
Irrigation/drainage specialists  . . . . . . . . 4
Building specialists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . s
Although each inspector will specialize in a specific geographic area
(1 to 3 districts), they will all exchange information about their projects
and, thus get technical advice through their colleagues. For specific problems
(such as pumping stations or hydrogecology), the fund can hire technical
consultants (short term mission) available in Albania.
In addition to their technical backgrounds, these inspectors will be
trained by the project in the fielde of local organization and intervention in
rural areas% three two-woek courses will be held each year to train project
staff.
4. Investment Costs
4.1 Undt Costs
Given the economic changes under way in Albania, unit prices for works
and supplies are difficult to estimate. As an example, the first cost
estimates prepared by local technicians (on the basis of former official state
prices) were multiplied by six to estimate roughly the actual prices
Prices of works listed in Tables 4-7 are based on actual prices
discussed with local technician and, for road and water supply extension,
these are the prices of contracts signed in September in the pre-pilot testing
phase of the Rural Development Program. Table 4 gives September 1992 prices
for works and a breakdown by categories such as labor, local and imported
supplies, traxsportation, and other.
Table 4. Breakdown of Costs for Public Works in September 1992
(In Percentage)
Water     Watr       I        School    School
Road (5 km)   Extndon   Repar    Dnangp    Rqain    Euldig
Labor               55         19       27          55      20          30
LocR Su&plies        5        33        15          60      50
lmportdSufle        28         S0         5          5       3
TrManpo             28         8         8          13       3           5
Other               12         12       15          12      12          12
Tota               100        100       100        100      100        o10
The 1992 prices cannot be kept for the whole project duration and Table
5 shows expected price increases for each cost component.



A-EX 3
Page S of 7
Table 5. Assumed Inflation Rates For Program Period
Yeaw
1st       2ad       3rd        4th
Labor               30%       30%        30%       20%
Local supplies      30%       20%        10%
Iprted supplies
Trasport            30%       20%        10%
Othr                20%       10%        10%
4.2 Totl Cost
Direct investments cost are shown in Table 6 for the number of projects
proposed and the yearly cost of each type of work. The total investment cost
will be US$19.12 million (first year: US$1.59 million). Out of this total,
roads will represent 51%, water 18%, irrigation-drainage 14%, schools 7% and
others 9%. The unit cost per subproject will rise from US$11,000 in the first
year to US$32,000 in the last year (average US$23,000) due to local inflation
and the increasing size of the projects financed.
Table 6. Cost of Works Over the Program Period
(US$ 000)
Year
works                 1st      2nd       3rd         4th       TOTAL       Perceltg
Road                 850.5   1,762-5     2985S5      4,12.0      9,7265       51%
Water  mesion        252.0     485.0      756.0      1,080.0     2,M73.0      13%
Water Repais         136.0     228.0      294.0       322.0       980.0        5%
lrrig Drain           76.4     471.0      852.0      1,368.0     2,767A       14%
School Repairs        76.0      46.0       26.0         0         148.0        1%
School Building       51.2     155.0      359.0       622.5      1,187.7       6%
Other                147.9     3125       5275        749.5      1,737.4       9%
TOTAL               1,590.0   3,460.0    5,800.0     8,17.0     19,120.0     100%
Costperprojed         11        19         25          32          23
4.3 Break-down of the Investment costs
43.1 Foreign Currencies
Foreign currency cost has been estimated for each type of work. Table 7
gives the yearly foreign currency cost for each type of project; for the four
years of the project, foreign costs will be about US$l million, 5% of total
cost.



AXMh3
Page 6 of 7
Table 7. Foreign Currency Costs
(US$ 000)
Yea
Wok                    Unit costs      1st         2nd          3rd         4th         TOTAL
Road                        0            0            0           0           0               0
Water ExtensIon          1,%60       58,0         98,000     137,200     176,400         470,400
Water Repais             I,50        60,000       90,000      0lS,000    105,000         360,000
*  Drain.                1,500        3,000       15,000      22,50       30,000          70,500
Scho Repas                 75         3,000        1,500        750           0            S,250
Sdwl Buildig              600         1,280        3,000       6,000       9,000          19,200
Other                                12,600       20,750      27,145      32,040          92S535
TOTAL                               138,600      228,250     298,S9M     352,440        1,017,885
43.2 Labor Cost
Labor is the main component of the cost, and its share of costs will
Increase as wages rise from USS1/day in 1992 to an expected US$2.60/day in
1996. Table 8 shows labor cost for each type of project over this period.
Table 8. Labor Cost Increases Over the Program Period
unit prices
Work                      92             93           94            95            96
infaon                     30%           30%          30%           20%
Dail wage (US)               1            1,3          1,7           2,2           2,6
Road                     24,200        31,460       40,900         53,170       63,800
WaterEtaenon              1,330         1,730        2,250         2,930         3,520
Water Repas                810          1,050        13             1,780        2,140
krg Dain.                16,500        21,450       27,890         36,260       43,510
School Repais               300           390         S10            660           790
School Building           6,000         7,800       10,140         13,180        15,820
The total labor cost of the project is shown in the table below. This cost
will be US$10.1 million  i.e. 53% of the total investment cost (US$19.1
million).



Page 7 of 7
Table 9. Total Labor Cost
(US S)
Wor                            is             2ad             3rd            4th           TOTAL
Road                          471,900       122,500        1,860,9SO        2,500          5,907,350
Water Eseaslon                S1,900         112,500         205,100        316,800         686,300
WatereRpaks                   42,000          82,200         124,600        149,800         398,600
ltg Dran                      42,90          278,900         543,900        870,200        1,73S,900
School Repaprs                 1,600          10,200           6,600             0           32,400
Sool Buufa                    O5,600          50,700         131,80O        237,300         435,400
Other                         63,99          1SS,700         27,29          412,610         gi99,
TOTAL                         703,90        1,714700       3160,24S       4,38710         10,11S,545
Rouned to Thouad                704           1,713          3,160          4,539           10,116
Mandays In Thousan               S42           1,008           1,436          1,746           4,732
The total labor hired will be 4.7 millions mandays, i.e., 16,700 years of
works.   Assuming that each subproject will last 2.5 month in average  (65
days), 72,800  workers will be hired by the project during the 4 years.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
ALUANA
R1RAL POVERY ALLEVIATION PILOT PRQ.
TARGETING METHODOLOGY FOR RURAL WORKS COMPONENT
Objective
Poor families mainly residing in mountain and hilly areas with very small
plots of land and without non-agricultural employment are most at risk during the
transition period.  Without a marketable surplus and unable to meet their
subsistence needs with their own production, these families depend upon an
unreliable ration system to purchase the staples of their diet (wheat, sugar and
oil) at official prices that are 3 to 4 times higher than before the reforms.
When these commodities are not available through the official ration system, they
must purchase them in private markets at prices that are 2 to 3 times the new
official prices.
The Rural Development Fund (RDF) will operate in all areas of rural
Albania. However, the Fund will target a disproportionately greater share of
resources towards the poorest families. An index of marginality is used to
identify the districts where the poorest families reside and to rank the
districts into 5 categories. The RDF's resources are then divided among the 36
-istricts on a per capita allocation weighted in favor of the poorest districts.
The process is then repeated to divide the district's resources among the various
communes.   However, the marginality index is only based on the land and
topography indicators, as the unemployment rate is not broken down by coamune.
Selection of Variables for Margnality Index
The index incorporates 3 variabless arable land per rural capita;
percentage of hilly and mountain arable land; and the official unemployment rate.
The first indicator evaluate the amount of arable land per capita among the rural
population (ex-cooperative members and state farm workers). The larger the per
capita availability of arable the more likely a family will be to satisfy their
subsistence requirements and produce a marketable surplus.
The second index is the percentage of arable mountainous and hilly land per
district.   This index reflects the level of marginality in a district as
mountainous and hilly land is less fertile and farmers living in these districts
have less access to inputs (especially water, pesticide and fertilizer) as well
as higher transactions costs to market their produce.
The third index is the official unemployment rate per district.
Theoretically, the rate is the number of people registered at the unemployment
office who were previously employed and are without work. Students who graduated
in 1990, 1991 and 1992 and have never worked are also included in the
unemployment rate. The July 1992 unemployment rate, which is used to prepave the
preliminary index, was not properly constructed as some districts include only
individuals receiving social assistance (unemployed as a result of the
July/August reforms) and exclude reglstered unemployed who are not receiving any
compensation.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
Methodology
The marginality index was formed by combining the above three indices. The
first two indices are more heavily weighted as they are better estimates of rural
poverty; people registered for unemployment are more likely to live in urban
areas and secondly regietration on the 1Lst enables them to receive unemployment
compensation (during the first year of unemployment). consequently, the land and
the topography indices are more heavily weighted in the marginality index than
the unemployment rate.
Based on the marginality index, the districts were divided into 5
categories of poverty: poorest; very poor, poor; less poor; and better-off. The
per capita allocation of the RDF5s resources among the 27 districts was then
weighted in favor of the poorer distxictss 120% for the very poor districts; 110%
for the very poor; 100 % for the poor; 90% for the less poor and 70% for the
better-off districts.



Ann 4LA
Page 3 of 4
Table 1. Agricultural Production, Land Holdings, and Incomes
by District, 1990
(In 1986 prices)
1990      1990      190 Rund                 Per Capita
Agri.     Ag4i        Pllo bn      Ar2    Agicukulr
Otput    Ld I                     (ha/fmlly)   Income
(m           ha      (000 perso")                ('.k)
Coasta Dbics             624   1,090,263        1,9.0         1.44       4,624
Shkoder                 821    163183          157.1         1.1       3,963
Lezhe                   236      37923          50.8         12        4,68
Kie                     330      4872           67.0         1.3       492
Tlran                   486      8826          120.4         13        4,037
OuKas                   w29      62871         125.7         1.5       5,004
Elbaesan                623    103232          1442          1.3       4320
Lushnje                 712      55141         106.1         1.9       6,711
Fier                    821      90652         178.3         1.8       4,605
Berat                   400      78438         110.1         1.7       3,633
Vlore                   389    114404           92.2         1A        4,219
Sarande                 335      83552          62.7         1.6       5A43
Koros                   702    163119          144.1         1.8       4,872
Mountin Dtits            1=3   1,060,134          71&0        1.22       2,623
G*dklwater              226      9Q277          39.8         1.8       5,678
TePelne                 121      60774          36.7         1.6       3297
Permet                  141      76468          30.7        2.2        4,593
Kolonje                 102      67878          17.6        2.8        5,796
Skraa                   109      88741          30.5         1.9       3,574
Gransh                  101      55505          36.7         1.6       2,752
Pograc                  148      50700          30.1         1.4       4,917
Ubrazhd                 116      77384          64.9        1.1        1,787
Dlbe                    251    114762          13.8         0.9        16
Mat                     129      75323          6&0          1.1       2.048
Mldte                   100      74168          43.9        0.7        2,278
Kukes                   189    100986           86.9        0.9        1945
Puke                     80      91072          67.4        0.6        1,187
Tropoje                  90      72316          35.8         0.9       2,514
Tatal/Averae           8167   2158397         207.7          1.4       3,933
Souce: 1991 Stlads      Yeabook of Albanf, Ministy of Finance and Ecoormy, Sattcs
De_amm
1 ndudes arabi, pasture and forest lndL
2 Projected area per family fogowin 1f1u dibution of ex-coopwatve land, scheduled for
June/July 1992.



Table 2.  Albania District Poverty Ranking
UN#EPLOT.                 ARGIN-                PoPULATION      NEIHtE                   UE16HTED    X Of
LAND      RATE %a   TOPOGRAPHY    ALIT?                  ALLOCATION    ALLOCATION      SHARE Of   SARE Of  PER CAPITA
DISTRICT         INDEX Nc      (C)        INDEX Nd     INDEX      RANKING (US$/district) USSIdistrict)  POPULATION  RESOCUCES ALLOCATION
............... ..................... ... ....._....... ...........  _,......... ... ............. ....... .........._ ...... .......... ..................., .............. .......... ....................... .....
Puke                  0.82        0.18         0.87        0.78  Poorest           127533        153039           18X        22X        1201
Nlrdite               0.77        0.12         0.80        0.72  Poorest           126122        1S1347
Tropojo               0.67        0.17         0.85        0.70  Poorest           103S72        124286
Not                   0.65        0.16         0.87        0.70  Poorest           182185        218622
Kukes/Has             0.68        0.12         0.80        0.68  Poorest           251996        302395
LibraZhd              0.65        0.20         0.80        0.67  Poorest           187423        224908
raush                 0.55        0.14         0.89        0.66  Poorest           105672        126806
Skraper               0.37        0.22         0.96        0.62 Very Poor           87437         96181           30X        33X        1101
Dlber/Outqize         0.66        0.23         0.66        0.62 Very Poor          385111        423622
Pogradec              0.48        0.13         0.86        0.62 Very Poor          153499        168848
Tepelene              0.44        0.04         0.86        0.59 Very Poor          105609        116169
Tirane                0.57        0.08         0.71        0.58 Very Poor          350052        385058
Elbasan/Peqin         0.49        0.14         0.75        0.57 Very Poor          42592?        4$8514
Sorat/Kucove          0.41        0.11         0.78        0.55 Very Poor          317521        349273
Persit                0.24        0.24         0.80        0.49    Poor             88565         88565            9X         9X        100X
Kavaje                0.41        0.17         0.56        0.45    Poor            173210        173210
Vlore                 0.35        0.09         0.60        0.44    Poor            265863        265863
Korce/Devoll          0.30        0.09         0.52        0.38 Less Poor          412839        359170           351        311         871
Fier/Natlakaster      0.37        0.24         0.42        0.38 LesS Poor          511527        445029
KolonJe               0.00        0.12         0.81        0.37 Less Poor           51378         44699
Ssrande/DeLvins       0.35        0.06         0.45        0.36 Less Poor          179940        156548
ShkoAee/Nalesia       O.S4        0.17         0.21        0.35 Less Poor          453581        394615
Gj1rokaster           0.30        0.07         0.46        0.35 Less Poor          115197        100222
Durres                0.30        0.09         0.40        0.32 Less Poor          190467        165706
Kruje/Lac             0.40        0.1S         0.26        0.31 Less Poor          194736        169421
Lushnje               0.24        0.16         0.28        0.25 Better-off         306723        221986            8X         5X        72X
Lezhe                 0.42        0.10         0.09        0.24 Better-off         146318        105896
60043.62651
Variable Wel8ht       0.45        0.10         0.45                               6000000       6000000          100X       100X        N/A
a. Officfal unhIploynent rate as of August 1, 1992.
b. Amount to be allocated (o)s           6000000.00
c. Index reflects per capita allocation aonS the rural population of arable land.
d. The percentage of mottaineois and hilly land per distriet.
- ,



ANUX S
Page 1 of 6
RIM& POERTY  lMAON FIIu  P
ALMNIAN RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM: CREDfT COMPNENT
1. Credit Demand
The determining factors Ln Albania's agrlcultural sector are the
shortage of land and the insecurity felt by peasants in the face of food
shortages, high inflation, and a lack of agricultural input and output
markets.
In this situation many small farmers are revertlag to  ubsiLstence
strategLes. This strategy, however, is linmted by very small plot sizes that
often do not allow sufficient wheat production to feed a family. Parmers are
also quite cautious on credit; they have almost no experience with it and
recognlze that it can involve an additional risk that can endanger thelr
survival strategy lf the investment realized does not lead to the expected
results. They primari1y use credit for lnputs (such as seeds, fertilizer,
pestLcides, or tractor services) to increase production on their plots, or
animals (poultry, sheep, goats, and cows for milk and meat production, and
traction animals) to diversify beyond the llmlts of their agricultural plots.
The rural market for services and processed products is not working
at all, as low monetary incomes mean all cash is spent on basic needs, and
there is little demand for credit for nonagricultural rural actlvltles. Total
credit needs do not exceed $500 per famlly, and most loans fall between $20
and $300. While these amounts appear low, the income from a hectare of wheat
does not exceed $100 and the amounts of the required loans correspond to one-
half to five times average annual incomes, a ratio close to the practice of
agricultural credit in other countries.
While farmers also need larger loans for investments in irrigation,
mechanization and off-farm activities, most of these loans should be met
directly by the Albanian Bank for Agricultural Development (ABaD). Producers
themselves say they would prefer to see available resources for the village
funds concentrated on *small" individual credits.
2. Credt Supply
Non-formal Vlage Level Systems
Although traditional informal lending systems were common ln the
villages before collectivization, they completely disappeared over the four
decades during which the state monopolized productive investment.
Loans among villagers are today almost exclusively social loans, without
interest and generally intended for emergencies in situations of crisis, such
as illness, or social obligation, such as weddings.



Page 2 of 6
A rapid reappearance of a significant supply of money from
traditional borrowers seems improbable, as land has been equally distributed
and the social and economic differentiation that was the basis of informal
lending has largely disappeared. Also, the commercial and extra-agricultural
activities that serve as instruments of socioeconomic differentiation between
families have not yet developed in most villages, and the general economic
climate of high inflation tends to lead those with money toward direct
investments.
Peasants perceive high interest rates as a mechanism of exclusion,
although discussions with farmers indicate that this is largely a problem of
explanation; peasants - and even local AAD agents - have no experience with
inflation, which has been unknown in Albania for more than a generation, and
had no concept of the relationship between interest rates - which they
considered arbitrary - and the depreciation of money. They quickly grasp,
however, explanations of economic mechanisms and the need for banks to protect
their capital against inflation. Peasants facing an unknown future inflation
rate have suggested the fixed interest rates of the Agricultural Bank be
replaced by indexing capital and interest repayments to the dollar: or the
prices of agricultural products, which would allow them to evaluate and to
better control the risks of credit.
The Albanlan Bank for Agrictural Development (ABAD)
In September 1992 The Bank for Agricultural Development was
considering four types of credit to the private sector:
• Loans of up to three months, at 25% interest, most of which would
be channeled to rural tradesmen (food, inputs, clothing) and to
private fertilizer traders under the USAID fertilizer program.
Loans up to six months, at 32% interest, for use by peasants as
credit for inputs.
Loans of up to one year, at 39% interest, for inputs and
processing industries such as bakeries and dairies.
Medium-term credits of 3 to 5 years with an interest rate of 40%
for cattle acquisition and rural enterprises (transportation).
ABAD has allocated the bulk of its available funds (lek 350 million)
to private-sector creditl. In July 1992 ABAD raised interest rates from 8-10%
to 25-40% to partially compensate for inflation. As potential customers were
not familiar with inflation, this has led to a decrease in demand for new
loans. In Albania's poorer hilly and mountainous areas demand is almost
nonexistent and is limited to the very small co¢mercial and non-agricultural
sectors.
ABAD's weakness in small-scale rural credit stems from its roots in
the State Bank, which was not a bank in the sense of a modern institution of
J/  As of June 19 BAD had tk 350 mititon fn cutstndinW loans to the private sector, and tek 2.8
billion outstanding to the publt sector.



ANNEX S
Page 3 of 6
financial intermediation, but rather a state agency responsible for paying
salaries and balancing accounts between state enterprises. Most rural ABAD
staff are former cooperative cashiers; they are good bookkeeper, but lack the
training and experience to understand the mechanisme of inflation and its
consequences on banking activities, analyze demand and conceive appropriate
financial products, understand profitable financial intermediation, or build a
rural banking service in a market economy.
ABAD staff also lack equipment, such as calculators, and have largely
adapted the old cooperative ledgers as their means of keeping accounts. Fund
shortages often restricts new lending for weeks at a time, particularly as the
district banks are only allowed to recycle part of repayments into new
loans.2 ABAD's strengths lie in the motivation and comnmitment of a great
number of employees, and its good bookkeeping capacities. ABAI's procedures
also constrain small farmer access, as the documentation required for a loan
can take several weeks with many trips to the district town, and the procedure
for small loans is almost identical to that for larger ones.
Village Funds ap an Alternative Source of Credit
the concept of village credit funds was developed from surveys,
discussions and work sessions in Elbasan district villages to define with the
farmers themselves a financial mechanism that would meet their need for easy
and real access to small loans while insuring the sustainability of the
financial system by covering transaction costs and preserving invested capital
against devaluation by inflation. Another consideration was the inclusion of a
savings mobilization elent to allow withdrawal of external funding of the
system over the medium term.
Peasant requirements for a new financial mechanism include:
e Procedures that make access to credit simple.
* Loan duration, amount, and the modalities of reimbursement must be
adapted to the economic activity supported by the loan, and
specific conditions should be set up for each sort of investment
activity. In general, credit will be individual, but group credit
could be considered for some purposes, such as irrigation systems.
* Credit should take into consideration the general situation of the
village. In a village that is short of pastureland, for example,
credit for cattle acquisition should be limited to poor families
who do not have animals and not be used to increase overall herd
size beyond carrying capacity. Credit also should not be
appropriated by only one group in the community; the peasants feel
credit should be an instrument for strengthening social cohesion
and not the contrary.
21  GAD interest rates are also a political issu, and Parliatent excluded BAD the banking law so that it
coutd tend at a subsidized rate. In tho absence of nrces"ry means for such a step, the SAD finds
itself in an uncomfortable situation today betmeen the polftical constraints on one hand and the
budgetary constraints on the other.



MX 5
Page 4 of 6
* The system of loans to be Get up must have moderate transaction
costs. Villages are ready to contribute to this by taking over
large parts of credit processing.
* Guarantees and collateral must be appropriate and modulated in
according to the amount borrowed, the risk of the proposed
activity, and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Rather than
using mortgages for small loans, they suggested social or material
guarantees (equipment, animals, crops, etc.). This will
considerably reduce the cost of access to credit and delays in
granting loans. Strong village structures can contribute to social
control of repayment and allow appropriate conditionalities.
Peasants think the village is the relevant unit for the
organization of the loan system.
Peasants agree that interest rates must cover the costs of the
service provided and preserve the value of borrowed capital in an inflationary
environment. They seek, however, to minimize their own inflation risks, and
have suggested indexing interest to dollar values or agricultural product
prices.
Their preferred solution to their lack of accessible formal or
informal credit is the creation of a fund reserved for the village, using
ABAD's management capacity to handle bookkeeping and accounting. Thus, each
village fund would have an account with ABAD, with individual loans expressed
as subaccounts.
Most peasants have never been granted a loan in the past. All the
peasants are preparing for their second growing season in a private economy.
Most farmers recognize they will need to invest - at a minimum in agricultural
inputs - to raise production. While pointing out the necessity of a credit
system, peasants simultaneously express a need for education and training to
enable them to make good choices, and say they would like to involve
specialists, such as agronomists or veterinarians in their investment
decisions. They want the credit system to be under local control and have
predictable repayments.
Testing the Village Fund Concept
The Pre-Pilot Phase of the Albanian Rural Development Program set up
model village credit funds based on these criteria in seven mountain villages
in the Elbazan district in September 1992.
Village credit committees were established with one representative
for each quarter of the village, with representatives of the working group set
up as a predecessor to the planned Rural Development Fund and the Bank for
Agricultural Development acting as advisors. The committees, based on the
general regulations that govern village credit funds, make all decisions
concerning fixing positive interest rates, loan recipients, guarantees to be
provided by creditors, the fixing of reimbursement terms, and sanctions to be
taken in case on arrearages or defaults. Any delay in repayments automatically
blocks any new loans. Bookkeeping is provided by ABAD.



amLI
Page 5 of 6
The village committees fix for each type of loan a guarantee to be
provided by borrower. It can be a material guarantee or a joint security. The
requirement will depend on the loan amount, its duration, the risk entailed by
the undertaken activity and the borrower's situation. The aim of this
flexibility in guarantees is to make use of the committee's knowledge of
potential borrowere.
The system is also designed to improve MAD's capacity to manage
funds so that it, in turn, can sustain the Rural Development Fund with its
management skills. Thus, RDF opens for every village fund opens an account in
the nearest ABAD branch, where its funds are deposited at the interest rate
commonly applied for deposits. For each loan, the village credit committee
requests from the Bank the opening of a subaccount and the paying out of the
corresponding amount, and peasants repay directly to the ABAD branch.
The village committees, thus, do not handle cash, and all accounting
management is done by ABAD, which blocks payments to a village if there are
delays in repayment. While MAD pays interest on deposits, it is paid service
charges for its account-keeping and the expenses of its agent in the villages.
The repayment rate fixed by the village committee covers
intermediation fees, the costs of the working group, ABAD's fees, and
inflation costs, which are pegged to the U.S. dollar. Transaction (and
emergency fund) costs are set at 5S of the loan amount.3
The test village funds were set up on the basis of interviews and
surveys in a number of villages in Ulbazan. An Albanian credit officer was
recruited and trained, regulations and loan request forms drawn up, and
village committees established in the seven villages.
By mid-November 1992 84 loans totalling $24,000 had been approved,
and another 40 loans for some $6,000 were in the final stages of processing.
Loan sizes ranged from $47 to $209, and their duration was from I to 4 years,
with most running 2 years.
Most loans were used to purchase animals, which, given uncertainty
about inflation and wheat prices, seemed to farmers the most secure form of
investment. Some 40% of the loans were used to buy small ruminants, 36% for
milk cows, and 19% for oxen. The remaining 5% was used for irrigation
improvement.
Establishing Village Credit Funds Under the Pilot Project
The village funds will be established using deposits by the Rural
Development Fund (using resources provided by external donors) to AAD
accounts in favor of participating villages. The amount of each fund will
J/ The 5X fee has been calculated on the basis of one project employee handling 30 villages at a cost of
about St,500 a year for salary, office spao, and transport (motorcycle). SD  bookkeeping and account
management costs are calcuteted at $6,000. The work of the village comisttee is voluntary. Each village fund
fs expected to handle some $10,000 worth of loans a year. and total eosts of $13,500 is 4.5X of the $300,000
handled by 30 vIl  ages. A 0.5X fee has been added for an emergency fund. The fee structure will be
ressess  as more experfence fs sained.



ANEX -S
Page 6 of 6
determined by ROY according to available resources and the specific situation
of each village. If we assume that the need that must be covered with this
system of credit is about $100-300 for half the families in a village, this
corresponds for a medium size village of 100 to 200 families to $l0,000-lS,000
per village. A starting fund of S0% of the final amount seems to be
sufficient.
Mechanisms for mobilizing rural credit from the villages - perhaps by
adding a mandatory savings component of as much of 10% to loan repayments -
will be tested during the pilot phase. The savings mechanisms would be
deposited in individual interest-bearing savings accounts within the village
fund, which would be managed in the manner of a savings and loan institution,
which would be used to progressively replace RDF funds. This system includes
an initial grant element, the planned mobilization of rural savings would
provide a stable basis tc the future rural credit system.
3. Conclusion
Farmers in Albania are going through a difficult period of transition
from a state cooperative system to private agriculture. Credit can be a very
important element in this transition. A system of village funds that combine
local knowledge of creditworthiness with the management skills of the Dank for
Agricultural Development can be an answer to this problem.
This system should be able to handle the very small loans that
account for the bulk of demand through a mechanism that is clear and
understandable to the farmers.
For the BAD, the Village Funds can provide a new approach to poor
private farmers and their families, for whom an individual and direct approach
would require overly transaction costs due to the low amount of their loans.
The system, as it is proposed, fulfills all the durability conditions
for rural financial systems, as it covers all transaction costs, has interest
rates sufficiently high to preserve the capital value against inflation, and
integrates a saving scheme that gives borrowers participation in the capital
of the financial system.



ANNX 6
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
RURL POVE  ALLOJN PILOT PROJEC
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ROF Vehicles                    Number             Unit Cost           Total
(US S)
Sedans                          1                  15,000               15,000
4-Wheel Drive                   7                  25,000              175,000
Minibus                         1                  40,000               40,000
Motorcycles                     6                   3,000               18,000
Total                           15                 ---                 248,000
RDO Office Equipment
computers                       4                  3,000               12,000
Printers                        2                  2,000                4,000
Copiers                         2                  3,000                6,000
Telex                           1                   5,300               5,300
Fax                             1                     950                 950
Telephone                       3                     300                 900
Misc. Furniture                 1                   12,000             12,000
Total                           --                 --                  41,150
RDF Recurrent Costs
Salaries
Executive Director              1                   15,840              15,840
Senior Staff                    4                  14,160               56,640
Infrastructure Staff            10                 12,240              122,400
Credit Staff                    5                  12,240               61,200
Other Professional              3                   12,240              36,720
Bookkeeper                      1                  10,920               10,920
Secretaries                     2                  10,200               20,400
Driver/Mechanics                9                    9,720              87,480
Total ^taff                     35                   --                411,600
Vehicle Operating Costs         --                   --                 73,100
Total Recurrent Costs           --                 --                  484,700



MLX 6
Page 2 of 2
Training
Xquipment                      --                 __                   7,300
Courses for Staff                                 --                  45,520
Study Trips                    --                 --                  38,000
Commune Staff Course                              --                  96,660
Businese Courses                                  --                  32,220
Total                          --                 --                 219,700
studies & Technology
Village Profiles               --                 --                   5.000
Technical Support              --                 --                  22,600
Pilot Operations               --                 --                  40,000
Total                          --                                     67,600
Technical Assistance
Rural Works Advisor            1                  197,540            197,540
Rural Credit Advisor           1                  197,S40            197,540
Short-Term
Consultancies (total)         OS                 197,540             98,770
Total                          2.50                --                493,850
12 months additional
Recurrent Costs, Technical Assistance, Monitoring                    870,000
Public Works                                                      1,590,000
Rural Credit                                                         750,000
Grand Total                                                        4,765,000



ANNMX 7
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMEN SCHEDULE
(US$ =MUD)
Bank Fiscal Year
and Quarters       During Quarter            Cumlative
4th Quarter        O.S0                      0.50
1m
2nd Quarter        0.50                      1.00
4th Quarter        O.S0                      1.S0
am
2nd Quarter        0.50                      2.00
4th Quarter        0.40                      2.40



aNNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
ALDAMS
RUiRAL POVE,TY ALEAIN PILOlrTQ1T
STUDIES, TECHNOLOGY, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND TRAINING
1.    Studies
While the far-reaching land reform achieved in less than a year shows
the adjustment capacity the Albanian peasantry, the private farm in Albania is
too new a phenomenon to be fully understood by policy makers. For farmers
themselves, the only point of reference is the pre-war period that only old
people can remember.
Albania has a 3,000-year history but the last 50 or 60 years were
largely erased by the communist regime. The identity of a community is its
history. Everybody needs it to build up his self-confidence and project
himself in the future. Thus, the first component of the rural studies will
consist in interviews of with older village inhabitants about local traditions
of labor organization, land ownership, off-farm activities, village
organization, informal credit, etc. before collectivization. Short video
films presenting these interviews would be used in project's training, and may
also be shown in local schools.
The second component of the studies will be an inventory of the village
problems: access to markets, water and energy supply, land use, management of
local resources such as irrigation, pasture, forest, which, for the moment
still belong to the state. This study is essential to make policy makers
fully aware of the constraints faced by farmers1 and to define the
responsibilities of the village head and the village council created by the
law of September 15, 1992. According to this law, inspired by the old
*Kryeplaku" and "Kryepleqesia e fshatit" system2, the head of the village,
elected by the representatives of the village quarterss (a) takes care of
protecting public order in the village; (b) takes measures to meet needs such
as burial services, maintenance of cultural and sports facilities, roads,
sewage, telephone lines, electricity, etc.; (c) defines methods of using
potable water resources, irrigation waters, and rules for exploiting pastures
and forests; (d) reviews requests and claims of village inhabitants and tries
to settle disputes; and (e) takes measures to improve and protect the village
environment.
al One of these constraints is, for instance, the lack of farm buildings and
the lack of space in the village to build them. The cows are kept in the
garden, the crops are stored in the kitchen and the manure is piled up on the
village road, creating a public health and environment problem.
21 "The old head of the village" and "the old people council" grouping the
heads of the quarters were the traditional local government of the village.
The representatives elected in September 1992 are not necessarily old.
I



ANNX a
Page 2 of 5
Prom the project's point of view, this part of the study, which would be
carried out in all villages alongside rural works or credit components, is
essential for prioritizing the infrastructure works and calculating proper
maintenance and recurrent cost financing, which is a condition of RDF
investment.
A sample farm survey (about 20 farms in each village benefiting from the
village credlt scheme) will focus on production factors (land, labor,
equipment, inputs), choice of products (crops, cattle, ruminants, etc.),
household budgets, and the attitudes and motivations of the farmers toward
land ownership, employment, migration, services provided by the state and by
the private sector.
This sample survey will supplement the International Fertilizer
Development Center country-wide study financed by USAID. It will complete the
urban population household study financed by UNDP in Tirana and provide
valuable information for poverty assessment. Beneficiary asseasment will be
carried out at commune council, village council, and individual farm levels.
All the studies will be conducted in the villages by ex-cooperative
staff, who are now largely unemployed. This will allow for very low costs
but, above all, it will help the technical staff to take another look at the
farmers who were, one year ago members of the cooperative "brigade" under
their control. The output of the study will be essential for monitoring the
project, and exposing the former cooperative technicians to potential future
clientele will be important for the organization of a future extension
service.
The studies component will be set up by RDF with the support of local
research centers. It will help Albanian acadcsics retrain themselves in a new
anthropological approach. Cost estimates are in Tk'le 1, below.
2.
The technologies used in Albania's agricultural sector are large-scale
and obsolete. The challenge is to introduce modern small-scale technologies,
adapted to the new production and market pattern.
The main sectors where these technologies are needed are:
-     Cereals processing (some small and very obsolete mills are already
functioning under private ownership and bakeries will have to be
modernized as rising farm incomes allow farm families to buy their
bread rather than bake it themselves).
-     The dairy sub-sector, which will require small milk processing
plants supplying the urban markets and cheese plants for goat and



MM a
Page 3 of 5
sheep milk which could be produced at very competitive prices for
the export market.3
Fruit and vegtables processing could be developed not only in *.e
present canneries, but also using drying techniques at the village
level.
Tobacco is already being prossed at the farm level, and
techniques could be improved.
Poultry, eggs and production could be developed in small
production units for the local market.
-    Wool processing and carpet making could be rehabilitated at
village level in relation with the development of tourism.
-    Local carpentry, blacksmith, mechanical shops could be modernized
and put to work, as the former cooperative artisans are still in
the village but generally jobless for lack of markets, raw
materials, and equipment.4
-    Rural tourism could be organized using methods applied in BC
countries.
Transfer of small-scale technologies could be organized by the RDF in
cooperation with the EC-supported SME Support Unit, and by using technical
assistance from specialized institutions in EC countries and promoting direct
exchanges or joint ventures with the EC. Ten pilot operations are budgeted for
the pilot phase. Table I shows the cost of studies and technology components
for the four-year program.
Table 1: Rural Developmnt Program Studies and Technology Costs
It Year    Lnd         3rd         4h          TOTAL
Village Profiles  5.000      13.000     25.500      40.000      83.500
Technical Support    22.600  22.600     22,600      22,600      90.400
Pilot Operations  40.000     72.000      115.200     158.500    385,700
TOTAL            67.600      107,600     163.300    221.100      559,600
3.   Tehnkal Assistance
The Project includes 56 person-months of technical assistance that would
include two full time expatriate advisors to RDF for two years, one to assist
l/ The present price of sheep choose is 60 leks/kg (6 cents) as compared to
$16 on the SC markets.
A/ The price of a village produced ax is now 1S leks. It does not cover even
the price of the raw material.



ANNX a
Page 4 of 5
the rural public works component, the other to assist the small-scale rural
credit component. The remaining funds would be used for shorter-term
consultancies for such tasks as, inter alia, developing environmental c ..teria
and training RDF staff in their application.
The rural works advisor will assist the Infrastructure Department of RDF
and help organize liaison with the communes and villages to identify and
inventory priority small-scale works suitable for labor-intensive subprojects
that can be implemented at the local level. The advisor will assist in
assessing local management capacities, creating materials lists and technical
norms, and ldentifying local partners to carry out subprojects. The rural
credit advisor will assist the RDF Promotion of Economic Activities Department
in surveying villages to determine the sizes and types of initiatives likely
to be put forward for loans, determining local credit and collateral
traditions and adapting them to village credit fund mechanisms, and building
working relationships with local branches of the Bank for Agricultural
Development and village credit committees. Both consultants will undertake
training of RDF staff, and help the agency develop its budgeting, accounting,
and other operating procedures.
Table 2 shows estimated costs for technical assistance under the four-
year Rural Development Program:
Table 2: Estimated Technical Assistance Costs
lot Year     nd       3rd        4th         TOTAL
Rural Works        197,540   237,048   98,770    49,385          582,743
Advisor
Rural Credit       197,540   237,048   98,770    49,385          582,743
Advisor
Short-Term         98,770    48,872    65,846    49,385          262,873
Consultancies
Total              493,850   522,968   263,386   148,155         1,428,359
4.    Taining
The first task of the RDF will be to recruit and train its own staff,
organizing short training courses alternating with field work in the communes
and the villages where actions have already started under Phase I and II of
the program.
Infrastructure projects with the communes and credit operations with the
farmers are a perfect carrier for training in new market economy skills:
project evaluation, financial management for the commune staff, business
planning, management and marketing for the private farmers and rural micro-
entrepreneurs.



ANNEX a
Page 5 of 5
The training courses organized by the RD? will have an immediate
application both for its own staff involved in rural works or small credit
operations and for the commune staff or the individual farmers, what is the
only way to enhance the real value of the training investment.
Table 3 shows training costs for the four-year program periods
Tebte 3: Rural Dowtopment Proram Training Costs
1st Yar                   kg i} 
Equipment                  7,300        -             -            -             7,300
Courses for Staff         45S.20        49,460        4,990        9.630         209,780
Study Trips                38,000       76,000        76,000       76.000        266.000
Compow Staff Courses       96,660       124,320      S9,280       174,160       554,420
Busirness Courses          32,220       71,040        79.640       87,080        269,980
TOTAL                      219,700      321,000       369,910      396,870    1,307,480



Annex 9
Page 1 of 7
RURAL ItOV13TY ALLEVIAMIO  PILOT  R EC
LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE WITH SOCIAL FUNDS
With the wave of structural adjustment programs and the increased
focus on poverty alleviation since the mid-1980s, many countries have adopted
special programs to deal wlth the impact of the reform programs on the poor.
Lacking sufficient technical and administrative capacities to transfer
resources rapidly to low income families, many governments have created
autonomous Social Funds (SF) able to collaborate effectively with community
groups, NGOs and local government institutions. The major areas of
intervention of the SF ares labor intensive public works programs, support for
micro enterprises basic social services, as well as training and placement
services. The most important component tends to be public works, which often
accounts for more than 50% of the fund's expenditures.
Bolivia's Emergency Social Fund (ESF), initiated in late 1986, was
the first major SF supported by the Bank that aimed to alleviate the impact of
a adjustment program on the poor. Since then the Bank has supported many
other social funds in Latin America (Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua), Africa
(Guinea, Mauritania, Senegal, Benin, Niger, Burkina Fasso, Mali, Zambia,
Somalia, etc) and Asia (Indonesia). The proposed rural development fund in
Albania will be the first SF for a transition economy in Eastern Europe.
Social funds are most effective when used in conjunction with a
national strategy for poverty alleviation in the areas of health, education
and basic sanitation. The attractiveness of SFs as an instrument of social
policy reflects their ability to:
* disburse large sums of money rapidly with low administrative costs
that are generally below 10% and often less than 5%;
* decentralize government functions by relying upon community
organizations, local government institutions and NGOs;
* provide a channel to funnel large quantities of foreign and
central government funds to many small projects;
* support the development of the private sector and in particular
private contractors;
* build basic social and economic infrastructure with a high rate of
return;
* provide low cost social services to the poor;
* provide a model of efficient delivery of public services for line
ministries and
* finance visible accomplishments which shore-up the government's
reform program and increase its sustainability.
The principal drawbacks of a social fund are that rapid disbursements
and flexible decision are often at the costs ofa a long-term development
oriented social policy; high quality subprojects and; investments that do not



Annex 9
Page 2 of 7
reach the poorest of the poor (often the most difficult to reach). Social
funds cannot substitute for a national poverty alleviation strategy in the
areas of health, education, and basic sanitation.
KEY INGREDIENOM  FOR SUCCESS
Cleiay Deflned Objecties
Social funds with a few clear objectives and a well-defined target
population are easier to set-up and implement than funds that try to respond
to all issues and groups (rural poor, urban chronic poor, unemployed, etc)
affected by the adjustment program.
An Autonomous Fleidble Organizatioi
To promote efficiency and accountability, the social fund should be
free from political interference and exempt from the civil service law to
benefit from flexible funding, procurement, disbursement and hiring
procedures. To attract high quality staff, the fund must be free to offer
private sector salaries and to hire its staff and appraise projects on
strictly technical grounds. Much of the success of the Bolivian Emergency
Social Fund and the Bolivian and Honduran Social Investment Funds was
attributed to the exceptionally capable, hard-working, and honest staff and
leadership of the funds. The role of individual managers was also important,
and their personality and competence played an important role in motivating
the staff.
Most governments have opted to create a separate institution under
the office of the president or prime minister, reflecting their limited public
sector institutional capacity and the desire to ensure the fund's full
administrative, technical and financial autonomy (Bolivia, Guatemala,
Honduras, Sao Tome and Principe). However, a new institution raises problems
of competition for scarce management talent, rivalry with existing ministries,
and concerns about how the work of the fund will fit into the overall
planning, budgeting, and coordination process of the government. Some
governments have established interministerial committees with broad oversight
powers to assume responsibility for cross-cutting policy and strategy
questions. In addition, granting the fund temporary status makes it easier to
exempt it from standard civil service rules and limits problems of rivalry
with other government institutions. On the other hand, a fund's temporary
status can cause problems in assuring a smooth transfer of responsibility back
to the relevant permanent public agencies.
Some countries have preferred to integrate the fund under a line
ministry, usually the ministry of planning (Guinea and Somalia). This option
reinforces existing institutions and allows government personnel to benefit
from the training programs and overall experience with the Fund. However,
unless clearly specified this type of fund can be more constrained by
government regulations, especially with respect to procurement and operating
procedures.



annex 9
Page 3 of 7
Unconventional procurement procedures facilitate rapid disbursement
and are especially important to permit the fund support small projects in
isolated rural areas and to use local contractors. A system of uniform unit
prices and a schedule of standard rates for domeatic materials and labor costs
are used and regularly updated by the SP. This permits the sub-projects to use
local contractors who lack experience with procurement and contracting
procedures.
Development Local Government and Community Organizations
Social funds work with both governmental and private sector
institutions, exploiting their comparative advantages and fostering the
development of both sectors. The social funds focus on sub-project appraisal
and supervision leaving the detailed work of project formulation and
implementation to the soliciting and supervising agencies that supply untold
person years of labor. This reduces the staff requirements and increases the
size of 8Fs' subproject portfolio.
To compensate for the weak institutional capacity in many developing
countries, particularly at the community level, SFs rely heavily on NGOOs to
carry-out sub-project preparation, implementation (procurement, administration
of funds, etc) and supervision activities. In particular, NOOs have been very
involved in the administration of local solidarity based credit funds (see
below). They tend to be grass roots organization and have a comparative
advantage ir working closely with low-income groups; they often already have
experience in the design, implementation and evaluation of small development
projects at the community level. It is important to select serious W0Os who
have a proven rack record in the type of subproject presented.
A demand-driven institution is subject to the criticism that its
spending patterns are subject to the whims of its potential beneficiary
population and to the capacity of preparing and executing agencies. Many sFs
offer a standard sub-project menu to provide the Government with some control
over what they will finance, to link their investment program to the
Government's social and economic public investment strategy and to facilitate
project preparation and appraisal. sponsors choose from a menu of subprojects
(e.g. road repair, rehabilitation of primary schools and health posts, etc)
based on the standard construction norms and plans of the appropriate line
ministry. The use of a menu, together with extensive pre-screening,
encouraged high quality subprojects and contributed to a low subproject
rejection rate of about 2 percent for the Honduran Social Investment Fund
(FHIS).
Poverty Focus
Resource targeting and subproject promotion activities are two
instruments used by many 81s to ensure that their resources reach poor
communities and that their principal goal of poverty alleviation is advanced.
The methodology used by SFs to target resources towards poor communities
should be simple, relatively easy to implement and should be used as a
guideline for resource allocation and not as a strict standard which must be
fully implemented. Targeting systems have obvious advantages but can also



Annex 9
Page 4 of 7
raise administrative costs and increase sub-project identification and
preparation times lowering disbursement rates. The targeting scheme of the
Honduran FHIS distributed resources between the districts and municipalities
according to a poverty index based on sanitation, water supply and child
malnutrition indicators to ensure that poor communities received a higher per
capita allocation that less poor communities.
The wage policy of SFs also helps to target their resources towards
the poor. By offering market wages for manual labor SFs automatically attract
workers who are predominantly poor, i' not the poorest of the poor. Empirical
studies have proven that social funds employ participating households where
average income is below the poverty line.1 The high content of wages in the
sub-project costs, often required to be least 50%, also assures that the poor
are the principal beneficiaries of SPe.
The type of project financed by SFB also determines whether the poor
will benefit from the infrastructure investment. Social funds also tend to
focus on the provision of small-scale, technologically simple basic
infrastructure (water and sewage systems, rehabilitation and expansion of
basic social services, etc.) that is most lacking in poor neighborhoods.
Basic infrastructure projects are also easier to prepare, implement and
maintain thereby increasing the access of poor communities to the resources of
SPs. Finally, the use of a project menu also simplifies project preparation
and decreases preparation costs which facilitates the access of poor
communities to sub-projects.
The experience of the Bolivian ESP has shown that poorer communities
have the least capacity to prepare subprojects. Despite the plethora of unmet
demands, prospective projects from the poorest communities are either poorly
conceived, inefficient in their use of funds or lacking in know-how. Special
efforts should be made with poorer communities to: disseminate information on
the objectives and procedures of SPs; provide technical assistance to local
organizations to assist in project identification and preparation; and
reimburse certain project preparation expenses. Promotion activities should
be an integral part of the Sr's operations; the Honduran FHIS had a separate
promotion unit for infrastructure, basic needs and informal credit sub-
projects. In addition, UNDP supported a institutional development program in
40 of the poorest municipalities in Honduras to help train local officials in
subproject evaluation and supervision.
Sustainablity
Many SFP structure subprojects to ensure the oustainability of the
investment and its benefits. First, SPF tend to support subprojects with low
recurrent costs and give priority to rehabilitation subprojects, and in some
cases expansion, rather than new construction. When they do engage in
construction, before the subproject contracts are signed, the fund requires
confirmation from the aj_ - oriate line ministry or government institution that
1/ MartIn Ravallion, "Reaching the Rural Poor Through Pubtic Emptloment: Arguments, Evidence and Lessons
from South Asfa," The eorld 8ank Research bseer- Vol. 6, no. 2 (JuLy 1991): 154-175.



Annex 9
Page 5 of 7
the recurrent costs (new teachers or nurses, etc) are included in the budget.
Social funds have also undertaken considerable efforts to ensure the
sustainability of water and sewerage subprojects, which have major maintenance
requirements. All subproject contracts in Honduras have a clause requiring
the final owner of the project, the National Water and Sewerage Service, to
provide for cost recovery and maintenance. In addition, before the contact is
signed the community must create a local committee to raise fees to cover the
operation and maintenance costs of the water and sanitation systems. The FHIS
has contracted with a NOO to provide technical assistance to the poorer
municipalities to setup and strengthen the water committees.
The involvement of communities in the design and implementation of
sub-projects also helps to ensure the sustainability of the sub-projects at
the local level. counterpart financing or contributions in kind (labor or raw
materials) should be required from beneficiaries as agreed upon when the
subproject is appraised, to ensure that good quality subprojects are presented
and that they will be sustainable beyond SF support.
Accountability
Accountability mechanisms help keep the S8e "honest without taking
away operational flexibility. Many funds regularly report subproject lending
commitments on an ex post basis to the President, the Congress and the press,
which increases the transparency and accountability of the funds lending
operations.
An efficient management information system facilitates subproject
administration and monitoring, helps sponsors and donors track the status of
their subprojects, and ensures the transparency of the Funds' lending
operations. In addition, an MIS helps social funds to easily monitor the
implementation of their targeting program.
Regular audits monitor the quality of sub-projects and also ensure
the accountability of SFs. Despite the fact that IDA only requires annual
audits, the Honduran PHIS is audited every six months by a private,
independent external auditor. In addition, there are more in-dept quarterly
audits that combine financial revisions with the physical inspection of works
in the field.
Other Characteristics
A Pilot Demonstration is effective to fine tune project operations
and to attract cofinancing. The Bolivian USP started operations with a
commitment of only US$10 million, a fraction of its investment goal of US$180
million; as the ESF demonstrated that it could effectively absorb large
quantities of resources, additional commitments from a number of donors, as
well as a second World Bank credit became available.
A monitoring comuonent is useful, especially during the pilot phase,
to receive feedback to improve project performance and design and to allow for
the diversification of or modifications in the SF's subproject menu. In



Anneax 9
Page 6 of 7
addition, regular beneficiary assessments improve subproject quality and
sustainability by ensuring that the subprojects are planned and implemented
with a knowledge of people's values, are responsive to their needs and adapted
to their behavior.
Public Pelations. From the start the SP should have a public
relations component which uses radio, newspapers and television to disseminate
information on the SF, its goals and procedures, and to build confidence in
its ability to deal fairly and promptly with the soliciting communities. This
raises the demand for subprojects, improves the image of the fund, and
highlights the government's efforts to alleviate the social costs of
adjustment.
Donor Management. Social funds should have a uniform set of
procedures that donors must follow, the latter should not be allowed to design
their own program and procedures. Donors, funds should be disbursed against
SF6' overall portfolio, or to certain categories of projects therein. This
will reduces staff time spent on managing donor funds.
Technical assistance and trainina are required to increase the
capacity of the social fund. Training courses should includes administration,
pub:.ic relations, community development, project design, appraisal,
supervision and evaluation. In addition, there should be resources for local
and international seminars and study trips. An internationally recruited
technical advisor and consultants with experience in project financing and
social funds might also be hired to assist the project director. Local staff
from social funds in other countries are often used as short-term consultants
to provide training and to set up the fund's procedures and manuals during the
early phases.
Credit Funds
Several SF have included credit support to micro-enterprises. The
overall size of the credit programs is often very small and many of the
programs are pilot operations. The credit component of the Honduran FHIS has
been very successful in supplying credit to urban and rural micro-
entrepreneurs who do not have access to commercial banks   The project's mid-
term review identified several key factors behind the success of the FHIS
programs
FHIS does not do the lending itself, but delegates this role to
NGOS specialized in credit to the informal sector;
market rates are charged to final beneficiaries, providing
sufficient incentives to the NGo to undertake the subloan
evaluation and ensure proper recovery and adequate capitalization
of the revolving fund;
* NOO assume the full credit risk vis-a-vis the PHIS which gives
them incentives to collect subloans;
* PHIS requires significant cost sharing (about 20%) from NGOs which
incites them to present quality subprojects;
* the NM0s must have recovery rates of at least 95 percent; and



Annex 9
Page 7 of 7
solidarity group lending ensures loan recovery without requiring
physical or fiduciary guarantees.
Lessons Learned for the Albanian Rural Development Fund
The Albanian Rural Development Fund (RDF) will be the first Bank
sponsored social fund in a transitional economy and it will serve as an
important test case for their use in Eastern Europe. Given the above review
of social fund characteristics, the following general recommendations are
proposed:
* The target population of the RDF should be well defined. The
project should focus on assisting former cooperative workers
particularly in mountainous and hilly areas and fired state farm
workers.
* To ensure its transparency, effectiveness and the ability to
disburse funds rapidly, the RDF should be autonomous and
authorized to adopt flexible procurement practices and offer
private sector salaries to its staff.
* To ensure the Fund's accountability it should: report regularly on
its activities to the President, Parliament and the press; carry-
out regular audits of its financial statements and physical
investments; and have a management information system that tracks
the implementation each subproject.
* The government should consider an interministerial review
committee that would meet bi-annually to coordinate the work of
the RDF between the different involved ministries and levels of
government.



190  ~~~~~~~~~~~~2r21-
<              .         ~~~~~~~~~~To S3reievo   42                                               1
ADRIATIC                           4                                                          -|
SEAToCni
42li  g 8    424
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION N
PILOT PROJECTLAh
10 POOREST DISTRICTS                                               MAT
[El10 POOREST DISTRITS
0  SELECTED TOWNS AND CMES
(    A NAlONALCAPITAL                     Sheo  1, NI 
-    MAIN ROADS
RAILROADS                                   it \8
AIRPORT
41.  POM                            ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~DURRES                                          To etoJa
DISRIC BOUNDARES                                 ELAS
-               BNERNAMNAL BOUNDAPIES  
ELEVATIONS IN MeTERtS-
10                          g           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~BERAT \M \z             g  
\p IAlbara's dsteaft wer incremedW from 26 to 36 
in midw7992 exacd boundaries for the new distkci
fhvenrtyd ben drewn The PO& Phasgec0lon
of d  oest iom  ditict is based on the old disticts           j
2                   ~~~~~~~0  8  16 24   G      IKs                        R  
I   d  .  oad i, iw ~~~~ 5 \I* I 
40'                      KIIOMETERS~~~~~~~                    GI~KATE 
I G>_6=  t>"Z , < I' k 
'    .odv.,d .foo.To twnn;no
IONIAN SEA
10                               190                          i     ,       9    JJ21°    t
'0                                          _<                         >   I     nk.I>



