Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15704
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2461-ALB)
June 5, 1996
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1987-90  1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(March)
US$1.00=Leks     8       14      75       102     95       93        99
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU (Phare)   European Union (Program for Assistance in Eastern Europe)
IDA    International Development Association
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
PY    Project Year
RCB    Rural Commercial Bank (formerly Agricultural Bank)
RDF   Rural Development Fund
RPAPP   Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
ADF   Albanian Development Fund
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
VCC    Village Credit Committee
VCF   Village Credit Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Credit 2461-ALB
CONTENTS
Preface  .........................................................    i
Evaluation Summary...
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment  .............                       ..1.................. 
A. Introduction .........................                                                                    1
B. Project Objectives ....... .................                                                              2
C. Achievement of Objectives ...... ...............                                                          2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project  ............................... .                                    6
E. Project Sustainability ...... .................                                                           7
F. Bank Performance ........................                                                                 8
G. Borrower Performance    ..................................                                                8
H. Assessment of Outcome ......................                                                              8
l. Future Operation  .............................................   9
J. Key Lessons Learned  .........................................    10
Part II. Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..................................    12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits  ................................    13
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................    13
Table 4: Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual  .............   14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation  .......................    14
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation  ...........................   15
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .................................   15
Table 8A: Project Costs  ........................................    16
Table 8B: Project Financing .........................  16
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits  ...............................   16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants   ................................    17
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ..................   18
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs  ...............................   18
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions   ................................    19
Appendixes:
A. Albanian Development Fund Contribution to the ICR
B. Detailed Tables on Rural Infrastructure Works and Small-Scale Credit Program
lllis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
lofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Credit 2461-ALB
PREFACE
This is an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project in Albania, for which Credit 2461-ALB in the amount of SDR 1.8 million (US$2.4 million
equivalent) was approved on February 23, 1993, and made effective on April 26, 1993.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995. It is the first IDA credit to close in Albania. It was
fully disbursed on July 20, 1995, and the last withdrawal application, documenting full recovery of the
Special Account, was received on February 13, 1996. As a result of SDR appreciation against the US
dollar, US$2.9 million in IDA funds were spent. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Italian
Government (US$2.4 million), EU (Phare) (ECU 1.6 million, approximately US$2.0 million), and the
French Government (US$0.3 million).' In total, the pilot project amounts to about US$7.5 million, 55
percent more than expected at appraisal. This increase does not represent a "cost overrun," but rather
the project's ability to mobilize cofinancing and expand its area of operations. The project was based on
the experience of a pre-pilot phase, financed by UNDP (US$200,000) and Freres d'Esperance
(US$20,000).
In order to provide "upstream feedback" for the appraisal of a follow-up project, a Preliminary
Project Completion Note was prepared for the project in spring 1994, at which point over 85% of the
IDA credit was disbursed, and an OED mission visited Albania in June 1994 and issued a Performance
Audit Report on December 27, 1994 (Report No. 13819). OED is not planning another audit of the
project. The follow-up Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB) became effective on May 23, 1995.
This ICR was prepared by Ms. Kathryn Funk, Operations Officer, EC2AU, during a supervision
mission to Albania on April 9-25, 1996. It was reviewed by Ms. Margret Thalwitz, Acting Chief,
EC2AU, Mr. Julius Varallyay, Country Officer, EC2CO, and Ms. Jane Loos, Project Adviser, EC2CO.
The Albanian Development Fund provided data and information essential for the preparation of the ICR,
and it provided separate comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
As of March 31, 1996, USm7.2 nillion were apent-100% of the IDA credit and Government of France grant, 94% of the
Government of Italy grant, and 92% of the EU-PHARE gmnt.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEMION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Credit 2461-ALB
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INRODUCTION
1.    The project was identified in summer 1992, at which time the Albanian economy was in a deep
crisis-the previous system had entirely collapsed and nothing yet existed to take its place. Albania's
newly created small farms, averaging only 0.7 ha per family in hilly and mountainous areas, lacked
capital, credit, agricultural inputs, and basic tools, and there were practically no markets. The result was
critical rural poverty and almost total dependence on food aid and other assistance. In August 1992,
rural infrastructure works and small-scale credit were tested in villages to work out methods based on
local traditions.  This "pre-pilot" phase largely substituted for traditional project preparation and
appraisal, and the IDA-financed pilot project was processed quickly under streamlined procedures; only
six and a half months elapsed between the date of the IEPS review meeting and project effectiveness on
April 26, 1993 (para. 1-3).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND METHODOLOGY
2.    The project aimed to establish and make operational the Rural Development Fund (RDF) and test
approaches in rural public works and small-scale credit. The three main objectives were: (a) to create
employment for the rural population and inject cash resources into rural households; (b) to repair basic
rural infrastructure; and (c) to use small-scale credit to promote private sector activities and help create
a rural market economy.
3.    To attain these objectives, the project would:
(a) Create the institutional capacity needed for rural poverty alleviation by establishing an
autonomous RDF; develop RDF's operational procedures; and train a first group of staff;
(b) Test approaches to rural public works (rehabilitation of small infrastructure, such as dirt
roads, water supplies, small irrigation schemes, schools, and health centers) and implement
about 142 subprojects; and
(c) Test approaches to small-scale credit by establishing and funding about 50 village credit
funds.
4.    The project adopted a participatory, process approach, which allowed the program to be adjusted
to local conditions and Albania's changing reality. The project's objectives and its "learning by doing"
approach were highly relevant to Albania's needs in 1992-1994 for immediate and visible actions that
helped re-start a rural market economy (para. 4-6).



- iv -
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
5.    Both a Preliminary Project Completion Note dated September 12, 1994, and a Performance Audit
Report dated December 27, 1994 (Report No. 13819)-which evaluated the project after disbursement
of US$2.2 million, 86% of the IDA Credit-rated the project outcome as satisfactory and likely to be
sustainable. About 22 months later-with project expenditures of about US$7.3 million-the project's
outcome remains satisfactory, and the project's main objectives were substantially achieved. The project
was effective in channeling funds quickly to small projects and directly impacting rural areas. The
development of a highly effective credit delivery system for small farmers and microentrepreneurs is
particularly noteworthy.
6.    The RDF, an autonomous Government foundation, was created by Govermment Decision in
January 1993 to implement the project. The RDF was transformed into the Albanian Development Fund
(ADF) in September 1994, in order to allow expansion of activities to urban areas under the IDA-
financed Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project. The project was implemented in accordance
with a Manual of Procedures, which was periodically revised with the approval of IDA and ADF's Board
of Trustees (para. 8).
7.    The pilot project, which was originally estimated at US$4.8 million, was a magnet for
cofinancing, attracting additional financing from the Governments of Italy and France, bringing the pilot
project cost to US$7.5 million, 55% more than expected at appraisal. In addition, a complementary
IFAD-financed project made US$13 million available to ADF for activities in four northeastern districts
(paras. 9-10).
8.     Under the project's rural infrastructure works component, a demand-driven rural works
methodology was developed and a total of 208 infrastructure subprojects were financed in 26 districts/145
communes. The rehabilitated infrastructure-90 rural roads (43%), 30 water supplies (14%), 28 small
irrigation schemes (13%), 24 health centers (12%), 25 schools (12%), 6 footbridges, and 5 other
types-benefits a user population of about 350,000, which represents about 17% of Albania's rural
population. The average subproject cost was US$18,000, increasing from US$13,000 in 1993 to
US$30,000 in 1995. ADF's cost data base and relatively right budgetary control helped maintain
relatively low unit costs-rural road rehabilitation averaged US$7,000 per km, and building rehabilitation
averaged US$35 per m2.
9.    The project's flexibility permitted it to adapt to Albania's evolving situation. Initially, there were
no small contractors in Albania's rural areas, especially the mountainous project area, and subprojects
were carried out by communes, which directly hired village labor and used local shopping to purchase
materials. As small contractors became available, communes increasingly began contracting the more
complicated works-subprojects carried out by construction contractors increased from 0% in 1993 to
15% in 1994, and to 53% in 1995 (paras. 11-13).
10.   A highly effective small-scale credit delivery mechanism was developed for villages, whereby
an elected village credit committee makes loan decisions, and loan repayment is assured through village
peer pressure. As of December 31, 1995, a total of 100 village credit funds were created in 9 districts,
and 5,143 subloans were disbursed to 4,750 families. The loan repayment rate is 100% in all but one
village (where the village credit fund was closed). Subloan size has averaged US$380 over the project
period, increasing from US$195 in 1992 to US$420 in 1995. The subloan ceiling was raised in early
1994 from US$500 (US$1,000 in exceptional cases approved by ADF's Executive Committee) to
US$1,000 (US$2,000 in exceptional cases). During the project, there was a successful transition from
a US dollar-pegged interest rate to a lek-based rate, which was made possible by a rapid decrease in
inflation (paras. 14-16).



- v -
11.   The project was not successful in developing actions to transfer small-scale technology to farmers
and rural entrepreneurs.  Actions in this area were stopped, with the view that microenterprise
development may start up again under the follow-up Rural Development Project, in close association with
the credit component. A small veterinary support program was started under the project, but it has an
unsustainable subsidy element and needs to be redesigned with greater village management and control
over the activities (paras. 17-18).
12.   Major factors impacting the project include: (a) a participatory, process approach, well suited
to Albania's changing environment; (b) economic growth and macroeconomic stabilization, whereby
inflation was brought from 226% in 1992 to 8% in 1995; (c) cash flow problems, resulting mainly from
delays in cofinancing and difficulties in transferring funds within Albania using the banking system, which
slowed and disrupted project activities; (d) complicated donorfinancing (nine donors and eight separate
accounts) was a challenge for ADF; (e) political and donor interference, which grew along with ADF's
size, funding, and intervention area; and (f) deterioration of the Rural Commercial Bank, which put
pressure on ADF's credit program as practically the only functioning program serving the financial needs
of rural areas (paras. 19-24).
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
13.   The rural works component's anticipated impact on employment as a vehicle for injecting cash
into the poorest rural households was more limited than expected, because many poor families have a
labor constraint. However, the rehabilitated infrastructure had important social impacts (schools and
health centers) and economic impacts (roads improved income-earning opportunities for villages) (para.
32).
14.   As demonstrated by the high level of loan repayment, the project developed an effective credit
delivery system, which was substantially implemented by the villagers themselves. The project also had
important psychological and social effects by decentralizing decision making, promoting entrepreneurship,
and restoring a sense of village community (building social capital). By establishing an effective credit
delivery mechanism for small farmers and entrepreneurs, the project laid the groundwork for a bottom-up
creation of a savings and credit association network (para. 33).
15.   The project is followed by four projects implemented by the ADF: (a) the follow-up Rural
Development Project, amounting to US$12 million over 3 years, which will finance about 190 rural
works and about 135 new village credit funds, and will prepare the progressive transition of the village
credit fund network into a financially sustainable credit and savings association system; (b) EU-PHARE's
Local Communities Development Project, amounting to about US$10 million, which will finance rural
and urban works over 3 years; (c) the continuation of the IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural
Development Project in Diber, Kukes, Has, and Tropoje Districts; and (d) the Urban Works and
Microenterprise Pilot Project, which will test infrastructure works and microcredit in urban areas,
amounting to US$3.3 million over 18 months (para. 34).
16.   Findings and lessons learned remain essentially those identified in the Preliminary Project
Completion Note:
(a)    A "learning by doing" approach is an effective method for developing a flexible, demand-
driven project in a transition economy while providing for immediate and visible results.
The approach does not compromise project quality; on the contrary, it results in more
meaningful project preparation and provides for built-in project adaptability to a changing
environment.



- vi -
(b)    The participation of future borrowers in the design of a credit program can lead to
greater ownership and reduced risk. In Albania, village intermediation, using village-
level solidarity, can very effectively limit the risk of small credit.
(c)    The pilot project's bottom-up approach for rural infrastructure rehabilitation created some
competition and bureaucratic rivalries with the central Government ministries that
advocate and pursue a top-down approach. Some ministries appear resentful of ADF's
large donor budget, its low costs for rural works, and its flexibility and quickness.
(d)    ADF's status as an autonomous government foundation was critical to the pilot project's
ability to act quickly. However, the weaknesses of ADF were: (i) given its status as an
autonomous foundation, it created resistance from some Government staff, especially
because ADF operates outside of the Government salary framework; (ii) its "soft budget"
environment makes it institutionally prone to perverse incentives; and (iii) the
contradictory logic between project components (credit versus infrastructure grants),
which grows over time.
(e)    There is a tradeoff between rapid action in the field and more formal organization at
headquarters.  Nevertheless, given Albania's lack of experience with international
accounting and private-sector management practices, more resources should be allocated
from the outset of the project for strengthening the financial and administrative structure
of the implementing institution and for developing a transparent management information
system.
(f)    Project staff must be highly motivated, dedicated to the project's socioeconomic
objectives, and open to innovation and change; staff recruitment must be based on
professional criteria and personal motivation. Following recruitment, a trial period with
in-the-field training has proven to be an effective way to test and train candidates for the
credit and rural works components.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Credit 2461-ALB
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    In 1992, Albania was in the midst of a serious economic crisis following the collapse of its
centralized economy. The countryside, where some 60% of Albania's population lives, experienced
particularly rapid and radical change. Among the first actions of the democratic Government elected in
1992 was the quick privatization of agricultural land: agricultural cooperative and state farm employees
were thrust from the most rigid form of central planning in the world into private landownership. Many
of the 400,000 newly created small family farms, particularly those in hilly or mountainous areas, lacked
agricultural inputs, capital, credit, and basic tools; moreover, processing and marketing, both previously
undertaken by the state, had broken down. In the ten poorest districts, landholdings averaged less than
0.9 ha per family, too small for subsistence, and there was an absence of alternative employment
opportunities. The result was critical rural poverty and almost total dependence on food aid and other
foreign assistance. This dramatic situation made it necessary to take actions that would have an
immediate and visible impact while preparing the transition towards a market economy.
2.    To complement the price reforms and macroeconomic adjustments initiated in 1992, the
Government began a Rural Poverty Alleviation Program, consisting primarily of rural works and small-
scale credit. The Program aimed at rebuilding the rural economy on a free-market basis from the bottom
up, with a focus on: (a) actively alleviating rural poverty; (b) restoring food security; (c) promoting the
small-scale private sector; (d) repairing basic rural infrastructure; (e) strengthening local governments;
and (f) rooting rural development policies in local tradition and culture. The Program was built in a
participatory way and implemented in a phased, "process" approach as follows:
Phase 1:  Pre-pilotphase (August 1992-April 1993). Funding from the UNDP (US$200,000) and from
Freres d'Esperance (US$20,000), a French NGO, was used to finance the first village and
farm surveys and to test organizational and technical approaches for ten rural works projects
and seven village credit funds. The pre-pilot phase largely substituted for traditional project
preparation and appraisal.
Phase 2:  Pilot phase (the subject of this ICR, effective April 1993). The Rural Poverty Alleviation
Pilot Project was financed by IDA, EU-PHARE, an Italian grant, and a French grant, for a
total of US$7.5 million. Under this pilot phase, the Rural Development Fund (RDF) was
established (it was subsequently transformed into the Albanian Development Fund, ADF) and
165 rural works subprojects and 100 village credit funds were implemented in Albania's hilly
and mountain areas.
Phase 3:  Full-scale project. The follow-up Rural Development Project, which became effective in May
1995, amounts to about US$12 million over 3 years. In addition, a Northeastern Districts
Rural Development Project, which financed ADF activities in northeastern Albania, became
effective in April 1994. An EU-PHARE Local Communities Development Project will start
in 1996 to finance rural and urban infrastructure works implemented by ADF.



- 2 -
3.    Albania joined the Bank on October 15, 1991. The first IDA-financed project in Albania, the
Critical Imports Project (Cr. 2404-ALB, US$41.1 million equivalent), was approved by IDA's Board of
Directors on June 25, 1992, to finance emergency inputs for agriculture, power, and transport. The Rural
Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project was the second IDA credit to the country-approved by the Board of
Directors on February 23, 1993, and effective on April 26, 1993-and the first IDA credit to close. The
Bank's Board of Directors approved an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC, Credit 2524-ALB)
on June 24, 1993, to support structural changes in agriculture and strengthen the Rural Commercial Bank.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), dated February 2, 1993, the project aimed to
establish and make operational the RDF2 and test approaches in rural works and small-scale credit. The
three main objectives were: (a) to create employment for the rural population and inject cash resources
into rural households; (b) to repair basic rural infrastructure; and (c) to use small-scale credit to promote
private- sector activities and help create a rural market economy. Also, the project intended to provide
feedback for developing a rural policy and the on-going local government and finance reform, and to
implement a new economic and financial approach at the local level.
5.     To attain these objectives, the project would:
(a) Create the institutional capacity needed for program implementation by establishing the RDF
and training a first group of staff;
(b) Develop RDF's operational procedures and mechanisms of technical and financial control;
(c) Evaluate, design, finance, and implement approximately 142 rural infrastructure subprojects,
and establish and fund some 50 village credit funds;
(d) Establish and implement, using technical assistance as necessary, training programs to
improve local capacity to identify, appraise, and implement small public works projects; the
ability of village credit funds to evaluate and administer small loans; and programs to transfer
appropriate technology to farmers and small rural entrepreneurs.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives. The project's objectives and its "learning by doing" approach were
highly relevant to Albania's needs in 1992-1994 for immediate actions to help re-start a rural market
economy. The project also reflected the development priorities formulated in the Country Assistance
Strategy for Albania presented to the Board in August 1993, which emphasized poverty and privatization
and called for a "flexible strategy that responds quickly to new information while maintaining an overall
framework that promotes (i) stability; and (ii) new entrepreneurship and private initiative." The project
complemented other IDA-financed projects that applied a macro or top-down approach, such as the
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit and sectoral infrastructure projects.
C. ACHiEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.     Overall, the project's objectives were substantially achieved. During the project implementation
period, both Government and donors were impressed by the project's unique effectiveness at channeling
funds quickly to small projects and directly impacting rural areas, especially considering the logistical and
institutional difficulties faced during the country's transition period. The development of an extremely
effective credit delivery system for small farmers and micreonterpreneurs is particularly noteworthy.
2 The RDF was later transformed into the ADF (see para. 8).



- 3 -
8.    Establishment and Start-up of the Rural Development Fund. It was determined during project
preparation and appraisal that the rural poverty alleviation program would be best implemented by an
autonomous agency, parallel to the Government structure. Consequently, the RDF was established by
Government Decision in January 1993 as an autonomous, transition institution responsible for the
implementation of the pilot and full-scale project, under the general direction of a Board of Trustees
chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister. The RDF's Manual of Procedures and Internal Regulations were
approved by the Board of Trustees at the first Board meeting on March 5, 1993, and they were
periodically revised during the project implementation period. In September 1994, the RDF was
transformed into the ADF in order to allow expansion of activities to urban areas under the IDA-financed
Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project. At the end of 1995, ADF had a total of 77 employees
(45 based in Tirana, 32 based in other districts), including about 15 staff working exclusively on the
Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project.
9.    Project Financing. The pilot project size was originally estimated at US$4.8 million, financed
by IDA (US$2.4 million); EU-PHARE (US$2.0 million); and UNDP (US$0.4 million). The UNDP,
which financed the pre-pilot phase, did not contribute financing for the pilot project. Additional
cofinancing was obtained from the Government of Italy (US$2.4 million) and the Government of France
(US$0.3 million), and the US dollar appreciated against the SDR (US$0.5 million), bringing the pilot
project cost to about US$7.5 million, 55% more than expected at appraisal.3 This increase does not
represent a "cost overrun," but rather the project's ability to mobilize cofinancing and expand its area of
operations. In addition, an IFAD-financed Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project became
effective in April 1994, financed by IFAD (SDR 8.3 million, US$11.6 million equivalent) and the Islamic
Development Bank (US$5.5 million), for a total project cost of about US$18 million over 6 years, of
which US$13 million is allocated for ADF activities in the districts of Diber, Kukes, Has, and Tropoje.
10.   The project overlapped with the follow-up Rural Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB), which
became effective in May 1995, financed by IDA (SDR 4.1 million, US$6.0 million equivalent),
Government of Switzerland grant (US$2.7 million for Puka District only), EU (Phare) (ECU 800,000,
about US$1 million), Goverrunent of France grant (US$0.3 million), and Government of Albania
contribution (US$1.2 million), for a total amount of US$12 million.  An Urban Works and
Microenterprise Pilot Project (Cr. 2770-ALB), which tests urban works and small-scale credit in urban
areas, became effective in December 1995. An EU-Phare Local Communities Development Project
(ECU 8.5 million), which will finance urban and rural works implemented by ADF, is expected to start
in mid-1996.
11.   Rural Infrastructure Works. During the pilot project, a demand-driven rural works methodology
was developed and a total of 208 infrastructure rehabilitation subprojects were financed in 26 districts/
145 communes (types of works and physical quantity are shown in Table C. 1). At appraisal, it was
estimated that the project would finance 148 subprojects (averaging US$11,000) in 13 districts (out of
36 districts). As a result of additional cofinancing, the financing available for rural infrastructure more
than doubled, and the geographical project area progressively expanded to two-thirds of Albania's
districts. However, the number of subprojects financed was 40% higher than the appraisal estimate, and
the average subproject cost was US$18,000, 64% more than the estimate at appraisal, which was based
on a hypothetical list of possible subprojects. The rehabilitated infrastructure directly benefits about
350,000 users, which represent about 17% of Albania's rural population.
3  Because of the Government's budget situation in 1993, the Government made in-kind contributions (such as office space).



- 4 -
Table C.1
Rural Works Subprojects Financed as of 3/15/96'
No. of Subprojects   Physical Qantisy        Contracted           Average
Value           Subproject Size
(cuSs'             (uS)",
Rural Roads                     90               278 km            2,122,000              23,500
Water Supplies                  30                66 km              468,000              15,600
Irrigan'on                      28      136 km / 4,139 ha            729,000              26,000
Health Centers                  24              5,318 ni2            223,000               9,300
Schols                          25              5,097 m2             186,000               7,400
Footbridges                      6                524 m               30,000                 466
Other                            5                    --              88,700              18,000
TOTAL                          208                                 3,845,000              18,500
a/  Includes IDA C2461-ALB), Government of Italy, EU-Phare, and Government of France Financing. 149 subprojects are
completed. Does not include 7 subprojects financed under the pre-pilot phase. Does not include subprojects financed with
IFAD, IDA (2680-ALB), or Swims financing.
b/  USS amounts converted from Lek at US$I.00=Lek 95.
12.    The project's flexibility permitted it to adapt to Albania's evolving situation. Initially, there were
no small contractors in Albania's rural areas, especially the mountainous project area, and subprojects
were carried out by communes, which directly hired village labor and used local shopping to purchase
materials. As small contractors became available, communes increasingly began contracting the more
complicated works (see Table C.2). Use of contractors increased the subproject costs, but also resulted
on average in higher quality rehabilitation. Subproject costs also increased because (a) prices of some
construction materials doubled or tripled when the Government liberalized prices; (b) there was a high
demand for road and irrigation rehabilitation, which is more costly than building rehabilitation; and (c)
the project implementation period was longer than originally planned. The average subproject cost
progressively increased from US$13,000 for subprojects initiated in 1993 to US$30,000 for subprojects
initiated in 1995, and subproject cost ranged from about US$900 for a water supply repair to about
US$50,000 for irrigation rehabilitation.4 ADF developed a cost data base and maintained tight budgetary
control over subprojects, which contributed to relatively low unit costs-rural road rehabilitation averaged
US$7,000 per km, and building rehabilitation averaged US$36 per m2.
Table C.2
Rural Works Program: Evolution of Subproject Cost and Use of Contractors
Subprojects Started in:               1993             1994            1995
Average Subprojea Cost             US$13,000        US$18,300        US$30,000
% of Subprojects Implemented by        0               15%             53%
Contractors
13.    Recognizing that local governments during the transition period do not have the revenues needed
to maintain subprojects, the project required the establishment of maintenance funds by users (5% of
subproject cost) to assure subproject upkeep for three years. In practice, however, ADF had difficulty
in enforcing the establishment and effective use of maintenance funds, which exist for 120 subprojects
4   However, some subprojects (roads and irrigation rehabilitation) were divided into two or more subprojects, effectively circumventing
the subloan ceiling of US$50,000, although this practice was specifically prohibited by ADF's Manual of Procedures.



-  -
(63 percent). Partly because Bank supervision missions insisted on this point, ADF gave greater attention
to subproject maintenance in 1995, and ADF engineers were required to regularly visit completed
subprojects to inspect upkeep. Subproject maintenance is expected to receive continued attention under
the follow-up Rural Development Project, including additional training to ADF staff on the formation of
user committees.
14.   Small-Scale  Credit  (ViUlage  Credit
FRndr).  Under the project, a highly effective                    Table C.4
small-scale  credit delivery  mechanism  was          VUlage Credit Funds and Subloans
developed for villages, whereby an elected village          Disbursed, 12/31/95
credit committee makes loan decisions, and loan
repayment is assured  through  village peer                        O. Of Vma8
pressure. As of December 31, 1995, a total of     Dinid           Cmdk Ftwlj   No. of S&*boa
100 village credit funds were created in 9
districts, and 5,143 subloans were disbursed to   Diber               9             403
4,750 families (see Table C.4).5   The loan       Eam                 35           2,112
repayment rate is 100 percent in all but one
village (where the village credit fund was closed).  Grh              18            937
At appraisal, it was estimated that 50 village    Kje                 6             351
credit funds would be established, and 5,000       K.                 4             84
subloans would be disbursed. Donor financing
for the pilot credit program doubled from US$0.6  Lirazhd             2             55
million to US$1.7 million. Subloan size, which    puka                3             99
was estimated at appraisal to range from US$100   Tfn                 14
to US$300, has averaged US$380 over the project
period, ranging from US$195 in 1992 to US$420     Vore                9             401
in 1995 (see Table C.5). The subloan ceiling was  TOW                100           5,143
raised in early 1994 from US$500 (US$1,000 in
exceptional cases approved by ADF's Executive
Committee) to US$1,000 (US$2,000 in
exceptional cases).
15.    The 100 villages participating in the program correspond to a population of 12,170 families, of
which 39% received subloans. Subloans range in length from nine months to three years (depending on
the activity financed), and average about 16 months. There has been a continual diversification in the
activities financed, reflecting the growth of economic activities in rural areas: during the first three
months, April-June 1993, 97 percent of the subloans were used to purchase livestock; from January-
March 1996, 63 percent of subloans were used to purchase livestock. The overall use of subloans is
shown in Figure C.1.
Table C.S
Average Size of New Subloans
1992 (pre-pilot
phse)         1993           1994          1995
Average Subloan Size    Lek 19,646  Lek 30,074   Lek 37,301     Lek 41,779
(US$ 195)     (US$ 300)     (US$400)       (US$ 420)
This ICR evaluates the ADF credit program as of December 31, 1996, roardleu of the source of fincing. The ttistics include
4 vilage credit funds financed with IFAD funds and 3 VCFs finAned with Governmni of Swi_ia  fhnds.



16.   At the beginning of the project, at a
time of high inflation (225% in 1992) and
disorganization of the country's financial                  Figure ClI
markets, it was decided to peg loan capital to     Use of Subloans, as of 12131/95
the dollar (to capture inflation) plus 6 percent
interest. The unforeseen stability of the lek
resulted in relatively favorable terms for the            :. w
borrowers; at the same time, borrowers faced       A        12%
the risk of lek devaluation. In early 1994,        Trd. _%
village credit committees agreed that new          4%
subloans would be given at 10% in lek terms,
introducing a successful transition to a real    4%                         aem
positive lek-based rate (inflation was 8% in
1995). Further interest rate adjustments are
expected to take place when savings
mobilization is introduced in 1996 and as
progressive steps are taken toward financial
sustainabiity.
17.   7ransfer of Technology. The project was not successful in developing actions to transfer small-
scale technology to farmers and rural entrepreneurs. Such actions, foreseen in the SAR, were initiated
in October 1993, at which time four subsectors were identified for possible intervention-goat cheese
processing, fruit processing, potato seed production, and olive oil processing. Plans called for testing
the establishment of common facility centers, which would provide training, transfer small technology,
and introduce new systems of supply, processing, and marketing. During the subsequent months,
however, many difficulties and delays were experienced in establishing the common facility centers,
including institutional and legal problems characteristic of the transitional environment, political pressures
to immediately privatize the centers, and lack of qualified ADF microenterprise department staff. As a
result, actions in this area were stopped, with the view that microenterprise development assistance may
start-up again under the follow-up Rural Development Project, using a demand-driven approach in close
association with the credit component.
18.   Veterinary Support. A small program to support livestock prophylaxis in villages participating
in the credit program was initiated in 1994 using Government of Italy grant funds. Total expenditures
as of March 31, 1996, were about US$200,000. This program had a considerable impact on animal
health in the participating villages: about 14,000 cows and 117,000 ruminants were treated in almost 100
villages in 1995. However, during the course of its implementation it deviated from its original
objectives, resulting in a program with an unsustainable subsidy element (almost 70%) and insufficient
village management and control of the activities. The program is expected to be redesigned or phased
out under the follow-up Rural Development Project.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTNG THE PROJECT
19.    Use of Pioting. The use of a "process" approach-whereby the project is continually adjusted
to local needs and constraints, and lessons drawn from one phase are used to prepare the next one-was
a major factor in the project's success. During the "pre-pilot phase," the basic organization of the rural
works and village credit funds was worked out in continuous dialogue with commune and village
representatives. Both project components continued to adapt themselves to Albania's changing situation
during the project implementation period.
20.   Stable Macroeconomic Environment. An improving macroeconomic environment during the
project period aided implementation. Average annual inflation fell from 226% in 1992 to 85% in 1993,
23% in 1994, and 8% in 1995. Real GDP increased by 30% from 1992 to 1995, reaching US$680 per



- 7 -
capita in 1995, and the Government's budget deficit fell nearly by half from 22% of GDP in 1992 to 12%
in 1995.
21.    Cash Flow Problems. Periodic lack of funds slowed and disrupted the project's activities, and
was probably the single biggest problem impacting implementation. Cash flow problems were caused
by: (a) the Special Account allocation was too small for the rate of IDA disbursements; which required
an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement; (b) the arrival of EU (Phare) cofinancing was very
delayed; and (c) transferring funds to rural areas using Albania's banking system was very difficult,
sometimes taking up to 2 months (ADF is now experimenting with using the Government's treasury
system to transfer funds for rural infrastructure subprojects); and (d) the previous factors were
compounded by the seasonal nature of rural works, which caused rehabilitation activities to be suspended
in the winter, with subsequent heavy demand for funds in spring and summer.
22.    Complicated Donor FYnancing. By 1995, ADF had a total of 9 donors and 10 separate accounts
for the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project, Rural Development Project, Northeastern Districts Rural
Development Project, and Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project.6 Considering the sheer
number of donors as well as the various geographical and other restrictions imposed by different donors,
ADF did surprising well in managing its financing. Still, administering donor financing was very difficult
for ADF and pusbed the institution to the brink of its capacity.
23.   Political and Donor Pressure. Political pressure on ADF grew along with ADF's size, funding,
and intervention area. Requests from Government and donors eroded the grassroots, demand-driven
approach of the infrastructure works program. Strict autonomy from Government is critical for the
success of a credit program, because Government or political involvement can jeopardize loan repayment.
The credit program expanded more quickly in districts where there were no efforts to influence the
recruitment of credit officers and selection of villages.
24.   Rural Commercial Bank. At project appraisal, it was assumed that farmers needing larger loans
would have access to the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB), and that successful village credit fund
borrowers could 'graduate" to larger RCB loans. However, the RCB's situation worsened over the
project implementation period, and most rural branches stopped providing credit. In effect, village credit
funds were the only source of credit in the project area, resulting in pressure on the village credit fund
system to expand quickly, as well as pressure by the villages to increase the subloan ceiling and make
fewer but larger loans to better-off farmers, who were considered less risky and which would also lower
transaction costs. This growing contradiction between the first objective of the project-poverty
alleviation-and the increasingly important objective of financial sustainability will need to be addressed
under the follow-up Rural Development Project, which may experiment with how to make somewhat
larger loans to better-off farmers, without eliminating the objective of making small loans available to
poor farmers.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   The nearly perfect subloan repayment rate and the existence of a follow up project, which will
continue to address infrastructure maintenance, support the view that project outcomes are likely to be
sustainable. The project's implementing institution-the ADF-was intended as a temporary institution
to address rural poverty and economic development during Albania's transition from a command economy
to a market-based economy. Project components are expected to evolve in different ways.
6 On December 31, 1995, ADF's financiers were: IDA (3 special accounts), Italian Govermnent, EU-PHARE, Swiss Govermnent,
French Goverunent, FAD, Japanewe Government (PHRD Grant), UNDP, and Fondation pour le Progres de I'Homme (Swim NOO).



- 8 -
26.    Village credit funds are expected to evolve into a financially sustainable savings and credit
association network. As a first step in this direction, village credit funds are being legalized under a
Savings and Credit Association Law passed in March 19967, and savings will be incorporated in 1996
and 1997. In addition, the Rural Credit Department will progressively become autonomous from ADF
under the follow-up Rural Development Project. The separation of the Rural Credit Department from
ADF is seen as absolutely essential for the future sustainability of the credit system, because controlling
operating costs and developing employee incentive schemes is increasingly impossible within ADF's "soft
budget" environment.
27.    ADF's Infrastructure Department continues to address how to assure or enforce subproject
maintenance by local government or users, which is expected to have an important training effect on
communities. The project's rural works program was intended as a temporary grants program, which
would end when donor financing was expended. Because of ADF's relative effectiveness at carrying out
subprojects, the program has attracted more financing than originally expected (see para. 9-10).
However, the ADF Infrastructure Department-anticipating a time when donor financing will no longer
be available-is beginning to consider how it may evolve toward a more sustainable function, such as a
financier for local governments with full cost recovery of infrastructure subprojects.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.   The innovative design and emergency nature of the project required special attention from IDA.
IDA staff were closely involved with the project's start up-including promoting its participatory design
and obtaining grant financing for the "pre-pilot phase"-and project implementation, contributing
substantially to the evolution of the program through supervision work. Continuity of the project's task
manager and team work by IDA staff enhanced supervision.
29.   IDA also contributed to the project by helping to mobilize and supervise a large volume of
cofinancing. However, some of the cofinancing may have complicated the project and "overloaded" ADF
(see para. 9). In general, IDA staff seemed to have been overly optimistic of ADF's ability to manage
a growing and increasingly complex program. Also, IDA staff could have been more attentive early in
the project design to (i) establish an efficient overall management information system; and (ii) recommend
ADF's adoption of an incentive-based compensation system and other private-sector practices to maintain
operational efficiency.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.    Overall, ADF's performance in implementing the project was highly satisfactory, and the
establishment of ADF as an autonomous, flexible, and operations-oriented institution was critical for the
project's success. ADF earned respect from IDA, cofinanciers, and within Albania for its effectiveness
at implementing small rural works in difficult conditions and at establishing a village credit delivery
system with nearly a 100 percent repayment rate. Many ADF staff are highly committed, working long
hours with frequent travel to rural areas. However, ADF has not yet been able to systemize its
operations or management, which supports OED's observation that ADF's informal, ad hoc management
style is the most serious obstacle to growth.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.    Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory and all major objectives were achieved or exceeded.
Approaches to rural infrastructure works and small credit delivery were tested and developed and the
7 A framework cooperative law (No. 8089) and a specific savings and credit association law (No. 8088) were passed by Albania's
parliament on March 21, 1996, largely due to ADF's efforts.



- 9 -
project produced concrete and visible results during a difficult time of Albania's transition period. Project
interventions had both economic and social development impacts in the project area.
32.    Rural Infrastructure Works.  Rural works were expected to produce important short-term
employment generation benefits as well as benefits resulting from the rehabilitated infrastructure. The
project impact study carried out in mid-1994 indicated that the anticipated impact on employment as a
vehicle for injecting cash into the poorest rural households was more limited than expected, because the
main constraint of many poor families is the shortage of active persons. Also, the subprojects were less
labor intensive as expected-labor cost averaged 35% of subproject cost, as compared to 53% estimated
at appraisal. However, the economic and social impact of the rehabilitated infrastructure has been
considerable; roads, for example, have had a major impact in improving income-earning opportunities
for villagers.' In addition, ADF's Infrastructure Department trained local governments in subproject
preparation, appraisal, procurement (simplified local competitive bidding), supervision, and management,
which should help prepare local governments for their increasing role in local development.
33.    Small-Scale Credit Program. As demonstrated by the high level of loan repayment, the project
developed an effective credit delivery system, which is substantially implemented by the villagers
themselves. The nearly 100% loan repayment rate contrasts sharply with the low (less than 50%) loan
recovery rate of Albania's three large commercial banks. The project impact study carried out in mid-
1994 indicated that credit was mainly given to those families with lower incomes, which used the
subloans to build farm assets and increase food security through purchase of a cow or small ruminants.
The project is also believed to have had important social and psychological effects by decentralizing
decision making, promoting entrepreneurship, and restoring a sense of village community.  By
establishing an effective credit delivery mechanism for small farmers and entrepreneurs, the project has
also laid the groundwork for the possible bottom-up creation of a savings and credit association network.
I. FuTuRE OPERATION
34.    The project is followed by four projects implemented by ADF:
(a) The follow-up Rural Development Project, which finances a core program to extend ADF
activity for three years, started in mid-1995, overlapping with EU (Phare) and Italian
Government financing under the pilot project. The Rural Development Project is expected
to finance about 190 rural works and about 135 new village credit funds. Also, the project
will prepare the progressive transition of the village credit fund network into a financially
sustainable credit and savings association system. As a first step, ADF's Rural Credit
Department is expected to separate from ADF in 1997, which is necessary to move toward
financial sustainability of the credit program.
(b) EU (Phare)'s Local Communities Development Project finances rural and urban works up to
US$150,000 carried out by ADF. The project is expected to start up in mid-1996.
(c) The ADF will continue to implement the Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project
in Diber, Has, Kukes, and Tropoje Districts.
(d) Given the success in rural areas, the Urban Works and Microenterprise Pilot Project (Cr.
2770-ALB) will test infrastructure works and microcredit in selected urban areas. The
project, which is financed by IDA (SDR 2.6 million, US$4.0 million equivalent) and
Opening access roads also had an important psychological impact on villages that had been literally isolated for years. Not surprising,
road rehabilitation was in high demand (43% of the rural works were road rehabilitation).



- 10 -
Government of Albania contribution (US$0.4 million), was approved by IDA's Board of
Directors on August 1, 1995, and became effective on December 8, 1995.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   Findings and lessons learned are:
(a) A "learning by doing" approach is an effective method for developing a flexible, demand-
driven project in a transition economy while providing for immediate and visible results. The
approach does not compromise project quality; on the contrary, it results in more meaningful
project preparation and provides for built-in project adaptability to a changing environment.
(b) The participation of future borrowers in the design of a credit program can lead to greater
ownership and reduced risk. In Albania, village intermediation, using village-level solidarity,
can very effectively limit the risk of small credit.
(c) The pilot project's bottom-up approach for rural infrastructure rehabilitation created some
competition and bureaucratic rivalries with the central government ministries that advocate
and pursue a top-down approach. Some ministries appeared to be resentful of ADF's large
donor budget, its low costs for rural works, and its flexibility and quickness.
(d) ADF's status as an autonomous government foundation was critical for the pilot project's
ability to act quickly. On the other hand, the weaknesses of an autonomous government
foundation were: (i) it created resistance from some government staff, especially because
ADF operates outside of the government salary framework; (ii) its "soft budget" environment
makes it institutionally prone to perverse incentives; and (iii) the contradictory logic between
project components (credit versus infrastructure grants) grows over time.
(e) There is a trade off between rapid action in the field, and more formal organization at
headquarters. Nevertheless, given Albania's lack of experience with international accounting
and private-sector management practices, more resources should be allocated from the outset
of the project for strengthening the financial and administrative structure of the implementing
institution and for developing a transparent management information system.
(f) Project staff must be highly motivated, dedicated to the project's socioeconomic objects, and
open to innovation and change; staff recruitment must be based on professional criteria and
personal motivation. Following recruitment, a trial period with in-the-field training has
proven to be an effective way to test and train candidates for the credit and rural works
components.
KFunk
m:\alb\rurpov\rpapp.icr



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Credit 2461-ALB
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:   Project Costs
Table 8B:   Project Financing
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                     El             0             0              0
Sector policies                     a             [            E               E
Financial objectives               E              [            E               E
Institutional development          E              E            El               
Physical objectives                 El            E             L 
Poverty reduction                                 []           E               El
Gender issues                      I              [El                          VI
Other social objectives                           [            E               El
Environmental objectives           EEl                         E                 I
Public sector management           E              E            El              El
Private sector development         E               ]           E               E
Other (specify)                    [              E            E                O
B. Project sustainability            Likely                Unlikely            Uncertain
VI                    O                    El
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification/ Preparation/       1;                     E                    E
Appraisal (Implementation of
Pre-Pilot Phase
Supervision                                               [l                   El
D. Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                        VI                     El                   E
Implementation                     ElE                                         El
Covenant compliance                 0                     El                    0
Operation (if applicable)          E                      E                    E
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
WI            E            E               E



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                             Purpose                   Year of               Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
None
Following Operations
1. Agriculture Sector Adjustment  *Support  an  agriculture  ectorl       1993      Major progress on policy
Credit (Cr. 2524-ALB)             reform program.                                   issue. and land
privatization. Second
*Credit line to rural entrepreneurs              tanche not yet releaed due
through  Rural Commercial  Bank                  to pricing issue. Overall
(RCB).                                            situation of RCB has
continued to deteriorate.
*Institutional strngthening, including
institutional developrnent of RCB.
2. Rural Development Project (Cr.    *Follow-up  to the Rural Poverty     1995       Ongoing-effective in May
2680-ALB)                         Alleviation  Pilot  Project;  extend               1995.
Albanian Development Fund
activities(rural infrastructure works,
small-scale credit, promotion of rural
activities) for three years.
*Finance about 190 rural works and
135 village credit funds.
3. Urban Works and                *Test  approaches  to  urban            1995      Ongoing-effective in
Microenterprise Pilot Project (Cr.    infrastructure works and urban micro-         December 1995.
2770-ALB)                         credit.
*Finance about 30 urban works and
disburse approximately 2,000 micro
loans (US$200-US$5,000).
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Circle                                    Date planned               Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                     N/A                      08/92
Preparation                                                    N/A                      09/92
Appraisal                                                      N/A                       11/92
Negotiations                                                   N/A                      01/93
Board presentation                                             N/A                      02/93
Signing                                                        N/A                      03/93
Effectiveness                                                  N/A                      04/93
Midterm review (if applicable)                                 9/93                      9/93
Project completion (IDA credit only)                           12/94                     6/95
Credit closing                                                 06/95                    06/95



- 14 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
Appraisal                       Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year           Estimate          Actual       Percentage of
(US$ thousands)              Estimate
6/93                    0.2           0.3          150%
12/93                   0.7            1.5          200%
6/94                    1.2           2.3          190%
12/94                   2.0           2.4           120%
6/95                    2.4           2.8"         115%
Date of Final Disbursement:: July 20, 1995
a/ As a result of SDR appreciation against the US dollar, a total of
US$2.8 million were spent under the project.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated               Actual
at Appraisal
L  Key impementation indicators in SAR
(1) Project Institutional and
Operational Development
(a) Establish Albanian Development Fund (ADF) and                Fulfilled
train staff
(b) Develop ADF's operational procedures                         Fulfilled
..~...................................................... ....... ................................................ .................................. .............
(2) Rural Works Component
(a) Rural works subprojects          142                           208
(b) Person days of employment        542,000                      N/A"
(c) Number of users                 not estimated                350,000
/beneficiaries
.. ................................................................................... ................................................ .................................................
(2) Small Credit Component
(a) Establishment of credit delivery system for small            Fulfilled
farmers and entrepreneurs
(b) No. of village credit funds      50                             100
(c) No. of subloans                 5,000                         5,143
a/ As smRall contractors became increasingly available, subprojects were implemented
by small contractors (selected through local shopping) instead of directly carried out
by the commune, and the ADF stopped tracking the number of employment days.



- 15 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                       Acul
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Induded in Project
Study                                Purpose                  Status        Impact of study
1. Evaluation of Rural    To evaluate the procedures used   Issued 11/93  Provided feedback
Infrastructure Component    to implement the rural works                  for improving
component                                       implementation and
amending the
Manual of
Procedures.
2. Project Impact Study   To evaluate the impact of project  Ended 6/94.  Provided feedback
activities undertaken as of 1/94.               for project.
The study was carried out in 5                  Confirned that
districts, 21 villages, including               project was reaching
villages with and without project               poorest half of
interventions.                                  population.
3. Rural Household Income  To provide information on rural   Issued 3/96  Survey results still
Survey                    household incomes and financial                 under review. Will
return of activities financed with              be used to evaluate
credit from village credit funds                VCF interest rate
(VCF); to establish a baseline                  policy and overall
situation for further studies.                  credit strategy.
Approximately 111 households
were surveyed in 6 districts, 22
villages.
4. Agricultural Price     To provide feedback for the rual  Iniiated in 3/95,  Ongoing feedback
Surveys                   credit department on the       on a monthly     for rual credit
evolution of agricultural terms of  basis.      program.
trade in the credit intervention
area. Agricultural prices in local
markets recorded on monthly
basis by credit officers.



- 16 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         As of      Estimated
(US$ million)           3/31/96       Total
Item                             Local   Foreign   Total         Total        Total
costs    costs
1. Rural Works                    1.5      0.1      1.6          3.7          3.8
2. Small-Scale Credit             0.7      0.1      0.8           1.7          1.7
3. TA, Studies, and Training      0.6      0.9       1.4         0.7          0.7
4. Equipment for ADF,             0.5      0.2      0.7           0.5          0.6
Veterinary Supplies
5. ADF Recurrent Costs            0.5      0.2      0.7           0.7          0.7
Total                3.2      1.6      4.8          7.2          7.5
Note: Figures may not total due to rounding.
Table 8B: Project Flnancing
Appraisal estimate                  Actual
(USS million)                  (USS million)
Total                          Total
l. IDA                                       2.4                            2.9
2. EU-PHARE                                 2.0vb                           2.&
3. UNDP                                      0.4
4. Government of Italy                        -                             2.4
5. Govenment of France                        -                             0.3
Total                          4.8                            7.5
Note: Figures may not total due to rounding.
a/ SDR 1.8 million (SDR appreciated against the US dollar during project period)
b/ ECU 1.6 million (US$1.00=ECU 0.8)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis of project estimated at appraisal.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Albania
Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
Covenant   Present    Original    Revised
Agreemen    Section        Type       Status    Fufiflmen  Fulfillment Description of Covenant                              Comments
t                                             t Date       Date
Credit      4.01 (b)         I           C        Within 6                The Government is to have the project accounts and International audits were undertaken of the
months of               records and the special account audited on an annual 1994 and 1995 accounts.
end of FY                basis, and the audit report is to be submitted to the
Bank wihin six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Project     4.01 (b)         I           C        Wthin 6                 The Rural Development Fund (RDF) shall have its See above.
months of                records, accounts and financial statements audited on
end of FY                an annual basis; the financial statements and the audit
report are to be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year.
Project     Schedule 2,     10          CP       Continuous               For infrastructure projects, RDF shall make available Deviations from the Manual of Procedures
sub-loans to requesting entities in accordance with were observed in: (i) more  than one
Section                                                       Regulations and Operational Guidelines which shall subproject financed in a commune at the
1(a)                                                          have been approved by IDA.                        same time; (ii) subprojects broken into
'chunks' to circumvent subprmject ceiling;
(iii) maintenance funds not alwys created;
(iv) demand-driven methodology not ahways
re pected
Project     Schedule 2,     10           C       Continuous                For Credit Projects, RDF shall make available funds
Section                                                       to  vilage credit committees to be sub-lent to
2(a)                                                          beneficiries in accordance with Regulations and
Operaional Guidelines which shall been approved by
IDA.
Project     Schedule 2,      9           C        9/30/93                 RDF sha1l carry out a mid-term review evaluating the
Section                                                       progress of the project.
3(c)
CovsAmt bpe:                                                                                                     Pre""t Sab
I =  Accoumn/audits                             S =  Indipnous peop                                              C - covenat complied with
2 -  Fmnanial performance/revenue generation from  9 =  Monitoring, review, and reporting                        CD   complied with after delay
beneficiaries                             10   Project implemen_tion not covered by categories 1-          CP = complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project funds             9                                                         NC - not complied with
4 =  Counterpart funding                        11   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5 -  Management aspects of the project or executing   resource allocation
agency                                     12 =  Sectoral or cro  ectoral
6 =  Evironmentl covenants                            policy/regulatory/istitutional action
7 =  Involuntary rewettlement                    13 =  Other



- 18 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No lack of compliance was observed.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                        Actual
Stage of project cycle      Weeks       USS              Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal       -         --               4.8         13.9
Appraisal                      -         --               0.1         0.2
Negotiations through Board     --        --               11.2        27.6
approval
Supervision
FY93                        --         --              10.0         16.0
FY94                       12.0       25.3             23.5        38.1
FY95                       19.5      45.0              21.3        27.2
FY96                       17.5       23.2              2.4         8.0
Completion                    2.0                         1.2         1.7
Total                                                  74.5        132.7



- 19 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                           Rating 2          Types of
Stage of project cycle     Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization   I            D           Problems 3
Implementation Development
status     objectives
Identification/Preparation    8/92        2                  E, N
Preparation/Appraisal         11/92       3                 E, N, C
Start-Up                      2/93        3                 E, C, N
Supervision I                 3/93        5             E, RD, F, N, N
Supervision II                4/93        2                  C, F
Supervision m                 6/93        2                   C, F                   1                M, F
Supervision IV                10/93       4               E, E, C, ME                1                M, F
Supervision V                 11/93       1                    E
Supervision VI                1/94        7             E, E, F, C, ME,              1                M, F
MO, S
Supervision VII               4/94        4               E, E, C, ME                1                M, F
Supervision VIm               9/94        4
Supervision IX                10/94       2
Supervision X                 1/95        2       11         E, E            HS            HS         M, F
Supervision XI                3/95        1       10           E
Supervision XII               4/95        2       11         E, E            HS            HS         M, F
Supervision xm                7/95        2       13         E, E
Supervision XIV              10/95        2       13         E, E             S            HS         M, F
Supervision XV                1/96        2       14         E, E
Supervision XVI/Completion    5/96        2                  E, E
1 - Specialization                        2 - Performance Rating              3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                        I = Minor problems                 F =  Financial
E = Economist                              2 = Moderate Problems              T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                   3 = Major Problems                 M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst                      HS =Highly satisfactory
H = Horticulturist                         S=Satisfactory
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
ME = Microenterprise Specialist
MO =Monitoring Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
S = Sociologist






Appendix A
Page 1 of 3
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
EVALUATION BY ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
1.  Introduction
This summary is prepared by the Albanian Development Fund, which is the executing agency responsible
for the implementation of the World Bank-financed "rural poverty alleviation" programme (April 1993-
June 1995). This project under the pilot phase performed its activities through infrastructure and credit
components.
2.  Impact of the Project
The implementation phase of the "Rural Poverty Alleviation" project (pilot phase) began in April 1993,
after the end of the pre-pilot phase (September 1992-January 1993). The amount available of US$2.4
million for infrastructure subprojects rehabilitation and US$881,000 for credit equivalent was financed
by IDA and other donors (UNDP and Frees d'Esperance).
The objectives under this programme were highly achieved through two main components, consisting of
infrastructure rehabilitation and small-scale credit. The rehabilitation and improvement of small rural
infrastructure subprojects using a participatory approach methodology (the rehabilitation of demand-driven
subprojects according to the most urgent local needs) through the employment of the local inhabitants,
had an impact on the development of economic activity through the development of the well-being of
village inhabitants and the development of the skills of the local community (communes and villages local
authorities) in local development.
The quantitative impact on the beneficiaries is expressed by the number of the projects rehabilitated
consisting in: 208 projects in 26 districts representing: 90 roads or 278 km rehabilitated; 30 water
supplies or 20 km tubes; 25 schools or 5,097me rehabilitated; 24 health centers or 5,318m2; 6 footbridges
or 525 m rehabilitated and the financial benefits. The rehabilitated infrastructure is directly benefiting
a population of 344,000 persons and corresponding to over 400,000 days of employment. The materials
and the labor cost on average is 70% of the subproject's cost.
The qualitative impact is very high regarding the improvement of the socio-economic environment by
breaking the isolation of people, reducing the distance to local markets, reducing the time spent by
women for transporting water, improving artisan productions, improving sanitary conditions by reducing
the need for medical care for intestinal infections, increasing agriculture production as a result of the
irrigation possibility for crops, improving living conditions by starting new commercial or service
activities, and establishing water users committee for subproject maintenance, etc.
Regarding the activity of credit (taking into account the farms it impacts) the objectives were highly
achieved and the impact is shown in: (a) the support for farmers to start economic activity; (b) the
stabilization of the new farms which have been established; and (c) the creation of the civil society. The
establishment of the Village Credit Organizations was the expression of what is achieved regarding the
civil society.
The impact of the credit's activity is expressed in quantitative figures as: 5,143 subloans granted, 100
villages, and the variety of the activities financed: livestock, agriculture, services, draft animals,
agriculture mechanization, trade, handicrafts, and processing, etc., and in the qualitative impact it had
on beneficiaries, because ADF's credit activity supported and accompanied the first steps to a market
economy, increasing farm income, increasing the capacity of people to feed themselves with livestock
products, and helping to prevent low income families from falling into a vicious circle of poverty. We
should keep in mind the milk produced in farms with cows and ruminants bought with credit, which led



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
to an quantitative and qualitative improvement of the food structure consumed by the families, increasing
the ratio of the proteins, etc. The psychological impact is also very important, taking into account the
possibilities the farmers have to plan the future development of their economic activities.
The impact is expressed also in the increase of agriculture equipment, diversification of economic
activities, encouragement for new ideas for income-generating activities by access to credit, the increase
of the number of livestock, and their vision for the future has substantially changed.
Through the financing of the income-generating activities for the villagers living in these areas, ADF
influenced the decrease in the migration rate. According to the farmers' opinion, the ADF's impact is
very significant in the evolution of the rural farms (the farms it concerns). The creation of the Village
Credit Committee assisted them to resolve their problems, rebuilding village solidarity and local
democracy. For all these reasons the repayment rate is 100%.
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project
The project's implementation took place during a difficult transition period the new democratic Albanian
Government confronted. The macroeconomics stabilization program under which the reform from plan
to market economy took place was accompanied by different problems as price stability, inflation, new
markets concepts, new marketing of inputs and outputs, etc. So, under the conditions of uncertainty, the
development of the risk aversion with the priority on food production needs is lower. Decentralization
of the state responsibilities represented problems to be resolved regarding the bank's performance
because of the poor state of the existing payments system which delayed the transfer of the funds. Also,
the existence of the state enterprises rendered difficult the creation of the maintenance funds and the
variety of the audits as well, etc.
4.   Project Sustainability
The project is considered to be sustainable in the sense that credit gave them a good start to a market
economy and now is the time to build up a financial institution that can support the villagers.
On the other hand the sustainability of the infrastructure projects would have been highly achieved with
the creation of the maintenance funds and the change of the mentality of people toward the establishment
of the decentralized structures for subproject maintenance. Considerable sensitization efforts and adequate
procedures have been set in place to promote close collaboration among people living in these areas
(villages) and the local authorities (communes).
5.   Bank Performance
The World Bank's performance is well done because it succeeded in the sense that it was not only an
institution which lends money but also the World Bank staff brought with their money the ideas, advises,
and opinions as well. They contributed to the formulation of objectives, strategy and procedures,
allowing a debate through Government, ADF, and farmers and with their accountability which was
important to the success of the project.
But, on the other hand, the project should have had from the beginning a clear objective of the concept
of institutionalization of the credit system and of the other components, in order to better prepare ADF's
passing this transformation process. Also, the Bank must better support the strict implementation of the
respective adapted procedures.
6.   Borrower Performance
ADF greatly benefited from the support of the government and its non-interference in the management
of the project. But, higher salaries for employees would have motivated the staff for more devotion and
would have accelerated the impact.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
In parallel with workshops, the distribution of booklets, videos, etc. regarding ADF's activity as an
important tools of wide communication has to be more often used in order to sensibilaze people for the
works performed.
More systematic staff training in order to increase their execution and rational capacity, and their
coherence with the rapid changes.
7.   Performance by Implementing Partners
The performance of the partners is highly achieved because they were made more conscientious for the
new approach represented regarding the initiatives for a market economy and organizations to resolve the
problems at village level. The efforts of the credit's staff has not to be underestimated for the partner's
performance as well.
Nevertheless changes of the mantality of communes's regarding subproject maintenance has too much to
be done. The sensibilazation of the communes with the new economic situation under the decentralization
of the state responsibilities assisting them to understand the local ownership concept is the main task
which must be taken into account in order to achieve the best performance of the implementing partners.
8.   Key Lessons Learned
The strengths of the project are as the following:
- Village Credit Organizations can be run very well under Albanian conditions and they found an
effective method for developing a flexible demand-driven project in a transition economy. That means
that the strategy of working in Albania was adopted by specific conditions it presented compared with
other countries, here the same projects have been implemented.
- Project staff are highly motivated, dedicated to the project's socioeconomic objectives and they
are trained in a participatory process looking for innovation and changes.
- The participation of the beneficiaries in the design of the credit program through Village Credit
organizations led to greater ownership and reduced risk. Village traditions using the village-level
solidarity helped them in the performance of the new credit system reducing the risk and increasing the
efficiency.
- The farmers adapt themselves in the market economy using the credits in an efficient way and
improving their performance.
- The interest of the people in such projects should take into account to support its spread to other
countries.
- The simplification of the administrative procedures regarding infrastructure projects.
- The active participation in the training of the staff of the communes.
- The financial participation of the communities in the investments.
- The respectability of the maintenance dispozitives.
m:EaIb\iurpov\&ppenda. icr






Appendix B
Page 1 of 4
Table 1: Rural Infrastructure Subprojects Fiuanced by IDA (24C1-ALB)
No. of       Physical      Total Amount       Average     Number of
Subprojects     Quantity       Contracted      Subproject   Subprojects
Staited       Started          (Lek)           Size        Funishd
(Lek)
Rural Roads         38             146 km         81,562,372    2,150,000       35
Water Supplies      10              20 km         10,381,621     1,000,000      10
Irrigation          7         13 km/580 ha        16,147,893    2,300,000        3
Health Centers      9            2,580 m2          6,893,283      800,000        7
Schools             10           2,053 m2          4,840,587      500,000       10
Footbridges         5                 391          1,969,159      400,000        5
Other                1                             2,717,500    2,700,000        1
TOTAL               80                  -        124,512,415     1,500,000      71
Table 2: Rural Infrastr ue  Subprojects Flnanced by Governmen of Italy Grant
No. of      Physical      Total Amount      Averge      Number of
Subprojects   Quantity       Contrmcted      Subproject   Subprojects
Started      Started         (Lek)            Size       Fmished
(Lek)
Rural Roads          34        77 km         68,190,191     2,000,000           25
Water Suppliea       11        21 km         14,063,968     1,300,000            9
Irrigation            4       16 km I         6,791,062     1,700,000            3
485 ha
Health Centers       13      2508 m2         10,823,622      830,000            10
Schools              14      3,044 m2        11,082,947      800,000            10
Other                 3            -          4,139,150     1,300,000            3
TOTAL                79            -        115,090,740     1,500,000           60
Table 3: Rural Infrastructure Subprojects Financed by EU (Phare) Grant
No. of      Physical      Total Amount      Average     Number of
Subprojects   Quantity       Contracted      Subproject   Subprojects
Started      Stated          (Lek)            Size       Finished
(Lek)
Rural Roads          IS            55        48,431,476     2,700,000            8
Water Supplies        9            25        19,995,546     2,200,000            1
Irrigation           11       64 km /        27,387,473     2,500,000            2
1,974 ha
Health Centers        2           230         3,506,956     1,800,000            1
Footbridges           1           133           688,938      690,000             1
Other                 I            -          1,566,710     1,600,000            1
TOTAL                42            -        101,577,099     2,400,000           14



Appendix B
Page 2 of 4
Table 4: Rural Inrtra cture  Subprojects inanced by Govermnent of France Grant
No. of       Physical     Total Amount         Averap         Number of
Subprojects   Quantity       Contracted       Subproject Size    Subprojects
Sbrted       Stared          (Lek)              (Lek)          Fuiisbed
Irrigation            6       48 km /         18,941,400         3,200,000            2
1,100 km
School                 I                       1,830,382         1,900,000             1
TOTAL                  7                                                               3
Table 5: Total Rural Infrastucture Subprojets
(IDA 2461, Italian, EU Phare, and French Financing)
No. of        Physical        Tota Amount       Average      Number of
Subprojecb      Quantity         Contracted      Subproject    Subprojects
Started        Started           (Ok)             Size        Finished
(Lek)
Rural Roads          90           278 km            201,611         2,240           40
water Supplies       30             66 km            44,441         1,481            10
Irigaion             28   136 km/4,139 ha            69,268         2,474             8
Health Centers       24          5,318 m             21,244           834            11
Schools              25          5,097 min           17,623           705            11
Footbridges           6             524 m             2,658           443             1
Other                 5                 -             8,423         1,685             4
TOTAL                20S                            365,249         1,756            85
Table 6: Total Rural Infrastructure Subprojets
(IDA 2461, Italian, EU Phare, and French Financing)
IDA (2461)   Government      EU (Phare)      Government    TOTAL
of Italy                       of France
No. of Disticts                                  16            17                12            2              26
No. of Comwnuns                                  63           59                 40            6             145
No. Inplmented by Ptivate Contcton                6             9                21             5             41
%ImplenwntedbyPrivaeContractors                 1 %          11%               50%          63%             20%
No. of Subprojets with   Ma nce Funds            37           48                 28            7             120
% of Subprqet with Maidenancendhu              46%          61%                67%          100%            58%
Number of Beneficiaries                     120,300       120,000            91,100        13,000        344,400



Appendix B
Page 3 of 4
Table 7: Total Rural Infrastructure Subprojeis
(IDA 2461, Italian, EU Phare, and French Fnancing)
District         Rural       Water    Ligaidon    Schools        Health      Otber       Toa
Roads      Supply                             Centers
Berat              2           2                                                           4
Bulqize             1                                              3                       4
Diber              9            1                      7           2                       19
Durres                         5           2           1                                   7
Elbasan            7                       1           1           5           2          16
Fier                3                                                                      3
Gramsh              7          4                       3                                   14
Has                                                                1                       1
Korce                                      5           1                                   6
Kruje               2                      1                                               3
Kucove                          1                                  1                       2
Kukes               4           1          1           2                                   8
Kurbin              1           1          2                                               4
Lczhe               1          2           5                       1                       9
Librazhd           7            1          3           1           2                      14
M.Madhe             1          3                       1                                   5
Mat                10           1                                  1           1           13
Mirdite            10           1          3           1                                   14
Pogradec                                   1                                               I
Puke               4                                   1           3                       9
Shkoder            6           1                                                           6
Skrapar                        3                       1           1           1           6
Tepelene           5           2                       1                       1           9
Tirane             2                       1           1                       3           7
Tropoje             6          3           2           3           4           1          19
Vlore              2            1                                              2           5
Total              90          30          22          24         24          11          208



Appendix B
Page 4 of 4
Table 8: Average Subproject Size by Year (All Donors)
Subproject            1993          1994          1995
Started in:
Rural Roads        2,100,000    2,100,000    3,000,000
Water Supplies       960,000    1,200,000    2,200,000
Irrigation                  --    1,800,000    2,600,000
Schools              630,000    1,200,000    1,200,000
Health Centers       480,000    1,200,000    1,800,000
Other                530,000    1,000,000    4,800,000
Total              1,300,000    1,700,000    2,800,000
Table 9: Use of Contractors vs. Communes for Subproject Implementation
(All Donors)
Subproject Started in:               1993          1994          1995
% Implemented by Private             0%            15%           53%
Contractors
Table 10: Village Credit Fund Program, December 31, 1995 (cumulative, all donors),
District    No.    No.                              Capital by Donor (US$000)"                             Total Initial
of      of                                                                  -------- --- -    Capital
VCF    Loans   FE/UNDP2'  1DA                Italy       E.U.         Swiss       IFAD
Diber          9      403                                  85,070                               68,260        153,330
Kukes          4       84                                                                       36,222         36,222
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Puka           3       99                                                          43,672                      43,672
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Elbasan       35   2,112          88,000     153,024      177,378    166,201                                  584,603
Gramsh        18      937         13,969      67,575      124,153      76,520                                 282,217
Kruje          6      351                     30,954       59,969       5,046                                  95,969
Librazhd       2       55                                   7,705                                               7,705
Tirana        14      701                     36,584      184,998                                            221,582
Vlore          9      401                     30,126       65,714      40,038                                 135,878
TOTAL        100   5,143         101,969    318,263    704,987    287,805          43,672    104,482        1,561,178
1/Represents funds disbursed within the villages. Additional funds were disbursed from donor accounts, and were in
transit to villages or not yet disburwed in credits.
2/Funds of Frbres d'Esperance and UNDP provided during the 'pre-pilot' phase.
m:&I%b\nupavappnd_b.icr






IMAGINNG
Report No:      15704
Type: ICR



