CL  I Y/ 6/- AZJ/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICL USE ONLY
MICRDF fICIHE COPY
R c-ort Nci. -P- 5?59 ALB    i'fpe: kPII)
liti-:  RURAL fPOVERI'V  ALLE:YIATION PI Oj
4)uthor: O'SULI-IVArN. R.                                           Rqort No. P-5959-ALB
t sR- :.6 R 7om:01111049? Dpt . :EC2AW^
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEV3LOYPENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 1.80 MILLION
TO
ALBANILA
FOR A
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVITION PILOT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 2, 1993
This document has a restricted distibut,in and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Lek per US$)
Jan-Aug    Sept-Dec  Jan-May       Nov
1987-90    1991       1991       1992      1992
US$1.00 = lek          8.00     10.00       25.00     50.00     90-100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric System
ALBANIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect SurgEr-y
Borrower:                   Government of Albania
Beneficiary:                Rural Development Fund
Amount:                     SDR 1.80 million (US$2.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms, with 40-year maturity.
Relendina Terms:            Grant
Financino Plan :            IDA       SDR 1.80 million ($2.4 million equivalent)
EC       $2.0 million
UNDP     $0.4 million
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Aporaisal ReiDort:    Report No. 11405-ALB
Map:                        IBRD No. 24351
1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
Or THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ALBANIA
FOR A RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
1.       I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed development credit to Albania for SDR 1.80
million (US$2.4 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity, to help finance a poverty alleviation pilot project.
2.       Backoround: Albania's economy - and particularly .ts agricultural
sector - are in crisis. The 65% of Albania's population who live in the rural
areas have been severely affected by social unrest, damage to already
deficient infrastructure, and the near total breakdown of agricultural credit,
input, processing, and marketing mechanisms. While privatization has created a
new class of some 380,000 private farmers, their holdings are tiny - averaging
only 1.4 ha - and often scattered. Farmers lack the capital to purchase inputs
or otherwise improve their holdings, and an absence of alternative employment
opportunities prevents the land consolidation that will be needed to create
economic holdings.1 Farmers in the hilly and mountainous areas that cover
43% of Albania - and where land is both scarcer and of lower quality - are
reverting to subsistence agriculture in an attempt to feed their families.
3.       The Government has established a rudimentary rural safety net of cash
payments and wheat subsidies, and is moving to meet this set of interlocked
problems by undertaking a Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (para. 6). The
proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project would finance a year-long
pilot phase of this program through a Rural Development Fund that would
finance public works to repair and rehabilitate infrastructure and create
incomes in the rural economy, and small-scale credit to meet the immediate
needs of farmers and rural micro-entrepreneurs. Both facets of the program
would be structured on a bottom-up basis relying strongly on Albania's new
local government structure of some 2,700 villages grouped into 314 communes.
4.       The need to repair rural infrastructure provides an opportunity to
provide employment for the rural population while at the same time
contributing to economic recovery. Albania's already very poor rural
infrastructure suffered considerable damage in the unrest of recent years.
Around 10,000 km of rural roads need to be rehabilitated, 450 of 2,700
villages lack water supply networks, and about a third of the existing village
water networks need repairing or extension. Village irrigation schemes need
repair. Besides immediate repair of the electrical network and of the pumping
stations, re-electrification of rural areas has to be considered. Telephone
networks have been badly damaged and the wires used to make fences for the new
private plots. Finally, during the unrest in 1991 around 870 schools were
damaged in the villages, and about SO burned.
5.       The dismantling of the cooperatives, which were in charge of
maintaining rural infrastructure, created an institutional gap and left no one
responsible for rural infrastructure maintenance and development. Recently,
local government reform has given a major role to the communes, each of which
comprise eight to nine villages. The organization of communal services is
I/ Legislation allowing farmers to lease or sell land, a necessary
precondition for consolidation into more economic holdings, has not yet been
passed by the Parliament.



- 2 -
under way, and legislation is under preparation and will shortly be submitted
to Parliament concerning the organization of the villages and the election of
village heads.
6.       To respond to the serious poverty problems in the rural areas and to
help start economic activity, the Government has proposed a four-year Rural
Poverty Alleviation Program. The Program involves (a) a rural works program;
(b) a new approach to small-scale rural credit using village credit funds; and
(c) studies, training and technology development. The Program is being
implemented in a phased way as follows:
Phase 1: Early test actions, already underway, comprise the execution
of two small rural works projects, and the first village and
farm sur,"eys. They are being financed by Freres
d'Esp6rauce, a French NGO, for a total amount of US$20,000.
Phase 2: Pro-pilot phase which started in November 1992, is testing
the organizational and technical approaches possible for
eight more rural works projects and seven Village Credit
Funds. This phase (US$100,000) is being financed by UNDP.
Phase 3: Pilot phase, involving an IDA-financed project. This is the
project described in this Memorandum. It is scheduled to
start in early Spring 1993. The pilot project financed by
IDA and other donors will amount to approximately US$4.7
million for the first year.
Phase 4: Full-scale project, amounting to approximately US$32 million
over three years, which could be co-financed by IDA and
other donors if the pilot phase is successful. It would
extend the project to the whole country.
7.       The rural works program will rehabilitate and repair basic local
infrastructure and inject cash into the rural economy. Subprojects will be
initiated by the villages and managed at the local level. The types of
infrastructure to be financed will be chosen under locally defined priorities.
The two main criteria will be the economic and social impact of projects, and
the labor intensity of works.
8.       Subproject size will be limited to be compatible with local
capacities in terms of execution, maintenance and coverage of recurrent costs.
Subprojects will be executed under contracts defining works, their costs and
timing, and maintenance responsibilities. Rehabilitating rural infrastructure
will create employment opportunities and generate cash income desperately
needed not only to buy basic farm inputs but also to ensure family survival in
the poorest districts.
9.       Albania's rural credit system is still rudimentary, and few farmers
have access to either seasonal credit for inputs or longer-term loans. Farmers
have reacted by adopting a subsistence risk-avoiding strategy that
concentrates on the food security of their own families rather than producing
marketable surpluses. The one formal rural credit institution, the Albanian
Bank for Agricultural Development (ABAD), is still at a very elementary stage
of lending to farmers and rural entrepreneurs and lacks the institutional
capacity to develop small credit, or to cover the high transaction costs of
small-scale rural lending. In this context, it is necessary to design and
test a system of rural credit that can address the needs of small farmers and



- 3 -
entrepreneurs while ABAD concentrates on larger loans and develops the
expertise to process small ones. Such a system has been worked out with
farmers and ABAD local staff; it is based on the creation of village credit
funds that will enable financial intermediation to take place at the local
level.
10.      The Pilot Phase will be implemented by the Rural Development Fund
(RDF), a recently established autonomous agency under the Council of
Ministers.
Proiect Obiectives
11.      The Government's Rural Poverty Alleviation Proaram has three main
objectives: (a) to create employment for the rural population and inject cash
resources into rural households, (b) to repair basic rural infrastructure, and
(c) to use small-scale credit to promote private sector activities and help
create a rural market econcny. It will also provide feedback for developing a
rural policy and the on-going local government and finance reform, and
implement a new economic and financial approach at the local level. The
objectives of the Pilot Project are to set up the Rural Development Fund and
test approaches to the .mplementation of the Program during its first year of
operation.
Proiect Description
12.      Within the general objectives of Albania's Rural Poverty Alleviation
Program, the proposed pilot project would:
(a) Create the institutional capacity needed for program
implementation by establishing the Rural Development Fund and
training a first group of local staff.
(b) Develop RDF's operational procedures and mechanisms of technical
and financial control.
(c) Evaluate, design, finance, and implement approximately 142 rural
infrastructure projects, and establish and fund some 50 village
credit funds. infrastructure projects would include rehabilitating
ex-cooperative dirt roads, repairing or extending water supply and
irrigation systems, repairing and rebuilding schools and possibly
health centers, and establishing new market facilities. Village
credit funds would provide small loans - averaging about US$100 - for
both agricultural and non-agricultural activities.
(d) Establish and implement, using technical assistance as necessary,
training programs to improve the capacity of village credit funds to
evaluate and administer small loans, and programs to transfer
appropriate technology to farmers and small rural entrepreneurs.
Proiect Imolementation
13.      RDF, the project implementing agency, will sign contracts with
communes and other local institutions (e.g., water user associations) for the
execution of civil works subprojects. In most cases, these works will be
organized and carried out directly by local authorities, which will hire local
technicians to supervise the works. As small-scale contractors do not yet
exist in rural Albania, the local partners will also hire local workers to



- 4 -
construct the works under regulations and wage rates spelled out in their
contracts with RDF and the RDF Operational Guidelines. RDF bookkeeping and
oversight procedures will also be set out in its Operational Guidelines. It is
anticipated that by the time the pilot project is completed local contracting
capability will be more developed and some communes will be able to use local
shopping procedures based on inviting and comparing bids from several
contractors. RDF, assisted by foreign consultants, will also carry out the
studies, training, and technology transfer components. For small-scale credit,
RDF will contract with elected village credit committees, in whose favor it
will establish accounts in Albania's Bank for Agricultural Development. The
village committees wiill approve loans - of up to US$300 during the pilot phase
- to farmers and micro-entrepreneurs. Loan repayments will be indexed to
inflation, so that interest rates will be positive in real terms. The credit
program will also test rural savings mobilization mechanisms aimed at makinq
the village credit funds self-sustaining.
Environmental Aspects
14.      The project has been assigned an environmental category 'B' rating,
and does not require an environmental assessment. Given the types of
subprojects to be financed under the project, no significant environmental
impact is expected, and in some cases these subprojects would promote improved
natural resource management: it may be possible to include environmentally
positive reforestation works in the list of projects to be contracted with the
communes, and village credit funds could be used to finance seedlings or
nurseries to plant fruit trees along the boundaries of farm plots. A set of
environmental criteria would be developed and applied to each subproject
through a standard subproject checklist. These criteria would be drafted by a
consultant specializing in natural resource management and included in the RDF
operational manuals. Public facilities to be built or repaired would include
proper waste disposal facilities, and rural roads and irrigation systems would
be designed to mitigate erosion potential. With regard to the rural credit
component, IDA is providing support to the Government of Albania under the
June 1992 Critical Imports Project in the selection of appropriate
fertilizers, pesticides and related safety equipment.
Women in Development
15.      Albania's rural women are now entirely absorbed by farm tasks, as
their overriding concern is to ensure family food security until next harvest.
They do most of the manual work, which has increased because of the
mechanization crisis brought on by a lack of operating tractors, the
inadequacy of tractors for preparing small plots size, and the cost of tractor
services. They often work 15-hour days, and have few opportunities to develop
other activities. The proposed project would address this issue in a number of
ways. Increasing rural incomes and providing credit would allow an increasing
amount of cultivation to be carried out with mechanical or animal power
because farmers would have cash to hire rented services. Water supply
subprojects carried out under the project would reduce the very heavy and
time-consuming task of carrying water, which is mainly carried out by women.
Project preparation also included discussions with village women's
associations, which are preparing specific credit programs for women that
could be financed by the RDF. These programs could be organized on the basis
of the solidarity group approach inspired by the experience of the Grameen
Bank in Bangladesh.



Rat_onale for IDA Involvement
16.      IDA support for Albania's Rural Poverty Alleviation Program, starting
with the proposed Pilot Project is fully in line with the Bank Group's
overarching oojective of addressing poverty in economically efficient ways. It
is now urgent for the Government to start directing resources toward
activities that foster economic development while alleviating poverty.
Albania's Rural Poverty Alleviation Program would achieve these goals by
providing incomes in very poor rural areas while improving infrastructure and
providing small-scale credit to allow increased economic activity. The Program
will also begin the critical task of creating new locally based institutions
to take over the infrastructure development and maintenance functions of the
dissolved cooperatives.
Agreed Actions
17.       The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) Appointment of an RDF Executive Director and any subsequent
successors during the project period will be subject to consultation with, and
approval by, IDA; (b) RDF will draw up Regulations and Operational Guidelines
acceptable to IDA, and any changes in these manuals will only be made in
consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association; (c) The RDF will
establish a Special Project Account denominated in US dollars in a local or
foreign bank acceptable to IDA; (d) RDF will establish accounting procedures
acceptable to IDA, have its accounts audited internally every quarter, and a
full audit of project accounts, by private inter-national independent auditors
acceptable to IDA will be submitted within six months of the end of the fiscal
year; (e) RDF will submit to the Association quarterly progress reports on
subprojects approved for financing, the progress of village credit funds, and
monitoring and supervision results; and, (f) RDF will undertake evaluation of
the Pilot Project for the purpose of designing the Phase 4 Full-Scale Project
eight months after effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
18.      The proposed conditions of effectiveness are: (a) Execution of an
agreement under which the Government would make the Credit proceeds available
to RDF on a grant basis; (b) Appointment of an RDF Executive Director
acceptable to the Association; and, (c) Compilation of RDF operational
Guidelines acceptable to the Association.
Benefits
19.      The proposed project's direct and immediate benefits would come from
the approximately 142 rural works projects it would finance, and the 5,000
small loans expected to be disbursed from the 50 Village Funds that would be
created. Payment of some 542,000 person-days of wages to workers on public
works subprojects would also inject much-needed cash into Albania's rural
economy.
20.      The project's monitoring and evaluation components would result in
further benefits by providing feedback to adjust and shape the countrywide
Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of which this pilot project would be a
preliminary phase. These lessons will include information on communes and
individual farmer needs, institutional and practical constraints, priority
types of projects, prices and costs, and methods of work.



- 6 -
21.      The proposed project is expected to have another set of benefits,
which are important, but difficult to evaluate. At the center, commune, and
village levels it would provide hands-on practice in evaluating projects and
credit proposals, managing investment resources, and planning and overseeing
project implementation and maintenance. The rules and practices of a market
economy will, thus, be introduced at a local as well as a macroeconomic level,
strengthening new government institutiona and preparing them for a continuing
role in rural Albania's development.
Risks
22.      Test and pre-pilot phases that included significant inji!ut from the
commune and village levels should greatly reduce project start-up problems.
While local, particularly commune, organizations are weak, the experience of
the pre-pilot phase shows that good professional staff are available and
training and technical assiatance should provide them adequate support as
institutional strength is built up. Moreover, the process approach allows for
continuous adjustment of the program. The pilot phase to be supported by the
proposed project would build on the experience of the test and pre-pilot
phases and would be evaluated after eight months to appraise the feasibility
of a successor full-scale project. The main risks are common to all social or
rural devel-pment funds, and include political interference, which would be
minimized by RDF's autonomous status. The other major risk is inherent to the
learning by doing aspect of the proposed pilot project; this would be
minimized by strong supervision and technical assistance supported by the
project's built-in monitoring and feedback components.
23.      Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 2, 1993



-7-
Schedule A
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
Cost Estimates
(US$ 000)
LocAl  Foreian  Total
Rural Works        1,510.5       79.5 1,590
Small-Scale          675.0      75.0   750
Credit
Studies,             153.7     212.3   366
Technology, and
Training
Equipment for RDF     18.4     350.6   369
RDF Recurrent        478.5     195.5   674
Costs
Technical            355.6     660.4 1,016
Assistance
Total              3,191.7  1,573.3 4,765
Financina Plan
(USS millions)
IDA               2.4
EC                 2.0
UNDP               0.4
TOTAL              4.8



-8--
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Procurement Arranoementsll
(US$000)
Category of Expendi           ICB            LC8        Other           TOTAL            % Share of
ture                                                                                          IDA
Civil Works                                      -        1,590           1,590                69
(1,130)        (1,130)
Equipment & Materials                            -        369            369                  100
(369)          (369)
Technical Assistance,           -                -        1,342           1,342                39
Studies, Technology                                       (400)           (400)
and Training
Credit Funds                    -                -        750            750                   33
(300)          (300)
Recurrent Costs                                  -        674            674                   34
(201)          (201)
Total Financing                                        4,765           4,765                 50
Requirements                                            (2,400)        (2,400)
Y  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.  Civil works
would be procured through local shopping procedures; equipment and materials
through local and international shopping procedures; international consultants
would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines on consultant selection.



-9-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Disbursement Plan
Items                          Amount       % Financina
(SDR Equivalent)
Civil Works                    750,000      100
Small-Scale Credits            200,000      100%
Technical Assistance,
Studies,
and Training                   270,000      100%
Equipment                      250,000      100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
Incremental Operating
Costs                          135,000      100%
Unallocated                    195.000      100%
TOTAL                      1.800.000
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY93       FY94          FY95
----…US$ million---------
Annual                   0.2          1.0         1.2
Cumulative               0.2          1.2         2.4



- 10 -
Schedule C
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Prolect Processinci Even.ts
(a) Time Taken to Prepare . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 months
(b) Prepared by Government with Assistance of IDA . . . 1992
(c) First IDA Mission . . . . . . . . . . . . . August 1992
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure . . . . . . . December 1992
(e) Negotiations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . January 1993
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness . . . . . . March 31, 1993
(g) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs . . . . . . . . . . None



- 11 -
Schedule D
ALBANIA
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PILOT PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALBANIA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS 1
(As of December 31, 1992)
USS Million
Credit  Fiscal                                                               (Less Cancellations)
No.     Year          Borrower                  Prolect                     Credit     Undisbursed
2404    1992    Republic of Albania       Critical Imqports Project         41.1          39.21
Total                                41.i
Of Which: Repaid
Total now held by the Bank           41.1
Total Amount Sold                      0.0
Of Which: Repaid                      0.0
Total Undisbursed                                       39.21
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1992)
IFC investment activities in Albania are under preparation.
l/      The status of these projects  is described  in a separate report  on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



I                  I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
- s                         ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~To Sar4ievo   f f2                                          1
\!    <   r.bs>V  S                  e                   9       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Prislirna
SEA                       Ce  n e
4?
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION
PILOT PROJECT
10 POOREST DISTRICTS
E l  P T 0   o STRC
f tRECTD TOVS   AND CMES
0 NMlONAL CAITAL                              r X ,
-    RALOADS                                                                             Strugo$3 3C
AIRPORr                              UR                                                          OBtl
4.tPORTS
- DISCT BOUNDARIES *                                                                                ke
-   NTRNATIONAL BOUNDARIESLu
ELEVATIONS IN NEARS
oh  lowe `t i distf   isbsed o 2 to d326r1' s.
~~eke~~~~eI~~~    e~~~~o.oe.e.o.k-                            O ON
190                                                                         2 6 2
40,        KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



