Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2461 ALB
Project Agreement
(Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated March 2, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2461 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (RDF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,800,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
RDF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS (B) by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RDF, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to RDF on such terms and conditions as set forth in 
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS RDF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) RDF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and RDF shall otherwise agree, RDF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. RDF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. RDF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RDF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) RDF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RDF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RDF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of RDF
Section 3.01. RDF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. RDF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial 
practices.
Section 3.03. RDF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 4.01. (a) RDF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
RDF shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request, including internal quarterly audits which shall consist 
of a financial assessment and a physical inspection of works in 
the field on a sample basis.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RDF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date four (4) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify RDF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Page  4
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For RDF:
c/o Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4209 MIN. BUJQ.
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RDF, or by RDF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director of RDF or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director of RDF shall designate in writing, and RDF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ Roland Bimo
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,130,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under direct contracting in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
2.
Goods for Subsidiary Lending up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under Schedule 2 paragraph 2 (b) of this Agreement.
3.
Goods for RDF, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers from three eligible countries under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. Local 
shopping procedures may be utilized for minor equipment and supplies to be procured 
locally up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000.
Page  5
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in Parts C and D of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to 
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Association and to amendments of contracts raising the contract 
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
RDF shall carry out the Sub-projects under Part A of the Project through the 
Requesting Entities, and, to this end, without limitation upon its other obligations 
under this Agreement, RDF
shall: 
(a)
make available to the Requesting Entities the Sub-loans referred to in 
the Regulation and Operational Guidelines under Sub-project Agreements to be entered 
into between the RDF and each of the Requesting Entities, under the terms and 
conditions referred to in the Regulation and Operational Guidelines and which shall 
have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Sub-project Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Association and RDF and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Sub-project 
Agreements, or any provisions thereof.
Page  6
2.
RDF shall carry out the Subsidiary Lending under Part B of the Project through 
the village credit committees, and, to this end, without limitation upon its other 
obligations under this Agreement, RDF shall:
(a)
make available to the village credit committees the funds referred to in 
the Regulation and Operational Guidelines through village credit funds to be sub-lent 
to the Beneficiaries by Subsidiary Lending Agreements to be entered into between the 
village credit committees and each of the Beneficiaries, under the terms and 
conditions referred to in the Regulation and Operational Guidelines and which shall 
have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
require that the goods and materials to be procured under the Subsidiary 
Lending Agreements shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also 
of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of 
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor.
3.
RDF shall:
 
(a)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise 
the carrying out by the Requesting Entities and Beneficiaries of their obligations 
pursuant to their respective Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
take all measures to ensure that the aggregate amount of all Subsidiary 
Lendings, or the amount of any one Subsidiary Lending, made by the Requesting  
Entities or any one Requesting Entity, to any one Beneficiary shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $1,000; and
(c)
carry out a mid-term review not later than September 30, 1993 evaluating 
the progress of the Project.
