                                              Document o f
                                          The WorldBank

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo: 32512-TD




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

           PROPOSEDGLOBALENVIRONMENTALFACILITYTRUST FUNDGRANT

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUSD6 MILLION


                                                TO THE

                                         REPUBLICOFCHAD

                                                 FORA

                   COMMUNITY-BASEDECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENTPROJECT

                                              May 31,2005




Environmental, Rural and Social Development Central Africa
Country Department 07
Africa Regional Office




This document has a restricteddistribution andmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 2005)

                             Currency Unit = CFA Franc (FCFA)
                                   FCFA 1 = US$0.002
                                     US$l = FCFA500

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 -- December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASPOP    Agncultural Services andProducer Organizations Project
APL      Adaptive Program Lending
BSAP     Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan
CBEM     Community-Based Ecosystem Management
FACIL    Local Initiatives Fund(Fonds dgctions Concertkes d'lnitiative Locale)
FADN     Fight Against DesertificationNational Plan
FOSAP    Population Support Fund(Fonds de Soutien awc Activitks de Population)
GOC      Government of Chad
IEM      IntegratedEcosystem Management
LPMU     LocalProject Management Unit
LDP      LocalDevelopment Plan
MA       MinistryofAgriculture
MATUH    MinistryofLandManagement, UrbanismandHabitat
ME       MinistryofLivestock
MEW      MinistryofEnvironment andWater
MD       Ministryof Decentralization
MIS      MonitoringInformation System
MPED     MinistryofEconomic PromotionandDevelopment
MTP      Ministryof Transport
NEAP     National Environmental Action Plan
PIDR     RuralDevelopment Support Program (Programme d'lntewention pour le
         Dkveloppement Rural)
P I M    Project ImplementationManual
P M U    Project Management Unit
PROADEL  LocalDevelopment Program Support Project
PRODABO  Assoungha, Biltine andOuara Decentralized RuralDevelopment Program
PRODALKA Lake Lere, Mayo-Dallah andKabbia Decentralized Rural Development Program
PSAP     Agricultural Services Program
sc       Steering Committee


                             Vice President:   GobindNankani
                           Country Director:   Ali M.Khadr
                            Sector Manager:    JosephBaah-Dwomoh
                             Task Manager:     Valerie Layrol

                                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                     CHAD
                    COMMUNITY-BASEDECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENTPROJECT


                                                 CONTENTS




    A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

       1, Project development objective                                                      2
       2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy(CAS) goal supported by the project      4
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  9

    C. Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                 10
       2. Key policy andinstitutionalreforms supportedby the project                         13
       3, Benefits andtarget population                                                      14
       4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                       18

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                           22
       2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        23
       3. Lessonslearned andreflected inthe project design                                   23
       4. Indications o fborrower andrecipient commitment andownershp                        26
       5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                             26

    E. Summary Project Analysis

       1. Economic                                                                           28
       2. Financial                                                                          28
       3. Technical                                                                          28
       4. Institutional                                                                      28
       5. Environmental                                                                      30
       6. Social                                                                             31
       7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                  33




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed             ,
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                  34
   2. Critical risks                                  36
   3. Possible controversial aspects                  37


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                         37
   2. Other                                           37

H. Readinessfor Implementation                        37

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                          38


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                       39
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                  45
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                      51
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                    52
Annex 5: Financial Summary                            67
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements    68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                  84
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                 85
Annex 9: Statemento f Loans andCredits                86
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                         87
Annex 11: Flow o f funds                              89
Annex 12: Review by Expert from STAP Roster           90

                                                       CHAD
                                 Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
                                        ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                                Africa Regional Office
                                                       AFTS3

Date: May 31,2005                                          Team Leader: Valerie Marie Helene Layrol
Sector Manager: JosephBaah-Dwomoh                          Sector@): General agriculture, fishingandforestry sector
Country Director: Ali Khadr                                (100%)
Project ID: PO78138                                        Theme(s): Biodiversity (P), Water resourcemanagement
FocalArea: M- Multi-focal area                             (S), Other environment andnaturalresourcesmanagement
                                                           (SI



For LoanslCreditslothers:




GERMANY:BMZ                                                               16.00              6.00           22.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                           3.60             0.00            3.60
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT                                       2.45             3.00            5.45
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT           - ASSOCIATED     IDAFUND                     34.43              5.33           39.76




Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF LANDMANAGEMENT,URBANISM AND HABITAT
Address: Ministkre de l'Am6nagement duTerritoire, de 1'Urbanisme et de 1'Habitat
Route de Farcha sis enceinte du Ministere des Travaux Publics, B.P. 436 N'djamena, Tchad
Tel: 235 51 78 59                Fax:                  Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Cellule Permanentede Suivi de la Table Ronde de Genkve IV
Address: B.P. 750,N'Djamena, Tchad
Contact Person: Mr Abakar Souleymane
Tel: (235) 52.07.49               Fax:                  Email:
Ministkre de 1'Environnementet de 1'Eau
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Mahadie OuthmanIssa
Tel: (235) 52 66 41               Fax:                  Email:
PO78138 Estimated Disbursements( Bank FY/US$m):

    Annual1    0.50          1.20       1.70         1.90        0.70
Cumulative(    0.50   II     1.70 II    3.40   II    5.30  1I    6.00  11
Project implementationperiod: 4 years
Expected effectivenessdate: 0913012005 Expected closing date: 0313112010

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
  In 2004, the World Bank approved a Local Development Program Support Project (PROADEL) to
  assist the Government of Chad to complete the decentralization framework andto designand implement
  a decentralized, participatory financing mechanism that can empower local communities and
  decentralized authorities to manage funds for local development. PROADEL will achievethese goals by:
  (i)strengthening the capacity and responsibility o f local communities and decentralized authorities, (ii)
  implementingdemand-dnven subprojects, and (iii)      supporting the emergmg process of decentralization.
  PROADEL is viewed by the Government as the key mechanism to support decentralization and
  community development under the framework o f its Rural Development Support Framework (PIDR).
  Under the umbrella of the PIDR, the World Bank is also addressing agricultural productivity growth,
  marketing, and cotton sector reform through the complementary Agricultural Services and Producer
  Organizations Support Project (ASPOP), while the German Cooperation i s supporting decentralized
  rural development through more targeted programs in particular geographical sub-regions (e.g. the
  PRODALKA andPRODABO programs).

   The GEF Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project under the Local Development Program
   Support Project, will complement all of the four components o f the PROADEL, as well as some
   associated aspects of the other baseline projects ASPOP, PRODABO and PRODALKA. As the
   PROADEL i s structured as an APL, the elaboration of GEF activities has been designed to follow a
   parallel approach that is structured, yet long-term inoutlook andphasedinstages. Therefore, while this
   Project Brief outlines the parameters of a first phase o f GEF interventions, it is assumed that in
   subsequentphases an expansion and replication of these would be developed, covering a much larger
   cross-section o f the country's most fragile ecosystems, and that a consolidation of institutional and
   policy reforms as well as environmental monitoring capacity could be supported. This parallel phasing
   also takes into account a shared strategy with the Government of Chad that the integration o f
   ecosystem management approaches and methodologies into community-based planning will not only
   improve the design o f individual PROADEL components, but also serve as durable framework under
   which a range o f new interventions and collaborations canbe coordinated at the nationallevel.

   Specific development Obiectives o fthe GEF Proiect:

   The objective of the GEF Community BasedEcosystem Management Project is to restore some of the
   Recipient's most fragile ecosystems by enabling local communities to better fight desertification,
   rehabilitate degraded lands and protect biodiversity. It will be fully integrated into the design and
   implementation o f the first phase of the PROADEL, whose development objective is to reduce poverty,
   promote sustainable rural development, and establish a participatory, decentralized financing
   mechanism for community-dnven development initiatives.

   The primary vehicle to achieve this objective will be financial and technical support for
   community-driven,     integrated environmental management plans and subprojects that can
   simultaneously address local development needs and both local and global environmental challenges.
   The project will also contribute to buildingnational capacity to monitor ecosystem quality and trends,
   particularly as they relate to biodiversity and land degradation.




                                                     - 2 -

   These objectives would be achevedthrough the following activities:

       co-financing of demand dnven community-based subprojects that improve or restore local
       ecosystems and that promote better natural resource management, with an emphasis on activities
       that promotebiodiversity conservation andlandmanagement ;

       support for the adoption and dissemination o f new technologies andpractices relevant to integrated
       ecosystemmanagement,biodiversity protection, and soil fertility andrestoration ;

       elaboration o f participatory management schemes for targeted ecosystemsthat include measures to
       enhancethe integntyo fkey protected areas inpriority GEF zones ;

       training and pilot programs to build capacity and know-how, particuarly among riparian
       communities inpriority interventionareas ;

       efforts to create a conducive enabling environment for community-based ecosystem management,
       including improvements to the regulatory andlegislative framework ;

       technical and material support to improve the environmental monitoring and enforcement capacity
       of local actors, including decentralized agents o f the Ministryof Environment andWater ;

       implementation o f a monitoring and evaluation system and integration o f land degradation and
       biodiversity protectionindicators into the Chadian rural sector monitoring scheme.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
   Very specific key performance indicators for the project's global biodiversity protection (e.g., level o f
   threat o f endangered species reduced by at least one category) and sustainable land management
   objectives (e.g. number o f hectaresunder active reforestation or sustainable forest management) will be
   developed and tailored for each o f the GEF priority zones. These site-specific key indicators will
   include the following broad parameters: (i) the number of hectares o f land protected from
   environmental threats (e.g., deforestation, soil degradation, brushfires); (ii)changes inthe populations
   of, or level o f threat posed to, targeted species o f global importance, and (iii)
                                                                                    evidence o f improved or
   renewed ecosystem health (e.g., water quality, soil fertility, vegetative cover). Progress toward the
   project development objective will be also measured by more process-oriented key performance
   indicators: percentage of targeted communities integrating IEM principles and activities into local
   development plans (LDPs); number o f types o f different ecosystems under effective, participatory
   management; number o f communities and intra-community associations capacitated to manage their
   ecosystems; percentage o f LDPs in targeted areas that actively promote conservation o f globally
   significant biodiversity or joint management of protected areas; rate o f incremental adoption of
   sustainable agncultural techniques intargeted areas. More detailed indicators are provided inAnnex 1.

   Inaddition, the followingindicators willbeusedas triggers for the secondphase :

   0   At leastthreeecosystemmanagementschemes havebeenconceived ;

   0   At least 40% of the subprojects approved for GEF incremental financing have received their first
       tranche o f financing ;



                                                      - 3 -

        At least 10% of the Local Development Plans (LDPs) in the targeted priority zones contain
        subprojects eligble for GEF grant co-financing ;

        At least 2 legal texts are adopted, signed and made publicly available: the application of Law 14
        uponwhich project success depends, andthe Law 16 on forestry, fauna and fishing ;

        The feasibility study for the National Observatory for Natural Resources Monitoring has been
        completed and approved ;

        Well-definedparameters andmethodologies for integrating soil degradation andbiologcal diversity
        into the monitoring and evaluation system of the PIDR are inplace.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 26938-CD          Date of latest CAS discussion: December 11,2003

    The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Boardon December 11, 2003,
    aims to help Chad make the best possible developmental use o f its new oil revenues (and public
    resources more broadly) notably by (i)    strengthening governance, including institutional arrangements
    for public resourcemanagementand service delivery; and (ii)    enhancing non-oil economic opportunities
    while reducing sources of vulnerability, notably for the poor. The PROADEL and the proposed
    Community Based Ecosystem Management Project squarely supports the Bank's CAS, which among
    other things emphasizes reducing poverty through more sustainable natural resource management and
    agricultural production. The project would support the two CAS pillars by expanding opportunities for
    the poor, empowering communities to formulate their needs and to better manage their lands and
    environments. Through this project, the Bank seeks to contribute to the following result: at least 50
    subprojects benefiting communities and addressing natural resources management issues are
    implementedbasedon their approved Local Development Plans. Moreover, the project will contribute
    to the decentralization process, animportant element o f the first pillar o f the CAS.

la. Global Operational strategyprogram objective addressed by the project:
    The project's global environmental objective is to enable local communities to combat desertification
    and rehabilitate degraded lands and to preserve globally-significant biodwersity. As global
    environmental benefits in multiple focal areas are expected to be generated in some o f the country's
    most fragile ecosystems-particularly      in the area of biodiversity conservation and sustainable land
    management-the      project's global operational strategy is aligned to support the aims and targets o f
    GEF's OP Objective #12, and its successful implementation will bolster GEF's overarching priorities
    as outlined inthe Strategic Business Plan. Specifically, the project will contribute to OP#12 Strategic
    Priorities by increasing institutional andlocal capacity to implement integrated ecosystemmanagement,
    and through community-based investments based on stakeholder participation and needs that can
    deliver both domestic and global environmental benefits. Inpromoting (or introducing, inmany cases)
    holistic approaches to environmental management, the project will also contribute to GEF strategic
    priorities under the biodiversity focal area, stabilizing fragile ecosystems and catalyzing community
    participation in the management and monitoring of biodiversity in indigenous areas. The integrated
    ecosystemmanagement approach aims to reach a balance inthe interlinked objectives of: conservation;
    sustainable use; andthe fair andequitable sharing o f the benefits arisingout o f the utilization o f natural
    resources. In t h s way, the project will advance the Government o f Chad's commitments under a



                                                      - 4 -

   number o f international environmental conventions, particularly the UN Convention on Biologxal
   Diversity (UNCBD), the UN Convention on Desertification (UNCCD), and the UN Framework
   Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

   Main sector issues
   Issue 1: F r a ~ l ecosystemsand loss o fbiodiversitv. Lying at the convergenceo f four major continental
                      e
   ecological zones (ie., the West African Sahara, the Sahel, the Sudanian zone, and the Central African
   Forest), Chad's ecosystems are globally significant. They serve as permanent habitats, safe migration
   harbors, and assimilation zones for a multitude o f unique, threatened species from across the Afncan
   Continent (e.g., large mammals and reptiles, migratory birds, fish, and unique desert, savanna, and
   forest vegetation formations). Likewise, the Logone-Chari river system emptying into Lake Chad i s a
   watercourse o f great global and regional importance. Most o f Chad's critical ecosystems are either not
   formally protected, or ineffectively protected due to a lack o f resources; moreover, whle environmental
   protection is a national priority, for much o f the population, meeting basic needs is a more urgent
   priority. As a result, these unique ecosystems are at risk of serious and irreversible degradation,
   stemming from poor management of water resources, the progressive depletion and decliningfertility of
   apcultural soils, the extensification o f apcultural production, and the encroachment o f human
   settlements on natural habitats. For example, the Lake Chad Basin, which supports a mosaic o f
   societies and cultures to sustain agricultural and pastoral activities, has been under markedpressure
   from desertification and environmental degradation accelerated by demand for land and water. Other
   rivers, lakes, and oases provide key habitats for numerous species, many of whch are endemic and
   endangered. According to the UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Center, 6 animal species are
   currently critically endangered (including the addax, the northem white rhinoceros and the black
   rhinoceros), 6 are endangered(including the Addra and Rhim gazelle, the giant otter, the saker falcon,
   the African wild dog, and the elephant) and 16 are vulnerable, whle 1i s now extinct in the wild (the
   Sahara oryx). In the Saharan zone, natural migrations o f addax and oryx have been disturbed by
   poaching and the effects o f drought. In the Sahelian zone, elephants, ostriches and certain waterfowl
   species have almost disappeareddue to the loss of vegetation intemporary streams and overgrazing by
   small ruminants. In the Sudano-Sahelian zone, feline populations (lions and panthers) and large
   antelopes (Derby Elands) are disappearing due to increased human pressure on their habitat. In the
   Sudanian zone, where buffalos, giraffes and rhinoceros are threatened, unique vegetal associations
   combining woody species, shrubs and grasses are found in great variety, but are threatened by
   expanding agricultural activity. In addition, poor management of fish resources has led to the
   near-disappearance o f certain fish species (eels, capitaines, etc.) due to overexploitation and water
   pollution.

   Issue 2: Desertification, land degradation, and land-use conflicts.      Desertification, soil degradation,
   deforestation and decline in the quantity and quality o f water resources are phenomenon that have
   worsened in Chad over the last thirty years. The seriousness o f these threats is mounting and their
   socioeconomic effects are becoming increasingly evident.          Although Chad signed and ratified the
   UNCCD and has elaborated an accompanying National Action Plan (NAP) partially integrated into
   key rural development strategies, financing, capacity, and coordination barriers have checked a scale
   up in the implementation o f activities that could generate a measurable reversal in land degradation
   trends. Land-use conflicts betweenpastoral andagricultural activities have intensified, contributing to
   migration pressures and undermining social cohesion. Production capital is threatened and in some
   cases already compromised by land degradation and soil erosion, deforestation, and desertification,
   subjecting the population in several areas to precarious economic conditions and sometimes forcing


                                                    - 5 -

them to migrate. The perpetuation of open-access land-use policies threatens the integrity and
sustainability o f Chad's natural assets, particularly its forests, woodlots, and pasturelands. Brushfires,
an unsystematic distribution o f water points, and lack of respect for existing grazing corridors are
threatening biodiversity inthe pasturelands. With population growth and migration (particularly in the
Sudanian zone), natural vegetation in wetlands, prairies, and woodlands are being systematically
cleared for food production. Demographic pressures and the growing pains o f economic development
are creating a vicious cycle o f mounting ecological damage and low rural productivity. To meet basic
human energy needs, almost the entire population depends upon the unsustainable consumption of
wood fuel and charcoal. And the rural production o f firewood and charcoal contributes little to the
communities where the resources are located, because a supportive regulatory framework and local
management structures are lacking. As a result, "rings" o f desertification and deforestation have
developed around major population centers (e.g., N'Djamena, Moundou, Ati, Abtcht, and Bongor);
moreover, these practices add to Chad's net greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the fertility and
carbon storage capacity o f its soils. These pattems are reinforcing poverty and curbing the future
economic growth potentialof the country, particularly inthe ruralsector.

Issue 3: Weak organization of rural communities and limitedinvolvement in decisions concemine:their
development. The range of environmental challenges impeding Chad's sustainable economic
development are intimately connected to weak local govemance structures, particularly in the domain
o f natural resources management. While Chad's development priorities emphasize the imperative to
ensure the long-term health and productivity o f its natural resourcebase, and the Government o f Chad
supports policies that integrate natural resource management into decentralized structures and plans,
the processof decentralization is still inits early stages. Only a few projects have set up informallocal
development decision bodies, but they remain in the pilot stage and depend on donors for financial
support. A weak framework for decentralized environmental govemance has contributed to a rise in
conflict over land use, particularly between demand for agricultural activities and existing wildlife and
protected areas. Likewise, the Chadian legal framework regarding environmental management
discourages participatory environmental management schemes and could benefit from some additions
or modifications, especially those pertainingto landtenure andsecurity.

Issue 4: Weak local capacities. and limited technical and environmental knowledge base. National
capacity to manage natural resources and ecosystems, particularly protected areas and their buffer
zones, i s very limited.One o f the principal constraints to the protectiono f Chadian ecosystems includes
weak capacity for monitoring and enforcement of the protection of protected areas, including lack of
equipment o f personnel of the Ministry o f Environment and Water (MEW). Fewer than 500 agents in
the Ministry o f Environment and Water are charged with environmental andor water management in
the entire country, and budgetary constraints are severe. Training decentralized agents o f the MEW and
traditional authorities in the management of ecosystems is minimal, and there are few means to
undertake surveys and inventories o f indigenous species and other natural assets. While climatic and
demographc factors are among the root causes o f desertification and biodiversity loss, lack o f
appropriate natural resources management skills confounds the situation. Available techmques for
reducing soil erosion, improving soil fertility, and increasing woody biomass could be used widely
given adequate support for capacity building. Such techniques would also have a positive impact on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting carbon sequestration. Exacerbating this is the
limited informationbasis for long-term environmental monitoring and decision-making, particularly in
the rural space. Only basic data on protected areas is available, while wildlife censuses in many areas
are often more than 25 years old. N o ongoing scientific observation o f desertification is takmg place,
and most decisions and interventions are made on limitedlocal and oftenbiased mformation, leading to
poor resource rationalization.


                                                  - 6 -

Additional information regarding the main challenges and barriers to promoting decentralized natural
resourcesmanagementand community-based IEMis provided inAnnex 4 (Incremental Cost Analysis).


 Government'sstrategy


The Poverty Reduction Strategy. With 80% o f the population living on less than $1a day, Chad is one
o f the poorest countries inthe world. Poverty is most prevalent inrural areas, where about 80% o f the
population resides; rural areas must be the primary target o f interventions aimed at reducing poverty
andincreasing growth. The Government of Chadadoptedits Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP)
in June 2003. The GEF project is designed to support the implementation of the PRSP, whose five
axes touch upon many o f its core objectives, including promoting good governance and the restoration
and conservation of fragile ecosystems.The project will advance participation o frural communities in
local development and the establishment of linkages between decentralization and ecosystem
management, whch is a strategic objective o fthe PRSP.

Rural Develoument Strategy. The Government's rural development strategy was presentedto donors at
the Geneva IV Sectoral Consultation on Rural Development in June 1999. Its objective is to increase
production in a sustainable way that preserves the environment while reinforcing institutional and
human capacities. The key elements o f the rural development strategy are: (i)   increasing agricultural
productivity in a sustainable manner; (ii)  supporting development o f competitive suply chains; (iii)
promoting sustainable management and development o f natural resources; (iv) improving promoting
the rural sector; (v) and improving the efficiency of the public sertor. Concerning the promotion of
natural resources and rural productivity, the strategy emphasizes the following aspects: (i)the
consultation and consensus-building with rural communities; (ii) promotion o f better soil and water
                                                                  the
management; (iii)  the participatory management o f the rural space, conservation o f biodiversity, and
prevention o f desertification and deforestation under an integrated ecosystem management approach;
and (iv) the integration of priority national actions and strateges under major international
environmental conventions inlocal andregional development plans.

National EnvironmentalAction Plan NEAP). The NEAP, elaborated with the assistanceo f UNDP and
the World Bank, defines the Government o f Chad's broad strategic principles and establishes its
long-term priorities for environmental protection. The NEAP seeks to establish a collaborative
framework for the implementation o f activities by the Government, international partners, andNGOs,
while raising awareness and increasing the participation of all stakeholders in sustainable natural
resourceutilization. Through a comprehensive analysis o f the state o f the environment inall domains,
Chad's NEAP advocates several measures to enhance the management o f the country's fragle
ecosystems. The NEAP is expected to be executed on the ground through local village, cantonal and
departmental development plans, taking into account local needs through cross-sectoral planning.
Indeed, a number of the priorities covered under the NEAP would be addressedinthe implementation
of the GEF Community-Based Ecosystem Management project and selected aspects o f the baseline
projects under the PIDR. The NEAP andrelevant associatedlegslationwill soonbe adopted as official
government policy.




                                                - 7 -

National Biodiversiw Protection Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP). The Government o f Chad ratified
the UNCBD in 1994, and under the direction o f the High National Committee on the Environment
subsequently developed a National Biodiveristy Protection Strategy and associated Biodiversity
Strategic Action Plan (BSAP). The overall thrust o f these are to ensure for the sustainable exploitation
of biodiversity in Chad, taking into account the development aspirations o f the population and
reconciling the objectives of local economic development with those of biochversity conservation. The
BSAP highlights the urgent need to develop and apply innovative and holistic approaches toward the
management o f environmental resources, attitudes, behaviors and initiatives. Its five core objectives are
to: (i)improve knowledge and monitoring o f biological diversity; (ii)inventory ecosystems and
threatened species andreduce criminal acts (inparticular bushfires) inand around protected areas; (iii)
increaseuse o f substitution resources, including consumption o f wood energy; (iv) adopt techniques for
a more sustainable exploitation o f agnculture, fisheries, and forests in order to conserve biodiversity;
and (v) promote a more equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity exploitation and promotion of
collective responsibility and community-based actions to promote biodiversity conservation.

National Action Plan Against Desertification (NAP).The Government o f Chad signed the UNCCD in
September 1997 and adopted its National Action Plan (NAP) to combat desertification (Plan d'Action
National de Lutte Contre la DCsertification) in September 2002. The NAP aims to safeguard Chad's
most important and threatened ecosystems, while improvingnational policies and capacity to preserve
the production potential of land and water and to mitigate the effects of drought. The NAP has four
overarching objectives: (i)to protect, restore and develop Chad's productive potential to achieve
sustainable agriculture and livestock production, protected and enhanced fisheries, and to promote
human habitat planning in a manner respectful o f the environment; (ii)to protect and safeguard
important and threatened ecosystems, inparticular, Lake Chad, Lake Fitri, the Ouadis, the oasis and
the koro lands ; (iii) buildhuman capacities and adapt legal and institutional frameworks to combat
                      to
desertification, particularly among rural populations, NGOs, andpublic agencies ;(iv) to manage risks
and uncertainties exacerbating the fragility of ecosystems and human-induced drivers o f land
degradation. A National Coordination Committee and focal point attached to the Cabinet o f the MEE
(established by decree N o 0041MET/DG/95) ensures the coordination, implementation and follow-up
of urgent actions. Regional and local committees have also begun to formulate regional action plans.
Through the GEF project, national and regional NAP priorities will be better integrated into local
development plans inpriority areas.

Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. Under the Ramsar Convention, which the Government o f Chad
ratified in 1990, three wetlands whose ecologxal services are o f global significance and national
importance were identified in the country: the Chadian part o f the Lake Chad, the Logone River flood
plains, and Mayo-Kebbi watershed basin. With the assistance o f WWF, an inventory o f these areas
was carried out in 2000. As a Party to the Convention, the Government o f Chad is obliged to support
the conservation and the rational use of these wetland areas, some of which are contained within the
GEF project's priority interventionzones.




                                                 - 8 -

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
   Activities under the project would address the main issues describedinB.2, as follows:

   Issue 1:Fragile ecosvstems and loss o fbiodiversity. The natural resource management practices o fthe
   communities participating in the PROADEL and other decentralized development programs under the
   PIDR have the potential to positively or negatively impact some o f the country's most environmentally
   fragile areas. The project will support investments and capacity-building activities that will improve the
   conservation of key ecosystems and the implementation of community-based integrated ecosystem
   management plans that address biodiversity conservation and land degradation (e.g., community
   forestry, pilot pastoral projects, soil erosion management, and fertility enhancement techniques).
   Through activities geared towards increasing the fertility and management o f agncultural and pastoral
   lands, the project will complement baseline poverty-reduction and vulnerability-reducing activities, a
   root cause of ecosystem deterioration. The project would also support the planning, financing, and
   implementation of intercommunity, environmental management schemes, such as jointly-managed
   protected areas andwatershedmanagementplans.

   Issue 2: Desertification, land degradation. and land-use conflicts. Capacity buildingand investments in
   disseminating improved land management technologies and practices will enhance soil fertility, reduce
   erosion and water run-off, improve carbon retention in soils, and improve landscape planning and
   management. Targeted research in the project preparation phase has identified the most appropriate,
   economically viable sustainable land management interventions in each priority intervention zone. In
   the area of Mondou, the secondlargest city, sustainable woodfhel management andcommerce through
   the introduction of user fees/taxes will be promoted, as well as alternative energy carriers and more
   efficient cook stoves. Landtenure issues andlegislationwould receive special attention inthe design of
   intercommunity ecosystemmanagementschemes.

   Issue 3: Weak organization of rural communities and limited involvement indecisions concerning their
   development. Currently, only limited funding mechanisms exist to support natural resource
   management and integrated ecosystem management processes at local levels and few micro-finance
   programs have ever focused on environmental issues. The project would finance physical,
   socioeconomic and productive investments identified and managed by local communities to improve
   their local ecosystems, while buildingthe managerial andplanningcapability o f those communities and
   increasing transparency and accountability at the local level. The involvement o f women and other
   underprivilegedgroups (youth, transhumant herders) intheir community's development planningwould
   receive particular     attention.  Project activities   will address sustainability       constraints by
   "institutionalizing" decentralized development funding mechanisms for environmental management
   activities, including micro-investments eligible for support under fhture oil revenue-sharing plans. In
   addition, the project would support reforms to the legislative and regulatory framework to promote the
   transfer o f natural resource management to communities and strengthening the capacity o f
   decentralized technicians responsible for environmental protection to work with communities on joint
   conservation activities. The project would also assist recognized decentralized entities to adopt sound
   economic and fiscal frameworks to sustain the protection and restoration o f fragile ecosystems.




                                                    - 9 -

   Issue 4: Weak local capacities, and limited techmcal and environmental knowledae base. A unique
   training strategy has been developed to involve communities and marginalized groups in natural
   resource managementandbiodiversity conservation, andto ensurethat local actors have the capacity to
   contribute to the design o f ecosystemmanagement planningand implementation. At the national level,
   the project would establish an environmental information management system and adopt a regulatory
   and fiscal framework to encourage protection and restoration of natural resources. The project would
   expand the scope and national coverage o f existing environmental management information systems,
   promote new tools for monitoring and evaluating the ecosystem trends (i.e. national Geographic
   Information System panel database). Inaddition, support will be provided to integrate key parameters
   onbiodiversity conservation and land managementinto the Rural Development MonitoringSystem.

   Key strategic choices made duringproject preparation and design were to:

   Mainstream IEM into participatory, decentralized development planning;by linluna GEF incremental
   activities to PROADEL. The GEF project has been designed to complement and support the
   Government's Rural Development Support Program (PIDR), by overlapping IEM approaches into
   community-based development planning. Ths strategy will create synergies with, and is fully
   consistent with the implementation strategies of, Chad's NEAP and other key environmental policies
   relating to biodiversity conservation and ecosystem management. A participatory approach toward
   project preparation and implementation will demand decentralized powers and resources at the lowest
   level o f intervention. The core thrust o f GEF activities run in parallel to all the four components of
   PROADEL: (i)     co-financing integrated ecosystem management sub-projects, mainly in GEF `priority
   zones' and excluding any projects on the `negative list'; (ii)  integration o f IEM into local planning
   exercises and capacity building in natural resources and ecosystem management in targeted
   communities; (iii)assessment and potential modifications of the regulatory framework to promote
   community-based IEMandjoint managementof protected areas; and (iv) M&E of ecosystemtrends, in
   particularly biodiversity loss and land degradation, inthe context o f the rural development monitoring
   system.

   Maintain appropriate balance between a `top-down' and `bottom-up' approach toward interventions.
   Local development plans formulated by communities and accompanying capacity buildingwill be the
   project`s primary vehicles to balance tensions between `top down' and `bottom up' approaches to
   ecosystemmanagement. Through sensitization programs andparticipatory diagnosis andmonitoring o f
   local ecosystems, communities will have input into the design o f scientific studies and potential legal
   and regulatory reforms undertaken at more `top down' levels. In addition, conventions or charters
   established among riparian communities will ensure that communities are fully vested and can
   coordinate in the identification and implementation of eligible subprojects at both the community and
   communal levels.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):

   The project has four components: (i)    Financial support for community-based ecosystem management
   subprojects, (ii)capacity building for integrated ecosystem management, (iii) for an enabling
                                                                                      support
   environment for community-based ecosystem management, and (iv) management and monitoring
   support.




                                                  -10-

Component 1: Financial supportfor community-based ecosystem managementsubprojects

The GEF project will co-finance subprojects to support community-based ecosystempreservation and
natural resouce management activities within the GEF Priority Zones. Eligibility will be restricted to
activities that are requestedby communities and fit into their LocalDevelopment Plans (preparedunder
the baseline) and the ecosystem management schemes (prepared under Component 2). Some of the
activites likely to be eligible include, inter alia: the reforestation and rehabilitation o f gallery forests;
development o f grazing corridors; community co-management of protected areas; introduction of
ago-forestry techniques; development o f local drought management plans and bushfire awareness and
control programs; and pilots to demonstrate or disseminate more sustainable, alternative energy
technologies and practices, such as more efficient cooking stoves. To avoid capture o f resources by
elites, the project would ensure that every process (subproject identification, selection, and
implementation) is participatory and management o f resources is transparent. To ensure sustainability
o f investments, beneficiary contributions would be mandatory, with local maintenanceresponsibility.

Component2: Capacity buildingfor integrated ecosystemmanagement

Subcomponent 2.1:IntegratedEcosystem Management Schemes

The GEF grant will support collaboration between key stakeholders to pursue integrated ecosystem
managementpriorities at larger scales and to prepare sustainable andlong-term ecosystemmanagement
schemes in GEF priority zones, through the provision o f technical and organizational assistance. This
will include (i) charters or conventions between ripariancommunities that codify their intent to
                 binding
cooperate and co-manage fragile ecosystems in partnership with local government, traditional local
authorities, and decentralized agents o f the MEW, and (ii)    identifyingbeneficial subprojects that could
be implemented at the community level.

Subcomponent 2.2: Training of actors

The project will support training activities to the benefit of the communities and technical service
agencies on ecosystem management. Specific training will be elaborated, such that the
conceptualization o f subprojects (i.e. those aimed at reducing soil erosion, maintaining forest cover,
promoting local tourism) can address biodiversity conservation andbroader ecosystem challenges, such
as watershed management. The project would disseminate an Integrated Ecosystem Management
Guideline Document as a capacity building tool for consolidating approaches in local development
planning.

Component3: Supportfor an enabling environmentfor community-basedecosystemmanagement

Subcomponent 3.1: Improvement o f the legal andregulatory framework

This would consist of analytical support to establish a sound legal and regulatory framework for
community participation inenvironmental management andjoint managemento fprotected areas. Some
o f the more ugent priorities are to support the application o f the Law 16 on Forestry, Fauna and
Fishing, its extension on the taxation of forest resources to the other cities o f the country, and the
finalization o f the decrees o f Law 14/98. The project will also assist in the validation, awareness
raising, and support for campaigns to advocate for these reformsby andamong communities.




                                                  - 11 -

Subcomponent 3.2: Institutional support

Support would be extended to better identify capacity needs and fiscal reforms necessaryto implement
the legal and regulatory reforms advanced in subcomponent 3.1, particularly among the relevant line
ministries. As with subcomponent 3.1, advocacy campaigns to effect more decentralized in
environmental governance and the validation by communities o f selected reform measures would be
supported on a demand-driven basis. Inaddition, institutional andtechcal capacities o f MEW would
be strengthenedunder this sub-component, to improve skills, monitoringandenforcement powers.

Subcomponent 3.3 : Sustainablefinancing

This subcomponent will support the promotion o f partnerships between communities and external
sources of financing outside o f the GEF to sustain ecosystem management schemes. The project will
prioritize (i) support to the Government for the definition and implementation o f a National Fund
             the
for the Environnment, and (ii) support for the development o f a framework for community
                                   the
parnterships that could assist communities to identify long-term co-financingof ecosystemmanagement
activities, enhance cooperation with international foundations and NGOs, manage their legal and
financial interests vis a vis potential international partners and private companies, and design pilot
projects eligible for international investment under emergmg environmental market schemes, such as
carbon finance.

Component4: Management and monitoring support

Subcomponent4.1: Support to proiect manapement

Day-to-day management o f project activities would be assured by the PMU o f the PROADEL and
additional staff would be recruited by the Ministry o f Land Management, Urbanism, and Habitat: a
GEF Specialist, an assistant for monitoringand evaluation, andanGEFaccountant.

Subcomponent4.2: Support to proiect monitoring andevaluation

Ths subcomponent will finance the monitoring and evaluation of the project's impacts as well as the
outcomes of its investments incommunity basedecosystemmanagementsubprojects.

Subcomuonent4.3: Monitoringo f ecosystemmanagementat the national level

The project will strengthen the monitoring and evaluation system of ecosystem management at the
national level, through inter alia supporting a feasibility study for the establishment o f a National
Observatory o fNaturalResources.




                                                 - 1 2 -

   The table below shows the allocation of the grant proceeds among project component. These
   allocations do not include the US$ 23 million of the IDA Grant to which this GEF project is
   partially blended.

                                                    Indicative
        Component                                     costs     %of
                                                     (USSM)     Total
                                                                  _i
Financialsupport for communitybased ecosystem           2.70      32.1                          2.50     41.7
managementsubprojects
Capacitybuilding for integratedecosystem                                                        1.60     26.7
management                                                                        I
Support for an enablingenvironmentfor                                                           0.70      11.7
                                                        ~~


community-based ecosystemmanagement
Management andmonitoring support                        2.12                                    1.20     20.0
                              Total Project Costs                100.0                          6.00    100.0
                        Total FinancingRequired                  100.0                          6.00    100.0


2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
   As the underlyingbasis for economic growth inChad continues to improve with the transition to the oil
    era, it is critical that conservation and sound natural resource use frameworks are more effectively
   integrated into development planning, thereby precluding irreversible environmental damage and to
    sustain the natural capital basis upon which the country's rural population depends. Toward this end,
    the Government of Chad is bolstering its laws and regulations pertaining to both local environmental
    management and national and sub-regional protection o f critical ecosystems. At the same time, the
    Government has been assistedby the Bank and other donors in undertaking an ambitious program o f
    decentralization.

    The GEF project would accompany and support both the decentralization and the environmental
   protection agendas. The project will help to secure a sound regulatory framework for decentralized
    environmental govemance as compelled by the Chadian Constitution, and the integration of natural
    resource management with rural development policies andplanningprocesses. Specifically, the project
    aims to implement interventions through decentralized development plans and subprojects conceived
    under the framework of the PIDR.The project will support the review of the existing legal framework
    for decentralized environmental govemance, and promote the elaboration o f decrees o f application o f
    National Law No. 14 on Environmental Protection, including regulations pertaining to exploitation and
    conservation o f forests, wildlife and fisheries. Specifically the project will also support t h s policy
    reform through:

   0    promulgating laws transferring some naturalresource management prerogatives to users;

   0     implementing the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and associated legislation and
         reforms at the community level;

   0     strengthening the institutional capacity of agencies responsible for naturalresource management;

   0     establishing an environmental information system; and

   0     consolidating community plans for improving household energy management in connection with


                                                     -13-

        biodlversity conservation initiatives,

3. Benefitsand target population:
   The primary target populationof the GEF project is the same as those of the baseline projects, namely
   rural communities. Communities are defined as people living in one or several villages, districts,
   ferricks, or encampments, sharing use o f the space and surrounding natural resources. Service
   providers would be contracted to support communities in participatory assessments and Local
   Development Plan preparation and implementation. Marginalized groups, including women,
   transhumant herders, and other underprivileged groups would be actively targeted to ensure that they:
   (i) theirshareofbenefitsfromprojectactivitiesand(ii) abletoeffectivelyparticipatein
      receive                                                          are
   decisions affecting the program and the development o f their community. Other beneficiaries be
   strengthened by the project would be decentralized authorities, non-govemmental organizations
   (NGOs), and service providers.

   For strategic reasons and resource limitations, integrated ecosystem management activities will be
   prioritized in a limitednumber o f GEF priority zones inthe first phase. These zones were selected in
   partnership with Chadian stakeholders and development partners at appaisal from among a longer
   shortlist, basedupon an evaluation o f each site against pre-defined criteria, including:

   0    Coverage o f major environmental challenges and root causes o f unsustainable development, and
        diversification o fmajor ecological zones inthe country;

   0    Presence o f globally significant biodiversity assets andvulnerability o f local ecosystems (including
        evidence of extensive landdegradation);

   0    Equitable geographcal distribution of project activities and likely diversity o f various types of
        eligible subprojects;

   0    Assurance that GEF activities supplementand do not duplicate efforts of other projects;

        Ready ability to adopt a community-based approach;

   0    Community expressionorjustification o f immediate needs;

   0    Ability to quickly acheve replicable andcost-effective scale-up o fresults onthe ground.

   The GEF priority intervention zones are: Lac Weye and the Moundou Charcoal Supply Basin;
   Binder-LCrC Wildlife Reserve and Lac LCrC; Bahr el Gazal; the Ouaddai-Biltine Watershed System;
   andthe Mandelia Fauna Reserve (see additional details on these sites below). These areas encompass
   significant protected areas and peripheral buffer zones that harbor globally significant environmental
   assets andhighlythreatenedspecies, such as the manatee, addax, orxy, andDerby eland.

   Sudanian Zone/Southwestem Chad-Binder-LCrCWildlife Reserveand Lac LCrC

   Located in the PRODALKA intervention zone, this area in the Southwestem comer bordering
   Cameroon envelopes the Binder-LCrCWildlife Reserve in which Lac LCrC and Lac TrenC are situated,
   as well as other protected areas, including the Yamba-Bert6 Forest Reserve. Inaddition, a network o f
   small lakes, swamps, and flood plains along the Kebbi and Kabia Rivers serve as important buffer



                                                     - 1 4 -

zones against encroaching desertification. Withinthe two lakes andthe Binder-Ltrt Wildlife Reserve, a
diverse number o f species can be found, including: crocodile, hippopotamus, elephant, antelope, eland,
red hartebeest, rare turtles, warthog, lion, ostrich, gazelle, giraffe, buffalo, and panther. Perhaps the
most threatened species is the manatee, which has been spotted in the two lakes. While the area has
been subject to some limited ecosystem management planning and interventions under the previous
German Cooperation-financed project PCGRN (Projet de Conservation et de Gestion des Ressources
naturelles duns Mayo-Kebbi Ouest), the ecosystems in the area remain highly fragile, threatened by
erosion and siltation and subject to mounting ecological pressure from the expansion o f agricultural
and other subsistence activities, including over-grazing, poaching, and unregulated brick and charcoal
production. An integrated watershed management approach, llnking the two environmental objectives
o f land degradation and biodiversity protection, would appear to be able to ameliorate the lake
ecosystem. The site already profits from the existence o f Local Authorities Decision Committees
established under PCGRN or PRODALKA to ensure stock management o f piscicultural species, but
these have not yet undertaken any concerted activity for the protection o f the water resources or the
promotion of integrated watershed management. Among the community-based ecosystemmanagement
activities that could be anticipated in this zone include: (i)stabilization o f the banks of the two lakes
and possibly along the Mayo-Kebbi Rwer tributary, efforts to control siltation carried from as far as
the Gauthiot Falls, and measures to combat soil erosion related to agricultural activities; (ii)
agroforestry, afforestation, and sustainable charcoal production activities; (iii)techcal training and
provision o f material equipment to intensify monitoring against fish overexploitationandpoaching; (iv)
actions to support ecotourism, preparation o f a tourist map depicting localbiologicaldiversity, training
o f guides and wildlife guardians; (v) sensitizing populations to avoid destruction o f habitats o f wild
fauna, such as elephants; (vi) redefinition o f the system o f monitoring and control over resource
exploitation; (vii) installationo fregulationsystems andtechnology to avoid pollutiono f the lakes.

SudanianZoneISouthwestem Chad-Lac Weve andMoundou Charcoal Suuulv Basin

Located in the intervention zone o f PROADEL in the vicinity o f Moundou, Lac Weye is strongly
threatened by pollution and land pressures. Given its proximity to the city o f Mondou, its banks are
eroded and its shores are being rapidly deforested to supply wood fuel to the city. Forest cover i s
declining and indigenous species are threatened (Derby eland, giraffe, buffalo, hippopotamus, tortoise,
monkey, khaya). Despite being classified as a forest, biomass species have not been inventoried, and
the area has been reduced to a state of gallery forest and scatteredthicket as a result of bushfres and
clearing by the local population. Ago-fishermen and pisciculturists are already organized and have
profited from pilot projects in fisheries management. GEF activities would develop a concerted
integrated ecosystem management scheme to conserve biodiversity whle improving water and soil
management, as well as better rationalizing domestic energy production and consumption, such as
putting in place sustainable forest management plans. Community forest management, agroforestry,
and the introduction o f more sustainable agricultural and charcoal production techniques could bring a
variety o f local benefits inthis zone.




                                                 - 15-

Sahelo-Sudanian ZonelWestem Chad-Mandelia FaunaReserve

The Mandelia Fauna Reserve of 138,000 ha in the periphery o f NdjamCna was originally created to
protect the elephant populations. However, over time, the Reserve has been increasingly subject to
humanoccupation and cattle migrations, which has challenged its very integrity. The elephants have
taken refuge in a frontier park in Cameroon, but annually return and face the hostility o f the local
populations. The Reserve does not benefit from any particularly strong protection measures, but the
Rural Development Support Project (PADER) has carried out some mapping studies in the area. A
local association is worlung to protect the forest and some private parties are interested inpromoting
the site for recreational purposes and eco-tourism.

Sahelian ZoneiNorthem Chad-Bahr El Gazal

PROADEL envisages intervening for its t h d year in this zone, whose dryland ecosystems are mainly
degraded by concentration of transhumant cattle. Pastoral management pilots have been reasonably
successful in this area in the past, but have yet to be scaled-up. Several potential sites exist for
rehabilitation o f salt curing, restoration o f degraded pasture zones in the south o f Moussoro, or the
stabilization o f the dunes close to Chaddra. Collaborations are also envisioned with local NGOs
developing a new inter-community approachfor the environmental protectiono f the ouaddis.

SahelianZoneEastem Chad- Ouaddai-Biltine Watershed System

Located inthe PRODABO interventionarea inthe far eastem area o f the Sahel, the ouadis are home to
most o f the human settlements in the region and currently under pressure from an increased influx o f
refugees from the Darfur region o f the Sudan. A system o f intersecting watersheds can be regarded as
the veritable life veins of these settlements. The GEFpriority zone will encompassthe Batha Riverand
flood plains, augmented during the rainy season by the Ouadi Hamrah and Ouadi Saria. This
watercourse winds through the Cantons of Abker, Korio, and Kognere, eventually flowing toward Lake
Fitri. In the dry season, the watershed is threatened by its use as a corridor for transhumant
pastoralists, a land transport artery for agricultural products, and as a settlement area for refugees.
These activities are intensifyingthe degradation o f river banksand the siltation o f the river bed. Gallery
forests have been cleared to make room for agriculturalproduction, with an average exploitationperiod
of plots o f just two years, as well as for wood fuels. Likewise, unique biomass species such as the
Seyal Acacia have been pruned for fodder. Other threatened biodiversity include warthogs, desert
rodents, gazelles, andsavannababoon. The intervention area is also inthe proximity of a proposednew
protected area, the Goz-Beida Forest.




                                                  -16-

Table 1: TentativePriorityGEFInterventionZones andKey EnvironmentalThreatsto be
Addressed

             Ley environmental        ;EF Priority         epartmentsin   iepartmentsin  Departments
             hreats                   nterventionZones    IEFPriorityZones :EF Priority   nGEF
                                                          nder PROADEL     ones under    PriorityZones
                                                                           RODABO        under
                                                                                         PRODALKA


              0 Weak protected          Mandelia Fauna     0BarhSignaka
                areas management        Reserve            0Loug-Chari
                systems.

              0 Water management

              0 Soil erosion inhilly
                areas.
              0 Soil infertility.      0Lac    Weye    an  0Lac Weye                      0MayoDallah
                                        MoundouCharcoal.                                  0Lac Ltre

              0  Richbiodiversity                                                         0Kabia
                 and critical habitats  Supply Basin

                 not well protected.   0Binder-Led
                                        Wildlife Reserve
              0  Landandforest
                 clearing and marsh     andLac Lere

                 draining.


              0  Water managemenl
                 and pollution
                 control.
              0  Encroaching           0 BahrElGazal       0 BahrElGazal   0 Ouara
                 desertification.                                          0 Assoungha
                                       0 Ouaddai-Biltine                   0 DjoufAl-Ahmi
              0  Oryxandaddax                                              0 Biltine
                 specieshighly         0 Watershed Systerr
                 threatened.

              0  Droughts, soil
                 erosion,
                 deforestation, and
                 bushfires




                                                    - 17 -

   Expected benefits

   Expectedbenefits of the project are:

    Strengthened local capacity for integrated ecosystemmanagement:

    (i) toplan,implement,andmonitorLocalDevelopmentPlansandassociatedIEMandnatural
       Ability
    resourcemanagement subprojects;

    (ii) replicablelessonsincommunity-basedIEMgainedthroughfullyparticipatoryprocesses;
        Globally

    (iii)Improvedandmore durable environmental dormation management systems.

    Strengthened institutional capacity et the central level:

    (i)Productiono f environmental legaltexts andtheir diffusion at the decentralized level;

    (ii)Productiono f legal texts to transfer natural resourcesmanagement to decentralized authorities.

    Preservation of natural resources and ecosystems:

    (i) Restoration, protection, and conservation of globally-significant ecosystems and habitats and key
    biodiversity assets therein;

     (ii)
        Increaseinlandareaunder formal or informal ecosystemmanagement schemes;

     (iii)Benefits from global biodiversity use more equitably shared and indigenous knowledge
     incorporated into conservation efforts.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

    Since the GEF project will be fully integrated into the PROADEL, the Ministryo f LandManagement,
    Urbanism, and Habitat (MATUH) shall have institutional responsibility for the project. MATUH
    would therefore be responsible for administrative, financial and accounting management o f the project
    and would in particular ensure (i)      consistency with contractual documents (Development Grant
    Agreement, Project Implementation Manual, Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial
    Manual, Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, Procurement Plan) and (ii)      provision o f financial
    management reports and completion o f annual audits. The Ministryo f Environment and Water will be
    accountable for technical quality through a CBEM Scientific and Technical Committee establishedby
    Arrite' No 023/PR,!PM/MEE/SG/O. More details on implementationarrangements are detailed inthe
    Project ImplementationManual, the Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual and the
    Project Monitoring andEvaluationManual.

    Interveningstructures for the project's orientation, execution andfollow-up include:


       0    The PROADEL Steering Committee, which is a techcal committee to monitor and follow
            up all PIDR projects. It (i) examines and approves the balance sheet o f the previous period's
            activities and (ii)
                              adopts the action programs andbudgets.



                                                     - 1 8 -

0 The CBEM Scientificand TechnicalAdvisory Committeewillreview the technical elements
  o f the project's activities havinga national scope, guarantee the coherence and scientific quality
  o f activities, and take part to the monitoring, and evaluation o f the project from a technical
  standpoint.

0 The PROADEL Project Management Unit, would be responsible for coordinating the
  implementation o f the project.


0 Local project management units o f each o f the relevant baseline projects under the PIDR.
  Three sub-regional local management units for the PROADEL comprise an administrator, a
  monitoring and evaluation specialist, a capacity-building and communication specialist, an
  environmental and social specialist, and an accountant. They would be responsible for (i)      the
  implementation o f capacity buildingactivities at the local level, (ii)
                                                                        monitoringthe management
  o f funds transferred to beneficiaries to cofinance subprojects, (iii)
                                                                       monitoring andevaluation o f
  activities at the local level, and (iv) distributinginformation to the local stakeholders and the
  PMU. Inthe sites covered by the PRODALKA and PRODABO, this support will be ensured
  by their project coordination units. Follow-up and support of subprojects related to soil
  fertility, will be handled by the Inter-regional Coordination andManagement Units o f ASPOP.
  This collaboration will be done within the framework of conventions whose objectives and
  terms will be studied by the persons in charge for the various projects and by the various
  financial contributors.


0 Decentralized Project Approval Committees for each of the relevant baseline projects.
  SubprefectoralDepartmental Decision and Approval Committees are organs that have been
  created under the framework o f the PROADEL and would examine and approve subprojects
  elaborated and proposed by PROADEL eligible beneficiaries in GEF priority zones in
  PROADEL project area. These committees consist o f representatives of: (i)deconcentrated
  line ministries concerned with submitted subprojects; (ii) NGO chosen by his or her peers;
                                                               an
  (iii) ruralorganizations;and(iv)community-basedorganizations.IntheGEFintervention
        local
  zones covered by PRODALKA and PRODABO, this function will be ensured by the
  appropriate local decision committees o f the PRODALKA and PRODABO. Subprojects
  related to soil fertility and restoration will be examined by the local decision selection
  committees o f ASPOP. More details are available inthe PIM.


0 Local Communities,with farmers, stockbreeders, fishermen, community associations, etc. at
  their core. Individuals inrural communities would form community-based organizations, where
  all local shareholders would meet with a secretariat to organize meetings andwrite reports. The
  meetings would allow communities to assess their needs andprepare Local Development Plans
  in a participatory manner. Local communities will submit for approval their proposals for
  co-financing micro-investments inthe GEF priority intervention areas to various existing local
  decision committees, as described above. During the approval process, requests are reviewed
  by local project management units to check on conformity with the project's guidelines. Upon
  approval, they are forwarded to the PMU which transfers funds to beneficiaries to finance the
   subprojects. The project would subcontract with service providers to support beneficiaries in
   subprojects implementation.




                                            -19-

Program Management andMonitoring

Day-to-day management o f project activities would be assured by the PROADEL's Project
Management Unit (PMU) in N'Djamena, with members recruited by MATUH and under the direct
supervision o f the PROADEL National Coordinator. The National Coordinator works in close
cooperation with the GEF Specialist and the Financial Management Specialist (FMS). The PMU is
responsible for: (i)  coordinating overall implementation o f the project, (ii)
                                                                             managmg project activities
implemented at the central level, (iii)  ensuring availability of funds, (iv) maintaining the books and
accounts o f project activities and producing financial reports, (v) monitoring and evaluating
implementation and impacts o f the project, (vi) reporting results to various stakeholders
(administration, donors, civil society, projects, Decision Committees), and (vii) providing guidance and
technical assistance to decentralized PROADEL teams inKoumra, Moundou, andN'Djamena and staff
inthe baselineprojectsASPOP, PRODALKA andPRODABO. Additional staffhavebeenor wouldbe
recruited withn the PMU for the implementation o f GEF activities: (i) GEF Specialist, (ii)
                                                                              a                       an
Assistant inMonitoringandEvaluation, (iii)     a GEF Accountant, (iv) a Secretary, and(v) two drivers.

A comprehensive Project Implementation Manual, Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, and a
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual prepared by the Government o f Chad were
reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. The Project Implementation Manual defines procedural
arrangements for implementing the project and includes guidelines for identifying, approving,
implementing, supervising, and evaluating subprojects. The detailed configuration o f the PMU, the
profile of the staff, andtheirjob descriptions are also described inthe Project ImplementationManual.

FinancialMechanisms andFlow o f Funds (see annex 11)

Financing o f the the project's expenditures will be based upon the GEF Grant Account opened at the
level of the World Bank inWashington. The Special accounts A and B (respectively for the financing
of community subprojects on the one hand, and other operational and capital expenditures on the other
hand) and the National Counterpart Funds Account will be maintained inN'Djamena. Thus, resources
necessaryfor financing the activities will come from:

e   GEFGrant Account openedinWashington, DC for Authorized Withdrawal andthe Replenishment
    o f Special Accounts A andB, and for direct-payments to suppliers ;

e   Special Accounts A and B (open ina Commercial Bank considered to be acceptableby The Bank)
    for all the expenditure in front o f on the spot financed inthe country by the resources o f the GEF;
    and

e   National Counterpart Funds Account (open in a Commercial Bank acceptable by The Bank), for
    expendituresto be financed by the Government.

FinancialManagement Arrangements

The financial management will be ensured by the PROADEL's FMS in collaboration with the GEF
Accountant. Expenditures will be budgeted by the P M U o f the PROADEL, and more especially the
GEF Specialist and its Accountant. All the payments will be made upon the triple signature of the
National Coordinator o f the PROADEL, the FMS o f the PROADEL and the GEF Specialist. Daily
accounting and financial operations and the preparation o f Disbursement Requests will be carried out
by the GEF Accountant under the supervision of the FMS of the PROADEL. The system of fmancial


                                                  -20-

managementbasedon a requirement of triple signature will guarantee (i) technical responsibility o f
                                                                          the
the MEW for technical decisions made by the GEF Specialist in conjunction with the Scientific and
Technical Advisory Committee, (ii) moral and financial responsibility o f MATUH to ensure
                                        the
supervision o f all the measureso f the PROADEL through the Coordinator and the FMS.

     1. CapacityAssessmentof thePMU

A PMU with a competent and experienced staff, including a coordinator, an administrative and
financial management specialist, a principal accountant, a GEF Specialist to be complemented by a
GEF accountant, have already been recruited through a competitive process acceptable to the Bank.
Adequate provision would be made to train the accounting and financial staff. The PMU includes an
experianced procurement specialist. At the field level, there are three LPMUs, comprising inparticular
an administrator, a monitoring and evaluation specialist and an accountant. The project would benefit
from the extension o f the financial management system, already acceptableto the Bank, whch has been
established for the PROADEL. The system would provide the Recipient and the Bank with accurate
andtimely informationonresourcesandexpenditures. The financialmanagementsystemwould include
budgetary accounting and financial reporting for internal control device and auditing elements. The
PMU would be responsible for project administrative and techmcal coordination and financial
managemento f the project.

     2. Accounting

The PMU would maintain the books and accounts o f the project activities and ensure that the annual
financial statements are produced ina timely manner. The PMUwould be responsible for consolidating
project accounts. The computerized accounting and financial management system installed for the
PROADEL will be extended to include the GEF activities. T h ~ swould also include the preparation o f
guidelines for using the software, in accordance with procedures in the Project Administrative,
Accounting and Financial Management Manual to be approved by the Bank. The accounting and
financial management staff will be trained accordingly on the operation o f the computerized accounting
system. The PMU would maintain its accounts in accordance with international accounting standards,
keeping all documentation related to project expenditures and following sound accounting practices for
all financial records. These accounts would be consolidated with records to be made available to Bank
missions and independent auditors. The accounts o f the project would be audited annually.

Financial Monitoring Reports

The FMS o f PROADEL with the support of the GEF Accountant would be responsible for preparing
the Financial Monitoring Reports, according to procedures laid out in the Project Administrative,
Accounting and Financial Management Manual. The National Coordinator o f the PROADEL would be
responsible for ensuring that the reports are provided to the Bank on a timely basis. Financial
Management Reports would show (i)       whether funds disbursedto subprojects are used for the intended
purpose; (ii)  whether project implementation is on track; and (iii)whether costs remained within
budget. Financial information would be explicitly linked with the project's progress andprocurement.
The quarterly financial monitoring reports would include (i)  discussion o f project progress, (ii)
                                                                                                 sources
and uses of funds, (iii) uses of funds by expenditure type, (iv) an output monitoring report, and (v) a
procurement report. The computerized accounting system would be customized to generate the
Financial Monitoring Reports as indicated in"Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank-Financed
Projects: Guidelinesfor Borrowers:" with a statement showing cashreceipts by source, expenditures by
main classification, beginning and ending cash balances of the project, and supporting schedules


                                               -21 -

   comparing actual and planned expenditures. Adequate financial management arrangements, including
   the ability to produce a timely Financial MonitoringReport, would be inplace by credit effectiveness.
   A separate module of the PROADEL financial management and accounting systemwill be createdto
   account for the financial and techmcal data for the activities financed by the GEF. This will make it
   possible to produce financial management reports andtechmcal reports for the project activities.

   Auditing

   The audit o f the project's activities, including preparation activities under the PDF-B grant, will be
   carried out by the independent firm already selected by competitive recruitment for the PROADEL.
   Project records and accounts would be audited in accordance with intemational audit standards. The
   audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no more than six months after the end of the
   Government's fiscal year. In addition to a standard short-form report with an opinion on the annual
   financial statements, the auditors would be required to: (i)  review all statementsof expenditure and the
   intemal control procedures goveming their preparation for the period under audit and express a
   separate opinion on them; (ii)  review the management and use of the special account and the project
   account and express a separate opinion on each; and (iii)       review the intemal control system of the
   project-to   identify its major weaknesses and shortcomings-and propose practical recommendations
   for improvement. Auditors would also perform interim audits (nine months into the fiscal year) to
   review the intemal control system, includingmanagementperformance, andissue reports no more than
   one month from the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports would
   be addressedby management without delay (no more than six months from the end of the fiscal year)
   before the final audit.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
   The following altemative projects havebeenconsideredandrejected:

   Blended versus stand-alone project. As a stand alone GEF project, the project would have had a
   much more limited impact and geographic scope due to resource constraints and hgher risks. As a
   blended operation, the PROADEL will benefit from better targeted IEM capacity-building tools and
   activities, andadditional funding to manage longer-term local, national and global environmental issues
   that contribute to the perpetuation o f rural poverty. The GEF project, in tum, will benefit from a
   national and cross-sectoral framework o f great breadth anddepth, as well as decentralized management
   structures and logistics. It is unlikely that without the structure and resources lent through a blended
   operation, sufficient capacity would be builtto monitor ecological processesat ever larger geographical
   scales, or that subprojects supported by other donors would be able to generate in the aggregate the
   same degree o f broad, multiple benefits to diverse stakeholders. Since PROADEL and associated
   baseline activities will contribute to supporting the basic needs o f communities, the likelihood of
   success for GEF activities will be higher, as they will be in a better position to address longer-term
   issues related to ecosystem management and biodiversity conservation. Moreover, the APL approach
   adopted by the baseline project allows for the Government to readily advance with an incremental
   scale-up to all departments in a subsequent phase, and to develop a sound, long-term program, based
   on the concrete lessons fi-om the first phase o f interventions.




                                                      - 22 -

   Top-down centralized programs. The Government of Chad has started decentralization, vowing to
   disengage from the management of development activities and to increase the active participation o f
   rural residents inthe planning and the implementation of development activities. As in other countries,
   projects managed at the central level have been ineffective and failed to adequately respond to local
   needs. This is particularly the case for environmental protection activities. An alternative approach
   would have been to design a more traditional "command and control" biodiversity conservation project,
   aimed at delineating new areas to be protected, adopting the necessary regulations, and formulating
   conservation management plans to be implemented. However, experience has shown that such an
   approach has limitedchance of succeeding, because it does not provide sufficientlystrong incentives to
   local communities to comply and participate in monitoring and enforcement o f conservation schemes.
   Moreover, an approach would run counter the Government's position on the desirability o f
   implementing the NEAP and BSAP through community-based and decentralized structures. To the
   contrary, the project takes into account the need to contextualize interventions in the context of rural
   poverty reduction. I t aims at integrating natural resource management activities into landuse planning
   andapcultural andlivestock activities

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).


             Sector Issue                I


                                                                            Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)   Objective(DO)

Apculture                                 ASPOP Agricultural Services             S        I       s
                                           & ProducersOrganizations
                                           Project Cr 38370, active
Apculture                                  PSAP Agricultural and Pastroal         S                S
                                           Services, Cr 26850, closed
Energy                                     Petroleum sector management            S                S
                                                                                           i       s
                                           capacity building, Cr 33730,
                                           active
Energy                                     HouseholdEnergy Project, Cr
                                           38020, closed                          S
Other development agencies
Afncan Development Bank                    naturalresource management
French Development Agency                  ruralhydrology
European Commission                        naturalresource management
GermanDevelopment Cooperation -            naturalresource management,
GTZ/KfW/DED                                decentralization



P/DO Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),t
                                          I
                                                                            (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
   Lessonsfrom theBank's experiencein Chad

   Through implementation o f community-based decentralized development funds (FOSAP, PSAP,



                                                    -23  -

FACIL), the Bankhas learnedthat:

   If local groups are adequately trained and monitored, they are capable of managing the entire
    subproject cycle, from needsassessmentthrough payment o f service providers.

    Disbursementefficiency is paramount inacquiring andmaintaining localinterest anddynamics.

    The GOC cannot protect or manage biodiversity in general, and protected areas in particular,
    without the endorsement and participation o f local communities and the strengthening o f local
    management capacities.

    Communities will not accept the additional costs (in time or money) imposed by sound natural
    resources management including conservation o f biodiversity and ecosystem functions if they do
    not understandthe benefits.

    The interconnected mix o f environmental and socio-economic threats to the preservation o f Chad's
    globally significant environmental assets demands holistic approaches that can balance the
    ecological, economic, social, and financial needs o f communities and the imperative o f poverty
    reduction. However, these approacheshave heretofore been very limitedor lacking.

Household Energy Project (CR 30820 CD, closed on June 30, 2004) aimed to create local
management structures at the village level to manage wood resources. Some 100 villages now manage
their resources and generate sustainable income from a woodfuel tax andthe sale of woodfuels. With
considerable effort, it is possible to develop adequate management capacity at the village level. It is
necessary to involve all possible stakeholders in the process, even those not directly involved. The
project had four components: (i)establishing village-based natural resource management--ths
component builds the capacity to design simple long-term village land-useandwood exploitationplans
for villages in the N'Djamena wood fuel catchment area by funding the technical assistance for
nongovernmental organizations, forestry agents, and villagers to develop a master plan and thereafter
manage and control fuelwood use; (ii)   buildingthe capacity of the Agency for Household Energy and
Environment (AEDE) to monitor and control wood product flow through charging collecting user
feesltaxes; (iii)
                improving the efficiency of household fuel use by commercializing efficient cooking
stoves (firewood, charcoal); and promoting the use o f low-cost kerosene and liquid petroleum gas
(LPG) stoves with publicity and NGO-sponsored promotional activities as well as testing, product
development, and monitoring o f stove performance; and (iv) capacity buildingand training as a part o f
project management. Pilot programs show that it is possible to implement systems o f collection and
marketingof the wood fuel which benefit communities and allow for sustainable regeneration of wood
resources. However, it is important to closely follow the environmental impact, so that communities do
not have incentives for excessive deforestation. This conclusion was also made by the Decentralization
Project and Local Governorship o f Ferlo in Senegal. The project entertains a key role for AEDE in
facilitating communities to achieve a sustainable replication o f the results acquired inthe N'Djamena
area to the Lac Weye andMoundou Charcoal Supply Basin zone.

West African Pilot PastoralProject (Programme PastoralPilote Ouest Africain PPPOA). This-
project demonstrated the viability in Chad o f participatory community-based approaches to improved
natural resource management, in pastoral habitats, and the desirability o f llnking these to other
community demands (e.g., social services) under a more holistic approach. A number of important
lessons were learned that have been incorporated into the design o f the project. Crophivestock
interactions should be hamessedto a greater extent in order to maximize the economic returns to rural


                                                - 24 -

subprojects. It is important for project success that the procedures for preparation o f local development
plans and sustainable community-based natural resource management are extremely simplified.
Likewise, the institutional architecture andprocedures for obtaining financing should be as transparent,
autonomous, non-complex, and expedient as possible. Particularly in the initial phases, technical
experts and extension agents should focus their assistanceto demonstrate and disseminate the lessons
from successfulpilot approaches, whde the ultimate elaboration of projects should rest inthe hands of
communities. It is important that real capacity for using analytical tools be built at the outset o f the
project within communities, andthat facilitators and extension agents play a hands-offrole. Inaddition,
monitoring and evaluation systems and frameworks need to be designed with a very practical
orientation, inorder for local stakeholdersto compile reliable data whch can persuasively demonstrate
positive outcomes. Local capacity must be built inmonitoring methods, and indicators should include
indicators related to rural productivity as well as ecosystem health. Among the most frequently
articulated needs from pastoral communities included: access to water, a veterinary pharmacy, a
vaccination park, a collection place for milk, and access to credit. In addition, the Chadian National
Livestock BreedingProgram o f 1994 showed that it was possible to arrangepastoral spaces inzones o f
exploitation controlled below load capacities and that areas under management not only make it
possible to ensure good quality pasture, but for increased productivity o f livestock, soil fertility
regeneration, andbiodiversity conservation.

Lessonsfrom the Bank's experiencein other countries

The design of the project also incorporates experiences acquired inother countries inthe Wedcentral
Afncan region, including:

Niger Natural Resources Management Project. This project demonstrated a solid record o f success
and proved that communities have substantial capacity for local development in the area of natural
resourcesmanagement. The project was given "satisfactory" ratings across-the-boardupon completion,
and the sustainability of its interventions was rated as "likely," particularly as a large share of
communities involved inthe project indicated their intention to self-finance subprojects identified under
the project. Simplified community-based procurement procedures were introduced and implemented
after the midtermreview, andthe new procedures were successfully implementedby all communities in
the project, even with the handicap o f a sparse network o f bank agencies (as in Chad). This is an
important precedent for the Chad project, as the socio-economic and environmental contexts are quite
similar, particularly in the rural sphere: fragile ecosystems, weak local communities, inefficient
provision ofbasic services, and slowly emergingdecentralization.         ,



 Senegal: Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project (SPEMPPROGEDE). This
US$20 million IDNGEF project is aimed at helping Senegal meet its rapidly growing demand for
household fiels without the loss o f forest cover, while enhancing and diversifying local incomes and
 empowering rural women. A sustainable system capable o f producing more than 400,000 tons of
fuelwood per year has been established, and deforestation in the Tambacounda and Kolda regions has
been reduced by some 30,000 hectares per year through community-based management plans. The
 incremental annual income inthe project zone from the sale o f sustainable fielwood andthe promotion
 o f complementary new agricultural and animal husbandry products has reached more than US$9.5
million. Moreover, an incremental market penetration o f 83,000 improved charcoal stoves and o f
 11,500 kerosene stoves has been achieved.




                                                  - 25 -

4. Indications of borrowerand recipientcommitmentand ownership:

   0   The Government o f Chad signed a Rural Development Policy Letter on October 27, 2003,
       expressing its commitment to some sector-based measures, particularly the allocation of oil
       revenues to rural development and the financing o f subprojects identified by the participative
       processes plannedinthe framework o f the PIDR.

   0   Recognizing that its economy is highly dependent on natural resources, the Government o f Chad
       has adopted a number o f environmental policies to address ecological threats to its security, to
       promote more integrated approaches to ecosystem management, and to strengthen environmental
       protection and the sanctity o f protected areas. Building on its core National Environmental
       Protection Law 13lPRl94, the Government o f Chad has adopted a National Environmental Action
       Plan (NEAP) as well as a National Biodiversity Strategy and Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan
       (BSAP) in the last few years. The BSAP promotes a community-based biodiversity management
       framework. The NEAP will ensure that environmental objectives are integrated into all economic
       development planning. Finally, more specific legislation has been introduced to regulate hunting,
       fishing, and timber and non-timber forest product extraction. Chadhasratifiedthe UNFramework
       Convention on Climate Change (1994), the Convention on Biological Diversity (1994), the
       Convention to Combat Desertification (1997), and the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands (1990).
       Chad is also a signatory to the Yaoundd Declaration on Tropical Forests. The Govemment has
       created two national parks (Manda and Zakouma), biospheres (Fitri), wildlife reserves (Abou
       Telfane, Bahr Salamat, Binder-LCrC, Fada Archei, Mandelia, Ouadi RimC-Ouadi Achim, and
       Siniaka-Minia), andclassified forests, andpromulgated legislationregulatinghunting, extraction of
       forest products, and fishing. The proportion of Chad's territory under formal protection
       approaches international norms with about 13.3% o f its total area theoretically under formal
       protection. However, the Government lacks the means to effectively enforce these areas under legal
       protection.

   0   A letter of endorsement for the GEF Community Based Ecosystem Management Project was
       obtained from the GEF Focal Point on 03102104.

5. Value addedof Bankand Globalsupport in this project:
    Svnergies between Development Obiective and Global Environmental Obiective

     GEF activities closely parallel and complement each of the four components of the PROADEL, as
    well as some associated aspects o f the Apcultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
    (ASPOP) and the PRODABO and PRODALKA decentralized development programs, all o f which
    are part o f the PIDR. Inthis way, the integration o f holistic community-based ecosystem management
    approaches and methodologies vetted by the GEF into local development planning will improve the
    design of PROADEL and by extension the other projects o f the PIDR, while serving as an umbrella
    framework under which a range of interventions and collaborations can be coordinated. %s
    overarching structure, particularly in focusing on local and decentralized implementation, will
    facilitate a more systematic implementation o f the NEAP and create synergies with other key national
    strategies relating to biodiversity conservation and land management. The project will benefit from a
    national and cross-sectoral framework, as well as decentralized management structures and logistics.
    Since baseline activities will contribute to supporting the basic needs of communities, the likelihood of
    success of GEF activities will be higher, as they will be in a better position to address longer-term
    issues contributing to the perpetuation o fpoverty.



                                                    - 26 -

Catalytic role o f GEF

The GEF is uniquelypositioned to supportthe project's objectives and it is unlikelythat these wouldbe
achieved in the absence o f GEF support. Without incremental GEF finance, integrated ecosystem
managementis not likely to be emphasizedinany coherent way indecentralized development planning,
or articulated as a priority inlocal development plans. As a result, habitats o f global importance could
suffer from irreversible degradation. It is also improbable that a purely demand-dnven rural
development project could effectively address Chad's multiple environmental challenges, nor, gven
Chad's high level o f rural poverty, that communities would prioritize investments in sustainable land
andnaturalresource managementwithout incremental GEF funding for capacity buildingandpiloting.
The provision o f basic services and food security are so important in Chad that, even if there is a
shared agreement that biodiversity protection and land management are important to rural
communities, only scattered attention would be given to this critical issue without a more coherent
framework for interventions. GEF resources will also be used to catalyze support from the donor
community in future phases to sustain and broaden project activities. The project will also create
synergies with other ongoing GEF-supported activities in Chad and the West'Central Afnca region,
thereby bolstering the global environmental objectives achieved. Among these synergistic projects
include:

    Reversal o f Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem (GEF /
    UNDP andIBRD);

    Participatory Conservation in the Manda National Park, Moyen Chari Region in Southeastern
    Chad (GEF / UNDP);

    Building Scientific and Techcal Capacity for Effective Management and Sustainable Use of
    DrylandBiodiversity inWest Afncan Biosphere Reserves (GEF / UNEP);

    Institutional Strengthening and Resource Mobilization for Mainstreaming Integrated Land and
    Water Management Approaches into Development Programs inAfrica (GEF / IBRD);

    Rural Policy Design, Planning andMonitoring Support Project (PAEPS).

Donor coordination

The Bank plays an important role in donor coordination in Chad, having established a network with
major donors and a common approach to rural development under the PIDR. The GEF project will
extendthe Bank's partnerships with bilateral donors under the PROADEL, which is co-financed by the
French Development Agency (AFD), by joining forces with the German Development Cooperation.
The latter's efforts to promote natural resource management and community based ecosystem
management intwo critical areas o f the country under the PRODALKA and PRODABO programs are
focused on two critical sub-regions o f Chad (Mayo-Dallah, Lac L6rC and Kabia inthe Southwest, and
the Biltine-Ouara regions inthe Far East o f the country). This arrangement will ensurethat investments
on the ground can proceed more rapidly and that a common vision among donors can begin to be
formed regarding the expansion o f community based ecosystem management approaches across a
wider area o f the country. Formal cooperation with the German Development Cooperation will be
supplementedby other informal collaborations with ongoing related programs inChad. Twice a year,
the donors will meet and take joint strategic decisions on project performance and to monitor the
achievement o f global objectives.


                                               -27-

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0IncrementalCost
  Other (specify)


2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:



3. Technical:
    The assessment o f institutional and technical capacities conducted as part o f PDF-B activities,
    generated valuable information on the capacity of the stakeholders in integrated ecosystem
    management. A comprehensive training planhas been developed and would be implemented rapidly in
    order to ensure success o f the project. The project would emphasize capacity building and training
    throughout its implementation. Inaddition, the project will contract intemational technical assistance to
    help programmingand implementation o f integratedecosystemmanagement activities.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
    Project Steering Committee

    At the central level, a single Steering Committee has been established to monitor and guide
    implementation o f PIDR projects, including PROADEL, ASPOP, PRODABO and PRODALKA. The
    Steering Committee consists of:

   0    Representatives o f ministries (MATUH,MPED, MA, ME, MEW, MTP, MD, and others);

   0    Representatives o f civil society (community-based organizations, NGOs, and producer
        organizations);

   0    Representativeso f the project team as observers, when concerned;

   0    Representativeso f donors as observers.

    The Steering Committee will be supported by a CBEM Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee,
    that will be charged with ensuringconformity o f the project to GEF guidelines.




                                                   - 28 -

   Implementation

   Decentralization is evolving. The project would support the decentralization agenda, but
   decentralization is still in its early stages, and its effective implementation i s linked in particular to
   politicalvariables. Therefore, implementationarrangements of baseline projects the GEF project would
   rely on have been designed to function independently of decentralization. Elected committees would be
   established at the sous prqecture or dLpartement level and would be in charge of development plans
   and subproject evaluation and approval.

   Though supported by the Government of Chad, the participatory approach is still at an early stage,
   particularly inthe accountability o f technical and administrative entities. This issue would be addressed
   inthe capacity-building component.


4.2 Project management:
   Limited managerial capacity is a serious constraint at the central and the decentralized levels and staff
   have been recruited through a competitive and transparent process and would receive training through
   the project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
   All procurement decisions will be supervisedby the procurement specialist inthe PROADEL PMU in
   coordination with the GEF Specialist, under the supervision o f the National Coordinator o f
   PROADEL. On the basis o f the evaluation o f procurement capacity carried out at appraisal, a
   two-pronged action plan was proposed and accepted: (i)       development o f an action plan and budget for
   the activities to be carried out inthe first eighteen (18) months o f the project; and (ii)
                                                                                             preparation o f a
   procurement plancorresponding to this period.


4.4 Financialmanagementissues:
   To better manage the project and ensure sound and effective financial management, the financial
   management system developped for the PROADEL would be extended to cover the GEF activities.
   This system comprises (i)Project Administrative, Financial, and Accounting Management Manual to
                               a
   be finalized before effectiveness and (ii)a computerized information, monitoring and evaluation,
   accounting, and financial management system to provide accurate and timely information on the status
   o f the project. The system which is (i)   user friendly and adaptable over time, takes into account the
   progressive geographical extension o f the project; (ii) use o f a transparent accounting and
                                                                 allows
   financial management system ; (iii)allows capture o f the flow o f funds; and (iv) has adequate
   arrangements for cost monitoring for all project expenditures. The project's financial management
   staff, whch would comprise the PROADEL RAF, the Principal accountant and the GEF accountant
   would be adequately trained to handle the system, ensure good financial management, andproduce all
   requiredreports and statementsontime.




                                                     - 29 -

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
   Under PROADEL, an Environmental Assessment was completed prior to its appraisal, with local
   stakeholders involved in the preparation. The final environmental assessment included an
   Environmental and Social Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy Framework and was
   received by the Bank on November 5, 2002, and have been available in Chad and at the Bank's
   Infoshop since November 21,2002. Consultants have met with local associations, local authorities, and
   NGOs in several dkpartements representative o f each agroecological zone (sudanian, sahelo-sudanian,
   and sahellian) to identify and appreciate subprojects that would be requested by communities and
   fundedbythe project. The consultantscould therefore evaluaterelatedpotentialenvironmental impacts.
   However any subproject could affect the environment and they would be systematically reviewed in
   advance, and appropriate measures would be taken to fully disclose potentially negative environmental
   impacts.

   For subprojects identifiedunder ASPOP, ASPOP safeguarddocuments would apply: anEnvironmental
   Analysis had been also prepared which included as well a Pest Management Plan, a Resettlement
   Policy Framework and a Dam Safety Analysis. All of them have been preparedby consultants on a
   participatory manner with strong consultations with representatives o f NGOs, techcal services o f
   ministries, producer organizations, andhave beendisclosed inNovember 2002.


5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
   The Environmental and Social Management Framework for environmental impact assessment is
   founded on PROADEL's design. Therefore :

     (i) environmental andsocialspecialistofthePROADELinthePMUwillberesponsiblefor
         the
    monitoring social andenvironmental impacts o f the GEF project activities;

     (ii)hewouldbeassistedbytheenvironmentalandsocialspecialistsoftheLPMUs;

     (iv) the social and environment assessment capacity of the approval committees (PROADEL,
    ASPOP, PRODABO andPRODALKA) would be strengthened.

   Considerable training would be needed to make the framework operational. This training would be
   provided by PROADEL and shouldbe planedandexecutedby the P M Uat the national level.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final drafi: 11/05/2002
   This refers to PROADEL Environmental Assessment.




                                                      - 30 -

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
     Following an information campaign, the consultants visited various dkpartements between April 17,
     2002, andMay 19, 2002. They went to the chief town o f dkpartements, sousprkfectures, andcantons.
     Local political authorities, civil society representatives, producer organization representatives,
     women's groups, and community associations were invitedto express themselves on local difficulties
     impeding the sustainable development of their communities. For ASPOP EA, consultants visited
     several areas inNovember 2001to discuss the activities with local stakeholders andconsultations have
     then beenorganized duringthe June-July 2002 technical mission.


5.5 What mechanismshave beenestablishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
     The monitoring and information system o f the project would include environmental assessment
     monitoring. The environmental and social specialist o f the PMU would be responsible for following up
     on environmental indicators. Furthermore a larger natural resources monitoring system would be
     designed under the project. It would provide surveillance of renewable resources to aid local
     stakeholdersindecisionmalung.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.


      Measures for the inclusion of marginalized groups-particularly      women, youth, HIV-AIDS-affected
     people, and transhumant herders.
     Women, youth, HIV-AIDS-affected households, and transhumant herders are traditionally excluded
     from economic choices concerning communities (poor women constitute a particularly weak group),
     andfrequent conflicts betweenherdersandfarmers inthe sudanianandsahelian zones oRenprevent the
     involvement o f those groups. Inclusion o f marginalized groups must be effective both at the
     decisionmaking level (Decision Committees) and at the subproject level (benefit from investments).
     Information campaigns and sensitization efforts would strongly focus on these issues.

     Compositionof Decision and Approval Committees

     Having Decision andApproval Committees at the intervillage level, where people know each other and
     share the same cultural background, would facilitate the process. But there are many areas in Chad
     where traditional and decentralized administrative authorities may have difficulty coming to agreement.
     The project would subcontract trained animateurs to assist communities intheir needsassessments.




                                                    -31 -

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating inthe project?
   The project has been designed during the elaboration o f the NEAP and the PIDR thereby capitalizing
   upon these meetings and workshops. The following major stakeholders on biodiversity conservation
   andenvironmental managementhavebeeninvolvedinthe preparationofthe GEFproject:

       Administration: Ministry o f Environment and Water, Ministry of Amculture, Ministry of
       Livestock, Ministry o f Land Management, Urbanism and Habitat and others concemed by rural
       development (Energy, Health, Transport, Education);

       Information centers / Research institutions: National Center for Research Support (CNAR),
       Training and Study Center for Development (CEFOD), Veterinary ResearchLaboratory o f Farcha,
       N'Djamkna Univesity's Library, Committee for the Lake Chad Basin (CBLT);

       Beneficiaries: representativeso f producers organizations like the "Plateforme Paysanne" (Peasants'
       Platform), representatives of women organizations (CELIAF - Cellule de Liaison et d'Information
       des Femmes du Tchad), members o f the private sector (Cotton Chad), andalsojust beneficiairies;

       International institutions: the donor community (UNDP, GEF, France, World Bank, Germany,
       Japan, EC, etc.) and intemational NGOs (mostly WWF).


   Stakeholdershave been included inthe project design since its earliest stage o f preparation and would
   be involvedinimplementation at severalpoints:

       An information workshop was held on July 20, 2004 to introduce GEF and the project to various
       project coordinators andtechnicians inChad;

       A seminar was held on September 9-10, 2004 for technical specialists, NGOs, representatives
       UNDP andthe World Bank, andrelevant staff o fbaseline projects to review the preparation o f the
       project;

       A technical workshop was held in November 2004 to validate the logframe, the intervention
       strategy, a list o f eligible subprojets and the study on soil fertility with the participation o f about
       thirty representativesofkey actors impliedinproject planning;

       An appraisal workshop was held inFebruarylMarch 2005 with broad participation o f government
       representatives, civil society groups, and technical specialists to validate the final project document
       and accompanying implementationstrategies;

       Stakeholders would name their own representatives to local Decision Committees through a
       participatory processpreceded by an information campaign ;

       Specific procedures have been put inplace to make sure that women and other marginalizedsocial'
       groups are involved in project preparation and implementation, including the development of a
       specific training plan and monitoring and evaluation plan that elaborates measures and
       recommendations for inclusion o f marginalized groups.




                                                     - 32 -

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
   NGOs and civil society have been consulted extensively throughout the project's preparation. During
    implementation, collaboration with NGOs would be a key element o f success, because NGOs can (i)
    act as intermediaries for communities; (ii)
                                              provide services to the project, such as needs assessments,
    training workshops, and project monitoring; (iii)help to implement subprojects; and (iv) be elected to
    Decision Committees as representativesof civil society.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensurethe project achieves its social
development outcomes?
    The project would work in close collaboration with national institutions to make sure that financed
    investments are fully supported and staffed. The Monitoring and Evaluation system will capture the
    performance o f the project toward the achievement o f the social development outcomes included in
    subprojects.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
    Social outcome indicators would be includedinthe monitoring system and linkedto poverty reduction
    efforts. Some indicators would be in common with the Poverty Monitoring System set up under the
    PRSP process.


7. SafeguardPolicies:




I   Forestrv(0P
            * \                                                                      0No                   I
    PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                   0Yes 0No
    CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03)                                               0 Yes 0No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                0Yes 0No
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OPBP 4.12)                                        0Yes 0No
    Safetyof Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                            0 Yes 0No
    ProiectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50. BP7.50. GP 7.50)                  0Yes 0No


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

The environmental assessments o f PROADEL and ASPOP conducted during preparation have given a
good indication of the cumulative environmental impacts to be expected from the project's generic
investments. By identifyingissues inadvance, proposing measuresor changesintechnology or construction
materials, and recommending methods for monitoring environmental indicators (through local-level
institutions and structures) commonly affected by project-funded investments, the time and effort required
for specific environmental and social assessments of subprojects would be greatly reduced. To ensure
compliance with the applicable safeguardpolicies :

  0    An environmental and social screening, evaluating, andsupervising mechanism would be maintained
       to ensure that funded subprojects are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable and that


                                                  - 33 -

    any adverse environmental or social consequences are recognized early inthe project cycle. Such a
    mechanism would allow foreknowledge o f the major environmental and social issues and impacts of
    individual subprojects, the set o f measures to avoid them or mitigate those that are unavoidable, and
    the estimated costs o f those measures.

    Community awareness would be raised about the environmental and social impact o f project-funded
    activities and promoting ways to mitigate or avoid negative effects. This would be done through the
    project`s information, education, and communication activities, which would assist in disseminating
    information related to good practices. Other information about appropriate construction materials
    andmethods inenvironmentally sensitive areas, site selection criteria, and other measuresto mitigate
    likely adverseimpacts couldbe disseminatedthrough technical handbooks or other means.

    New methods would be found for supporting improved natural resource management through the
    project`s community-based interventions. The project would facilitate community understanding of
    the relation between natural resources and well-being, the need to improve both, and the need for
    action to grow out o f understanding and be based on the community's own commitment and local
     structures. Because poor communities often lack the impetus and initial capital necessary to get
     started, environmental problems often have to be proactively targeted at the community level. The
    project would have an active role promoting and supporting projects aimed at improving
     communities' management o f the natural resources that they control and depend on for their
     livelihoods.

     A Dam Safety Analysis has been prepared among the ASPOP safeguard documents. It includes
     generic dam safety measures and training proposals for the purpose o f enabling producers
     organizations to manage the safety of their small dams. An Integrated Pest Management Plan has
    been as well prepared under ASPOP to ensure that producers organizations apply appropriate pest
     management approaches under their subprojects. Finally a Resettlement Policy Framework has been
     also prepared. These Dam Safety Analysis, Pest Managment Plan and Resettlement Policy
     Framework will be applied inthis project when needed.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
   The project's long-term vision is a sound enabling environment for community-based ecosystem
   management using public resources that are managed in a participatory and decentralized manner.
   While the project will establish transitory structures to this end that rely on donor financing, particular
   attention would be paid to the institutional and financial sustainability o f interventions. The
   Government has provided clear assurances to guarantee the sustainability o f project interventions, and
   actions and commitments to advance decentralization, co-management o f protected areas, and more
   equitable land tenure and natural resourcesmanagement structures have already been taken. The Law
   on Oil Revenue Management envisions a progressive integration o f a percentage of oil revenues or
   Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Debt Initiative hnds into decentralized public resources
   management frameworks. In this way, the most typical barrier to sustainability-long-term
   funding-will    be addressed by the project's efforts to "institutionalize" more decentralized funding
   mechanisms for environmental management activities and to establish a pipeline o f community
   conceived and vetted subprojects.




                                                   - 34 -

    The strategic approach of the project rests on the assumption that early direct engagement and
    empowerment o f communities is fundamental to creating proper incentives for socially and
    environmentally sustainable natural resource exploitation and that environmental subprojects must be
    analyzed in the context o f their economic feasibility and contribution to livelihoods. Sustainability o f
    subproject investments i s primarily ensuredby the participation of beneficiaries inall decisions and by
    their financial and other in-kindcontributions. Beneficiaries would be responsible for defining their
    priorities, supervising implementation, and managing and maintaining such investments. Furthermore,
    sustainability o f all investments financed under the project is a key criterion for approval. Beneficiaries
    must have developed a maintenance plan outlining responsibilities, management, and financing
    arrangements, andavailability o f necessaryhumanresources.

    Additional arguments for the sustainability o fproject interventions includethe following:

        The long-term, phased approach of the PIDR and specific PROADEL activities, which affords
        flexibility, continuous feedback, and a regular schedule o f periodic adjustments inits targets, is a
        sound framework inwhch to guaranteethe sustainability o f interventions.

   0    Inforging collaboration among stakeholders, including civil society and localresearchinstitutions,
        the project will facilitate a shared vision of roles and responsibilities inIEM and build a durable
        partnership to sustain the achievements o f the program.

la. Replicability:
    Interventions to be advanced under the project appear to have great potential for replicability, not only
    within Chad, but on the rest of the Afncan continent. That participatory or co-management of natural
    resources and protected areas is critical to sustainability still remains a novel concept. While a few
    CDD operations inChad inthe past have partially adopted these principles, the implementationo f the
    full suite of GEF incremental activities will enable amainstreaming ofthis newconcept.

   The project's implementation model pivots around the scale-up and replication in all o f Chad's
   departments o f subprojects and other interventions based on widespread dissemination o f good practice
   incommunity-based IEM.This will be advancedthrough consultations, workshops, outreach materials,
   and other public and inter-country exchanges. These lessons will be publicized and made available
   worldwide through the PROADEL web site. Moreover, the attention being paid to the economic
   feasibility o f the environmental projects and their relationship to sustaining rural livelihoods also augurs
   well for replication; the positive returns from locally appropriate sustainable resource practices, such as
   water harvesting and soil fertility replenishment techniques, will be visible and other communities and
   farmers will seek to achieve similar benefits. Local training will facilitate a sharing o f experiences and
   best practices from other countries, such as Niger, that have successfully implementedsimilar programs.
   Meanwhile, dissemination o f best practices in Chad to other countries in and outside the regon will be
   promoted by project staff and stakeholders, facilitated by an earmarked budget for outreach.
   Participatory M&E information management will also enable the extraction o f important lessons from
   the project that will be a key element o f successful replicationinother areas.




                                                     - 35 -

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column ofAnnex 1):
                    Risk                           Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
heffective decentralization of natural                  M          f i e project recognizes that the promulgationof
resource management                                                :ertain legislationandtheir enforcement will be
                                                                   iecessaryto ensure for more effective
                                                                   lecentralized managemento fnaturalresources.
                                                                   4ctions to address this risk are incorporated into
                                                                   he project design.

Localpopulations are not interested inthe               M          f i e project has made provisions for incitative
realization of community-based ecosystem                           neasures such as sensitization campaigns and
managementactivities                                               ;pecific trainings, as well as realistic level o f
                                                                   :ommunity contributions.

Availability o f Counterpart funding from                S         3ilrevenueswouldbeearmarkedfor these
the Government                                                     :nvironmental activities as environment is one of
                                                                   the priority sectors.
From Components to Outputs
Beneficiaries do not have enough                        M          Guidelines for the conditions o f local
resourcesto co-finance subprojects                                 contributionhave been set at a reasonable level
                                                                   andare comparable to those of similar projects
                                                                   inChad. Formostofthe subprojects,allthe
                                                                   contribution can be inkindor labor.

Localdecision committees suffer from                    M          Specify rule and conditions ingrant agreement,
political interference and cannot operate                          including "social audits," full andtransparent
autonomously                                                       disclosure.

Competent service providers and                         M          A careful selection o ftargeted interventionareas
sufficient resources are not readily                               has beenmade, andadequate training can be
available.                                                         provided andinternational invitationsto bid
                                                                   launched. A scientific committee made upo f
                                                                   multi-sector specialists will support the
                                                                   implementation o f activities.

Lack o f commitment o f local communities               M          Comprehensive integrated ecosystem
to uphold regimes and charters for                                 managementregimes andintercommunity
integrated ecosystemmanagementand                                  charters will be prepared under the project
joint managemento fprotected areas                                 through a highlyparticipatory approach and
                                                                   mechanisms will be establishedfor ongoing
                                                                   stakeholder consultation. Strategies will be
                                                                   designed under these regimes to promote
                                                                   revenue generationandnew employment
                                                                   opportunities throughout the project area.
Overall Risk Rating                                      M
3sk Rating- H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRi I, M (Modest Risk), t Negligibleor Low Risk)
M


                                                       - 36 -

3. PossibleControversialAspects:



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
    The conditions o f effectivenessof the GEF grant will be:

    0    The Project Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Financialand Accounting
         andthe Project Monitoring andEvaluationManualhave beenadopted, all inform andsubstance
         satisfactory to the Bank ;

    0    A financial managementandaccounting systemacceptableto the Bankhasbeen installed;

    0    The Project Account has beenopenedandthe initial contributionofFCFA 100 millionhas been
         depositedinit;

    0    The PROADEL ImplementationArrdtC (Arr2te'No. 008/MATUWSG/03 dated October 14,2003)
         has been amendedto reflect the recruitment o f the personnel necessary for the implementation of
         the GEF Project.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]



H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
         o fproject implementation.
IXI 1.b) Not applicable.

[xi 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
3 3. The Project ImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfound to berealistic and of satisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):




                                                    - 37 -

  I. Compliance with Bank Policies
  B 1.Thisproject complieswith allapplicableBankpolicies.
                                                                               u,
  i?2.The followingexceptions    to Balk policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with,/
        all other applicable Bank policies.

                                                                                          0')

                                           d-9                                        ' I




.~
   Valerie Marie Helene Layrol   /-<&eph         B&-bwomoh                      Ali Khadr     -
  Team Leader                              Sector Manager                       Country Director




                                                    - 38 -

                                      Annex I:Project Design Summary
                         CHAD: Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
                                      Key Performance
                                          Indicators                                              Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:          iector Indicators:                                             rom Goal to Bank Mission)

Enhancing      non-oil   economic  0 Improved income o ftargeted     0National statistics        0 Political stability, for the
opportunities    while   reducing    ruralbeneficiaries;                                           development and successful
sources o fvulnerability.                                             UpdatedCAS                   execution of the strategieso f
                                   0 Increasedcapacity for                                         the sectors andthe
                                     environmental management        0Legislation pertaining to    continuation o f
                                     and compliance to related        environmentalmanagement      decentralizationand local
                                     safeguards at national and       and decentralization.        democratization
                                     regional levels;
                                                                     0PRSPsurveys
                                   0 Increaseo f agricultural
                                     productivity o f land (inthe    0Reporton the monitoringof
                                     project areas).                  rural sector



GEF Operational Program:         3utcome I Impact
                                 #ndicators:

To achieve multipleand local,      0  Improved stability and
national, and global benefitsby       functioning o f critical,
promoting the widespread              globally significant
adoption o f farming and resource     ecosystemstargetedby the
exploitation practices that           project;
integrate ecological, economic
and social goals (OP 12)           0  Interest o f communities anc
                                      other actors not directly
                                      involved inPhase 1 o f
                                      project to replicate and get
                                      involved inthe GEF
                                      activities.




                                                               - 39 -

                                       Key Performance                2ata Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                    Indicators                                                 Critical Assumptions
                                    3utcomeI Impact                   roject reports:                P
                                                                                                     komObjectiveto Goal)
                                    ndicators:

The GEF project's development        0 Nbhectaresprotected               Participatory monitoring by ibsence o f major environmental
objective is to restore some of the    against deforestation, land        communities                lisaster(s)
Recipient's       most      fragile    degradation, andbushfires.
ecosystems by enabling local                                              Supervision missions       idequatepolitical and budgetary
communities      to   better  fight  0  At least 50 villages inthe                                   upport to the decentralization
desertification,        rehabilitate    Moundouwoodfuel supply            RuralDevelopment Sector    .genda
degraded     lands    and   protecl     basin sustainably manage          MonitoringUnit reports
biodiversity.                           their wood resources.                                        iufficient number andbroad
                                                                          Report ofthe PRSPI        lase o f communities profit from
                                     0  Levelo f endangerment o f         Poverty MonitoringSystem heproject inteventions to have a
                                        endemic mammals, birds                                       naterially significant impact at
                                        and plant species reduced                                    xosystem level
                                        by at least one category in
                                        GEF priority zones (flora,        Fuelwood and charcoal      rargetedpopulation actively
                                        fauna to be determined in         usage statistics and AEDE  :ooperates on environmental
                                        baselinediagnostics and           reports                    :oncems
                                        surveys, site-specific M&E
                                        plans).

                                      0  Durable environmental            ECOSIT householdsurvey     <ey national andlocal
                                         monitoring and data              andregular censuses        ;takeholdas are effectively
                                         management systems for                                      sensitizedto the positive links
                                         the rural sector.                Beneficiaq-assessment      3etween conservation, natural
                                                                          andappraisalof             esource management, and local
                                      0  Incremental adoption o f         community satisfaction at  :ommunity development during
                                         soil fertility improvement       project closure            :he project
                                         and other sustainable
                                         agricultural techniques          Environmental studies and
                                         (e.g., direct seeding) in        biodiversity monitoring
                                         25% o f targeted areas.          surveys




                                                                 - 40 -

                                      Key Performance              Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                  Indicators                                                  Critical Assumptions
lutput from each                  Uput Indicators:                 'rojectreports:                  rom Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
.Financial  support for            0 By mid-term review, 45% o f    0 Supervision missions.          0Local administrations
,ommunity-based ecosystem            approved subprojects                                             demonstrate good will and
nanagement subprojects               (constituting at least 20      0 Midtermreview and final         capacity toward the local
                                     subprojects) have been           ICR.                            development mechanism.
hticipated results:                  completed;
                                                                    0 Interimproject monitoring      0Good coordination and total
                                                                      andevaluation reports.           synergy with the policies
 0  Financing mechanisms for       0 By end ofproject, 70% of                                          andsectorprojects.
    demand-drivencommunity           approved subprojects           0 Local Development Plans.
    based natural resource           (constituting at least 50                                       0 Strong cooperation o f
    management subprojects           subprojects) have been         0 Ecosystem Management             traditional and local
    that can achieve a positive      completed.                        Plans and Conventions.          authorities.
    global environmental impact
    when aggregatedare piloted                                      0  Minutes ofproject approval    0 Communities are interested
    andmainstreamed.                                                   decision committees.            inecosystemmanagement
                                                                                                       activities and are willing to
  0  Existenceo f a ready                                           0  Field missions.                 incorporate ecological
     pipeline o f community                                                                            considerations into
     conceived and vetted                                           0  External audit mission.         productive activities
     subprojects, eligible for
     funding under future oil                                       0  Environmental diagnostic,
     revenue-sharing plans                                             impact and assessment
                                                                       studies.


                                                                    0  Project M&Edatabase.

                                                                    0  External evaluations (e.g.
                                                                       GEF).


t. Capacity building for                                            0  Supervision missions.         0 Committees are constituted
ntegratedecosystem                                                                                     inatransparent and
nanagement                                                          0  Midterm review and final        democratic way.

4nticipated results:                                                   evaluation, ICR.
                                   0 By midterm review, 50                                           0 Localplanning process is
   0 Capacity built within local     training sessions or           0  Project monitoringand            effectively supported by the
     communities and civil           sensitization campaigns to        evaluation reports.              baseline projects.
     society inIEMprinciples         benefit community-based
     andplanningtools inorder        organizationshave been         0  Communication plan.              Absense o f major violent
     to address global               implemented at the                                                 conflict over the same
     environmental threats inthc     community level.               0  Training programs.               natural resourcesby
     context o f local                                                                                  stakeholders
     development and NRM            0 IEMbestpractice               0  Reportso ftraining
     challenges.                      guidelines have been             activities.
                                      finalized and are
  0  Priority training needs o f      disseminated to all targeted  0  Minutes o f departmental
     contractors and beneficiariec    communities.                     and localproject approval
    have been identified and                                           decision committees.
    met                             0 By end o fproject, at least
                                      25% o f LDPs intargeted       0  Participatory diagnostics ani
  0  Community associations,          zones specifically address        surveys.
     producers' organizations and     integratedecosystem
     marginalized groups are          management issues inthe       0  Training modules and tools
     enabled to actively engage       manner set forth in the          developed.
     inecosystemmanagement            PIM.



                                                               -41 -

     schemes                                                        0  Communicationsstrategy.
                                    0 By end o fproject, at least
                                      three ecosystem               0  Report o f the PIDR.                                         I

                                     management schemes have
                                      been conceived.                0 Updated IEMGuideline
                                                                       Document.


3. Support for an enabling          0B y midterm review, the           Supervision missions.       0 Government is willing to
environement for CBEM                draft decree onNational                                         implement decentralization.

Anticipated results:                 Fundfor Environment             0 Midtermreview and final
                                     related to Law 14PR dated         evaluation, ICR.            0 Politicalwill o f financial
   0  Conducive enabling             August 17, 1998, and the                                        partners to establish and
      environment for                draft Law concerning            0 Project monitoring and         implement a National Fund
      decentralizednatural           management o f forests and        evaluation reports.            for the Environment.
      resourcemanagement and         fauna have beenprepared.
      environmental governance.                                      0 Reports o ftraining         0  Sufficient recognition and
                                                                       activities.                    validation by autorities at
   0  Decentralization laws         0Bythe end o fthe Project,                                        local andnational level of
      reflect shared vision o f      decreeonNational Fund for       0 Minutes o f government         pilot community-based
      community-driven natural       Environment relatedto Law         deliberations.                 integratedecosystem
      resource management.           14IPR dated August 17,                                           management schemes
                                     1998, and the draft Law         0 Texts adopted andor
   0  Skills and enforcement         concerningmanagementof            proposed.
      capacity o f decentralized     forests and fauna havebeen
      line agents, particularly the  enacted or signed, as the       0 Workshop reports.
      Ministry of Water and          case may be.
      Environment,                                                   0 National, regional, and
      strengthened.                                                    local budgets.


   0  New partnerships and          0By the end ofthe Project,       0 Report o fthe PIDR.                                           I    `1
      financing mechanisms           the implementation ratio o f
      piloted for community          number o f training sessions,    0Laws on decentralization
      ecosystemmanagement            as planned by the P M U to        inventory.
                                     benefit the MEW reaches 60
                                     YO.                              0Official court transcripts
                                                                       concerningresource
                                                                       management cases.


                                                                      0Legal and technical studies


4. Management and monitoring
support

  0  The program is managed         0By end ofproject, 80% o f       0 Midterm review and final    0  Intersectoral and interproject
     effectively and efficiently in  the reports to be preparedby      ICR.                           collaboration.
      conformity with predefined     P M U under the Project
     procedures.                      M&EManualhavebeen              0 Financial management
                                      issued ina timely manner.        reports.                     0 Adequate leadership o f
                                                                                                       Scientific andTechnical
  0  Necessary information is                                                                         Advisory Committee and
      available, reliable, and      0 80% o f contracts signed by    0 Bank supervisionreports.       HighNational Committee on
     regularly disseminated to       the P M U have been                                              the Environment.
     the various stakeholders on      executed on time.              0 Program web site.
     time.                                                                                          0  Sufficient political will to
                                    0 By end ofproject, a            0 LocalDevelopment Plans.         implement a National
      GIS databases and other         feasibility study o f the                                        Observatoryfor Natural
      management information          National Observatory for         Project submissions and         ResourcesManagement.
      systems to monitor targeted    Natural Resources                 related documentation.
      ecosystems are developed.       Monitoringhas been
                                     performed and approved.         0 Beneficiary assessments.



                                                               - 42 -

0A shared tool and
 participatory methodologies  Well defined indicators        0Annual reports of the PIDR.
 to monitor community         relating to land degradation
 ecosystemmanagement and      and biodiversity
 rural natural resource       conservation are integrated
 management are available     into rural development
 at the national level        monitoring systemunder the
                              PIDR.




                                                       - 43 -

                                   Key Performance         lata CollectionStrategy
   Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                              Critical Assumptions
                                                                                                                  -
ProjectComponentsI             nputs: (budgetfor each      roject reports:                   'romComponentsto
~~




Sub-components:                :omponent)                                                    kltputs)

1.Financial support for        JS$ 2.5 million             1 Supervision reports.            0  Capacity building efforts
community basedintegrated                                                                       successfully translate IEM
ecosystem management                                       1Project status reports.             needs and related priotities
subprojects                                                                                     into majority o f local
                                                           1 GEF/Bank disbursement              developmentplans in
                                                             reports.                           targeted zones

2. Capacity building for       JS$ 1.6million               0 Supervision reports.            0 Human and material
integrated ecosystem                                                                            resources and
management                                                  0 Implementation status             communication
                                                              reports.                           infrastructures exist.


                                                            0 Disbursementreports             0  Elected local committees
                                                               (quarterly).                      are respected and competent
                                                                                                 enough to assist
                                                            0  Progress reports (quarterly).     beneficiaries

 3. Support for an enabling    JS$ 0.7 million               0  Supervision reports.          0  Decentralization agenda
 environment for CBIEM                                                                           successfully implemented
                                                             0  Project status reports.          andGovernment
                                                                                                 commitment to components
                                                             0  Projects ICR.                    objective remains strong.

  4. Management and monitoring JS$ 1.2 million              0  Project status reports.        0  Actors andrelevant
  support                                                                                        implementing agencies are
                                                            0  Disbursement reports              collaborating to provide
                                                               (quarterly).                      timely data.

                                                            0  Annual audits.                 0   Adequate and timely flow o
                                                                                                  counterpart funds
                                                            0  Projects ICR.


                                                            0  Supervision reports




                                                     - 4 4 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed ProjectDescription
                   CHAD: Community-BasedEcosystem ManagementProject

The following parts describe all components andrelated implementation arrangements.

By Component:

ProjectComponent 1    - US$2.50  million

   Financialsupport for communi@-basedecosystemmanagement subproiects

   Obiective

   The baseline projects will provide small grants to co-finance priority, demand-dnven subprojects that
   have been proposed by community-based organizations (associations, organizations, and others with
    legal status). Eligible projects must not be included on the negative list, must include some degree of
   beneficiary contributionbased on a slidingscale dependingon sector and sub-region (incash, labor, or
    materials), and must meet the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual. The
    GEF project will support subprojects implemented by communities that incentivize the realization of
    incremental global environmental benefits through the aggregation of a variety o f investments in
    ecosystem preservation and natural resouce management, including activities that support community
    participation in biodiversity protection and ecosystem management, based upon demand-driven
    principles. Eligibility will be restricted to activities that: (i) proposed inLocal Development Plans,
                                                                    are
    (ii)primarilylie withinor material impact the ecosystems or global environmental objectives within the
    GEF priority intervention zones and fit into the Ecosystem Management Schemes (to be developed
    under component 2), and (iii)represent genuinely "incremental" investments having a medium or
    long-term economic return and that manifest barriers to their immediate implementation by
    beneficiaries. The Project Implementation Manual includes specific guidelines for GEF co-financing
    eligibility, including a broad list o f archetypal activities. Some of the activites likely to be eligible
    include, inter alia: the reforestation and rehabilitation o f gallery forests; development o f grazing
    corridors; community co-management o f protected areas; introduction o f agro-forestry techques;
    development of local drought management plans and bushfre awareness and control programs; and
    pilots to demonstrate or disseminate more sustainable, alternative energy technologies and practices,
    such as more efficient cooking stoves. Special advantage will be given to project proposals that would
    simultaneously deliver incremental environmental and social benefits inseveral different areas.

    To avoid capture o f resources by elites, the project would ensure that every process (subproject
    identification, selection, and implementation) is participatory and management o f resources is
    transparent. To ensure sustainability of investments, beneficiary contributions would be mandatory,
    with local maintenance responsibility.       Two options are available regarding funds management: (i)
    direct management by beneficiary groups if they dispose o f sufficient capacities and the financial
    structures exist or (ii) direct payment o f enterprises and service providers by the PMU in case the
    above criteria are not satisifed. Participatory appraisal would be supported by Component 2. Decision
    and Approval Committees would be constituted to approve Local Development Plans and subprojects
    of communities. Subprojects would be approved by PROADEL Subprefectoral or Departmental
    Decision and Approval Committees, ASPOP Departmental Selection Committees, PRODABO
    Environmental Decision Committee or PRODALKA EnvironmentalDecision Committee, depending on
    the sites and/or the nature of the subprojects, as setout inthe Project Implementation Manual.



                                                       - 4 5 -

ProjectComponent2 US$1.60million
                      -

   Capacity buildingfor integratedecosvstemmanagement

   Obiective

   Under component 2 of the PROADEL, capacity buildingactivities across a wide spectrum of sectors
   will be provided to local communities and community associations, Subprefectoral and Departmental
   Decision and Approval Committees, and service providers (training institutions, NGOs, microfinance
   institutions) to strengthen their technical and organizational capacities for participatory approaches,
   needs assessments, project management, access to credit, and new poverty reduction behaviors. GEF
    grant funding will support technical assistance, awareness raising, and capacity building support
    services to local communities to integrate environmental concems and EM principles into local
    development planning. Capacity building activities will proceed ina two-tiered strategy. At one level,
    collaboration between key stakeholders will be built to pursue IEM priorities at larger spatial scales
    and ecosystems. Through sensitization programs and participatory diagnosis and monitoring of
    ecoystems, communities will have input into the design o f diagnostic, GIS mapping, and other scientific
    studies concerning ecosystem rehabilitation and management. Capacity buildingwill also be provided
    to assist local actors to develop intra-community charters or conventions regarding joint natural
    resource management, and to identify beneficial micro-projects that could be implemented at both the
    community and communal level. On another level, support will be extended directly to communities
    and technical service agencies for training and pilot programs that build capacity and know-how,
    particuarly among riparian communities in priority intervention areas. Such capacity building and
    technical assistance would focus on the design and implementation of natural resource management
    strategies within a coordinated IEM framework, including actions to co-manage protected areas and
    buffer zones, thereby conserving the uniqueindigenous biodiversity therein.

    The component has two subcomponents:

    Subcomuonent 2.1:Integrated Ecosystem Management Schemes (US$0.83 MI

    The GEF grant will advance community participation in ecosystem management through the
    elaboration o f sustainable, long-term ecosystem management schemes in targeted priority zones. T h ~ s
    will include bindingcharters or conventions between riparian communities that codify their intent to
    cooperate and co-manage fragile ecosystems in partnership with local government, traditional local
    authorities, and decentralized agents o f the state such as the MEW. For example, facilitation and
    technical assistance will be extendedto communities to help co-manage protected areas and their buffer
    zones, including the Binder-LCrC Wildlife Reserve in the region o f Mayo-Kebbi and the Mandelia
    Wildlife Reserve in the outskirts o f Ndjamena. Support in each o f the GEF priority intervention zones
    will include the realization o f a participatory diagnostic and complementary technical studies and GIS
    mapping (undertaken by different service providers such as research universities, NGOs, etc.) to
    identify the opportunities and constraints to IEM, as well as the key stakeholders impacted and the
    potential benefits associated with restoration and conservation of natural resources. These activities
    will incorporate indigenous knowledge and participation o f community leaders. Through this exercise,
    communities will be supported in identifyingtheir natural, social, andhuman capital to undertake IEM
    and to develop a strategy to address the primary threats and barriers to the amelioration of ecosystem



                                                     - 46 -

   functioning. These efforts will be supported by a training and communication strategy as well as
   workshops to promote participation and active involvement o f key stakeholders andbeneficiaries.

   Subcomponent 2.2: Traininp o f actors KJS$0.77 MI

   Training activities relate not only to supporting beneficiaries through each o f the steps inthe realization
   of community-based IEMschemes at the local level as outlined above, but also to the training of other
   actors at the national level, such as service providers, NGOs, and public entities. This capacity
   building encompasses the elaboration o f training modules and programs, national workshops, study
   tours, surveys. Under a "train the trainers" model, an "IEM Guideline Document'' will be disseminated
   as a capacity building tool for consolidating approaches in local development planning.            Specific
   training related to ecosystem management will be elaborated, such that the conceptualization o f
   subprojects (i.e. those aimed at reducing soil erosion, maintaining forest cover, promoting local
   tourism) can address biodiversity conservation and broader ecosystem challenges, such as watershed
   management. In rural areas in the outslurts o f Moundou, capacity building will emphasize the
   promotion of more sustainable household energy alternatives. Inpastoral areas, capacity-building will
   focus inparticular on sustainable management o f land use, basedon previous experiences inChad. In
   addition to these activities, scientific and technical capacity will be built in biosphere reserve
   management.

   This subcomponent would be executedby NGOs and other service providers. Women, young people,
   transhumant herders, and other underprivileged groups would be targeted to ensure that (i)     they receive
   their share o f benefits from the project activities and that (ii)
                                                                    they are able to participate effectively in
   the decisions affecting the project andthe development oftheir community. The participatory approach
   would have to be adapted to the local context. Inparticular, techniques would have to be different in
   pastoral areas, where most of the population is nomadic. Training would be conducted primarily in
   local languages and would emphasize a learning-by-doing approach. Additional details on targeted
   beneficiaries, training topics and modules envisioned, and existing competencies o f existing service
   proviers are elaborated inthe project Training Plan.



Project Component 3 US$0.70 million
                      -

    Supportfor an enablingenvironmentfor communi@-basedecosvstemmanagement

   Obiective

   The objective of component 3 of the PROADEL is to assist the Government o f Chad inthe effective
   implementation o f its decentralization policy. GEF incremental activities will complement t h s effort by
   creating a better enabling environment and strengthening national capacity for decentralized
    environmental governance and community based integrated ecosystem management. The vision is to
    create a framework for sustaining the outcomes o f the Project and expanding its reach to the entire
   territory over time, specifically through the adoption and application o f legislation and other
   mechanisms promotingan equitable and durable transfer o f resourcesand competences to communities
    for natural resourcemanagement.. T h ~ component is based on the analysis o f the legislations made by
                                             s
   several documents o f policy (NEAP, UNCCD NAP, the White Paper on the environment) whch
   highlightseveralgaps which limit the full participation o f the communities inthe management of their
   environment. The project will be interested more particularly. It will also be interested to create a



                                                     -47-

context favorable for a durable financing o f installations of ecosystemsundertaken by the communities.
This Component is subdivided in three under-components; Improvement of the legal framework;
institutional support; Sustainablefinancing.

This component has three subcomponents:

SubcomDonent3.1.: Improvement of the legal and regulatory framework fLJSs60.23 I@

This would consist of analytical support to establish a sound legal and regulatory framework for
community participation in environmental management andjoint management o f protected areas. The
NEAP, UNCCD NAP, and the Ministry of Environment's W t e Paper identify several gaps in the
existing framework, including a failure of many sigtllficant environmental management laws to take
into account the decentralization process. Some o f the more ugent priorities are to support the
application o f the Law 16 on forestry, fauna and fisheries, its extension on the taxation o f forest
resources to the other cities o f the country, and the finalization o f the decrees o f Law 14/98 defining
environmental protection principles. The project will also assist in the validation, awareness raising,
and support for campaigns to advocate for these reforms by and among communities. Secondanly, the
project would address land tenure laws through assistance to communities, particularly in areas that
affect nomadic pastoralism andworkable modalities for joint management o f selectedprotected areas.

Subcomponent 3.2.: Institutionalsupport WS$0.28 M)

Under the baseline projects, a number of general activities to support the decentralization process will
take place. The GEF project will support transfer of natural resource management responsibilities.
Various studies would be carried out on the roles and responsibilities of decentralized authorities with
respect to the management o f natural resources and protected areas. Support would be extended to
better identify capacity needs and fiscal reforms necessary to implement the legal and regulatory
reforms advanced in subcomponent 3.1, particularly among the relevant line ministries. As with
subcomponent.3.1, advocacy campaigns to effect more decentralized inenvironmental governance and
the validation by communities o f selected reform measures would be supported on a demand-driven
basis. In addition, under this sub-component, logistical and equipment support, specialized training
and workshop, and other assistanceof a technical nature will be provided to agents of the Ministryof
Environment and Water at the central level but also essentially at the decentralized level, primarily in
the GEFpriority zones, to improve local skills andmonitoring andenforcement powers.

Subcomponent 3.3.: Sustainable Financing (US$O. 19 M')

This subcomponent will thrust at activities designed to promote partnerships between communities and
external sources o f financing outside o f the GEF to sustain ecosystem management schemes. Sources
o f financing to be targeted include: (i)private sector partnerships for income-generation activities (e.g.
ecotourism); (ii) budget and those o f intra-community organizations; (iii) revenues from forest
                  state                                                           tax
products and other natural resources, such as fisheries; (iv) international foundations and NGOs; (v)
national funds planned for environmental and natural resource management (vi) decentralized
co-operation (vii) carbon finance and payments for environmental services. The project will prioritize
the following activities under this envelope:

0     Support the Government with the definition and implementation o f a National Fund for the
      Environnment, in particular the establishment o f synergies with the financing o f subprojects that
      address landmanagement andbiodiversity conservation.


                                                 - 48 -

  e      The development o f a ffamework for community parntershps that could assist communities to
         identify long-term co-financing of ecosystem management activities, enhance cooperation with
         international foundations and NGOs, manage their legal and financial interests vis a vis potential
         international partners and private companies, and design pilot projects eligible for international
         investment under emergmg environmental market schemes, such as carbon finance (e.g.,
         sequestration o f carbon through community reforestation andagroforestry).

Project Component4 US$1.20 million
                       -

   Management and monitoringsupport

   Obiective

    The objective o f this component is to ensure for the efficient management o f the project and the
    implementation o f an effective systemo f monitoring and evaluation. This component has also seeks to
   putinplace at the nationlevelsystems to monitor community ecosystemmanagement. The projectwill
    dispose o f a separate but complementary database to the PROADEL andgenerate its own GIS maps. It
    is subdivided inthree under-components.

    Subcomuonent 4.1.: Support to proiect management (US$l.05 MI

    Day-to-day management of project activities would be assured by the PMU o f the PROADEL.
    Additional staff have been or would be recruitedby the Ministryo f Land Management, Urbanism, and
    Habitat: a GEF specialist, an assistant inmonitoring andevaluationand a GEF accountant. The PMU's
    responsibilities would be to: (i)  coordinate overall implementation o f the project, (ii) project
                                                                                               manage
    activities implemented at the national level and assist in coordination o f activities inthe priority zones,
    (iii) theavailabilityoffunds,(iv)ensureprocurementofallgoodsandservices;(v)maintainthe
         ensure
    books and the accounts of project activities and produce financial reports, (vi) monitor and evaluate
    implementationo f the work program and its impact, (vii) report results to stakeholders (administration,
    donors, civil society, projects, Decision Committees), and (viii) provide technical assistance to local
    project implementation units. The project would finance (i)         training to strengthen the staff, (ii)
    equipment and vehicles; (iii)financial and technical audits, and (iv) mformation campaigns and
    communications. Additional details are elaborated in the Project Implementation Manual. A financial
    audit o f the project's GEF activities would be conducted by an external independent consulting firm at
    the end o f the project to assess its results, its strengths and weaknesses and give some guidance on
    replicability and for the design o fthe secondphase.

    Subcomponent 4.2.: Support toproject monitoring and evaluation (US$O.07M)

    This subcomponent will finance the monitoring and evaluation of the project's impacts as well as the
    outcomes of its investments in community based ecosystem management projects. Stakeholders at
    every level would be involved in gathering, processing, analyzing, storing, and disseminating the
    information required for transparent and efficient decisionmaking, as well as for sound financial and
    technical monitoring o f activities. A unique logfiame and target indicators will be developed for each
    o f the GEF priority zones given the diversity o f ecosystem and socio-economic challenges and global
    objectives. This will be validated by local authorities, traditional authorities, andriparian communities.
    Target indicators could include: increase inwater for pasture andwild fauna, increaseinhectaresunder
    effective protection; number of hectares under active reforestation. Ecosystem quality improvements


                                                     -49 -

will be measuredby data collected by communities, assistedby service providers, and integrated into
decentralized monitoring systems and the rural sector monitoring database. Impacts andresults would
be assessedthrough a technical evaluation of the project to be conducted by an independent consulting
firm at the end of the project (some evaluation design work will also occur at the beginning of the
project). The report would provide guidance on lessonslearned, replicability, expansion, andthe design
o f a possible second phase. A Project Monitoring and EvaluationManual has been developed to guide
information collection and assessment. Censuseswould be conducted regularlyto monitor the impact o f
the project, and a beneficiary assessment would be completed at the end o f the project. Some data
would be regularlyprovided by other monitoring systems, such as the Poverty Monitoring System and
the Rural Sector Monitoring System. Details are provided in the Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Manual.

Subcomponent4.3.: Monitoring of ecosystem management at the national level (US$0.08 M)

The vision o f catalyzing a national scale-up o f community based ecosystem management through the
GEF project will require efforts to centralize information and to create durable systems for
following-up data collection and analysis. The project will: (i) expand the scope and national coverage
o f environmental management information systems, particularly as they relate to rural natural resource
managemnet; (ii)refine the methodologes and tools used for community based monitoring of
ecosystem quality trends (including the creation o f a Geographc Information System databases; and
(iii)proposing a set o f quantitative indicators to benchmark improvements with respect to the project's
global environmental objectives, (e.g., biodiversity conservation and land management). While Chad
disposes o f some GIS databases, and other specialized agencies and development projects also have
information relevant to natural resource management, this information is not available in one
consolidated form or location. One o f the objectives o f this subcomponent is to develop methodologes
andeffective systems to integrate parameters onbiodiversity conservation and soil degradation into the
Rural Development Monitoring Plan, building upon existing environmental and biodiversity data
compiled under the NEAP and Regonal Environmental Information Management Program (REIMP).
Currently the PIDR lacks indicators specific to ecosystemmanagement (e.g., hectares o f degradedland
and protected areas, number o f communities that are implementing forestry management schemes,
number of watersheds under active management or rehabilitation, quality and increase in grazing
corridors). The GEF project will support a feasibility study for a National Observatory o f Natural
Resources, which could be charged with the collection, analysis, harmonization, and diffusion o f
information on the state o f Chad's ecosystems and natural resources to both national and information
stakeholders. Such an observation system could be usedas an early warning tool for climatic and other
threats to the natural resource base. The MEE will be entrusted to ensure sustainability o f data
collectionthrough the HighNational Committee on the Environment.




                                                  - 50 -

                                          Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                     CHAD: Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project

                                                                                              Local              Foreign                  Total
                       Project Cost By Component                                           US $million         US $million           US $million
Financial support for CBIEM subprojects                                                        2.50                  0.00                    2.50
Capacity Building for integrated ecosystem management                                          1.10                  0.50                    1.60
Support for an enabling environmentfor CBIEM                                                   0.50                  0.20                    0.70
Management and monitoring support                                                              0.80                  0.40                    1.20
Total Baseline Cost                                                                            4.90                  1.10                    6.00
PhysicalContingencies                                                                          0.00                  0.00                    0.00
PriceContingencies                                                                      I      0.00                  0.00                    0.00
                                        Total ProjectCostsI                                    4.90                  1.10                    6.00
                                Total Financing Required                                       4.90                   1.10                   6.00

                                                                                              Local              Foreign                   Total
                         Project Cost By Category                                           US $million        US $million           US $million
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials                                                                0.00                    0.30                    0.30
Services,Audits and Studies                                                                      0.90                    0.50                    1.40
Training                                                                                         0.60                    0.30                    0.90
Grantsfor sub-projects                                                                           2.50                    0.00                    2.50
Operating Costs                                                                                  0.60                    0.00                    0.60
Unallocated                                                                                      0.30                    0.00                    0.30
                                                       Total Project Costs1                      4.90                    1.10                    6.00
                                              Total Financing Required                           4.90                    1.10                    6.00

  1
   Identifiabletaxes and duties are 0 (US$m)andthe total projectcost, netof taxes, IS 94.45 (US%m).Therefore,the projectcost sharingratio is 48 45% of
  total projectcost net oftaxes.




                                                                  -51    -

                             Annex 4 IncrementalCost Analysis
             CHAD: Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
Context

Chad's national and rural development priorities strongly emphasize an imperative to ensure for the
long-term health and productivity o f the country's natural resource base. The Government o f Chad
recognizes that this goal is more llkely to be acheved through direct participationo f local communities
in the monitoring and management of ecological processes at larger geographical scales, as well as
through micro-investments that can generate broad, multiple benefits to diverse stakeholders. The
Government strongly supports policies and investments that can strengthen conservation and
environmental protection, advance its decentralization agenda, and effectively integrate sustainable
development and natural resource management principles into local, regional, and national planning.
To illustrate this commitment, the key environmental strategies recently elaborated by the Government
recognize that in order for conservation and environmental protection efforts to be sustainable, rights
and responsibilities over land and other natural resources must be devolved to the lowest appropriate
level. While the value of a community-based integrated ecosystem management approach to address
Chad's key environmental threats, particularly loss of biodiversity and land degradation, is recognized,
a number o f barriers have precluded the ability to translate this strategic vision into action. These
barriers include:

e   Limited funding mechanisms. Untilthe advent of the PROADEL, it was impossible to implement
    a participatory, community-based ecosystem management program with almost full national
    geographical coverage, in part because financing for rural communities to undertake activities
    whose aggregation could quickly achieve a positive global environmental impact has been scarce.
    The few decentralized development programprecedentsto the proposedproject that have occurred
    either were limited ingeographical scope, or didnot directly address environmental issues.

e   Lack of technical knowledge and capacity of local communities. While climatic and
    demographic factors are among the root causes o f desertification and biodiversity loss, lack o f
    appropriate natural resources management skills confounds the situation and is most immediately
    open to improvement. Available techniques for reducing soil erosion, improving soil fertility, and
    managmg forests and woodfuels sustainably could be used widely given adequate support for
    capacity building. Such techniques would also have a positive impact on reducing carbon
     emissions. The capacity o f local communities to co-manage their natural resourcesandecosystems,
    particularly protected areas andbufferzones, is very limited.

e   Weaknesses in the legal framework and capacity for decentralized environmental governance.
    The range o f environmental challenges impeding Chad's sustainable economic development are
    intimately connected to weak local governance structures, particularly in the domain o f natural
    resources management. While the Government o f Chad supports policies that integrate natural
    resource management into decentralized structures andplans, the process o f decentralization i s still
     inits early stages. Weak decentralized naturalresourcesmanagement capacity inpoverty-stricken
     areas aggravates existing human migration pressures that can be destabilizing and contributes to
     conflict over land use, particularly between agncultural activities and existing wildlife and
    protected areas. One of the principal constraints to the protection of Chadian ecosystems includes
    weak capacity for monitoring and enforcement o f the protection o f protected areas, including lack
     o f equipment o f personnel o f the Ministry of Environment and Water. Training on the role of
     decentralized agents of the Ministry and traditional authorities inthe management o f ecosystems is



                                                 - 52 -

    minimal, and there are few means to undertake surveys and inventories o f indigenous species and
    other natural assets. Weak decentralized natural resources management capacity in
    poverty-stricken areas aggravates existing human migration pressures that can be destabilizing.
    Weak decentralized environmental govemance has contributed to a rise in conflict over land use,
    particularly between demand for agricultural activities and existing wildlife and protected areas.
    Likewise, weaknesses inthe legal framework discourage participatory environmental management
    schemes.

    Limited analytical and information basis for long-term monitoring of environmental issues.
    Exacerbating this is the limited informationbasis for long-termmonitoring o f environmental trends,
    particularly in the rural space. Only basic data on protected areas is available, while wildlife
    censuses inmany areas are often more than 25 years old. Most decisions on land management are
    made without sufficient information, as only limited scientific monitoring o f desertification is
    takingplace, leading to poor resource rationalization.

    Need to develop innovative and more holistic approaches in the context of rural poverty
    reduction. The transition to the oil era should bring major revenues to the economy. As the
    underlyingbasis and outlook for growth in Chad continues to improve, it becomes more critical
    that conservation and sound natural resource use frameworks be integrated more effectively into
    local development planning. Adopting these at an early stage o f development may be pivotal to
    precluding irreversible environmental damage, such as soil erosion and groundwater degradation.
    The interconnected mix o f environmental and socio-economic threats to the preservation of Chad's
    globally significant environmental assets demands holistic approaches that balance the ecological,
    economic, social, and financial needs o f communities and the imperative o f poverty reduction.
    These approacheshave heretofore beenlimited or lacking.

Proiect Overview


Lying at the convergence of four major continental ecological zones (i.e., the West African Sahara, the
Sahel, the Sudanian zone, and the Central African Forest), Chad's ecosystems are globally significant.
They serve as permanent habitats, safe migration harbors, and assimilation zones for a multitude of
unique, threatened species from across the African Continent (e.g., large mammals and reptiles,
migratory birds, fish, and unique desert, savanna, and forest vegetation formations). Likewise, the
Logone-Chari river system emptying into Lake Chad is a watercourse o f great global and regional
importance.

T h ~ sfour-year GEF funded project, to be implemented in parallel with the first phase o f the Local
Development Support Program Project (PROADEL), has been conceived to remove the financial,
institutional, and knowledge baniers to achieving the             Government's    strategic vision for
environmentally sustainable rural development. The project has four components: (i)    financial support
for community based ecosystem management subprojects, (ii)capacity building for integrated
ecosystem management, (iii)support for an enabling environment for community-based ecosystem
management, (iv) management andmonitoring support.
Inline with the strategc priorities ofthe GEF OP #12, the global environmental objective of the GEF
alternative project is to promote community-based integratedecosystemmanagement o f targeted fragile
ecosystemsinthe framework o f sustainable rural development inChad, thus combating desertification
and preservingbiodiversity while fostering multiple global environmental benefits. Interventions will
address multiple GEF focal areas, prioritizing biodiversity conservation and sustainable land


                                               - 53 -

management, whle promoting (and introducing, inmany cases) holistic and cross-sectoral approaches
to environmental management. The activities thus aim to better enable local communities to combat
desertification, preserve biodiversity, and maintain the productivity o f their natural assets through the
introductiono f community-dnven, integrated environmental managementprinciples andplanning.

The GEF project will proceed in tandem with and complement all of the four components of the
PROADEL, as well as selectedaspects o f other baseline projects under the umbrella framework o f the
Rural Development Support Program (PIDR), and which are being co-financed by IDA, AFD, andthe
German Cooperation. At the simplest level of analysis, the baseline scenario represents the likely
impacts that would result from the timely and steady implementation o f the PIDR and the outcomes
associated with interventions directly or indirectly intended to enhance natural resource management.
The baseline can therefore be constructed by examining the intended impacts of implementing the
PROADEL, ASPOP, PRODALKA and PRODABO programs. The incremental cost for technical
assistance, investments, and capacity building associated with the project objectives are identified by
comparing the baseline scenario o f the projects under the PIDR, including the PROADEL, and the
alternative scenarios enabled by the additional GEF resources and co-financing by the Goverment of
Chad and local beneficiaries.

Baseline Scenario

The PIDR is a framework for a number o f complementary programs and projects to support the
Government's objectives in the agricultural and rural development sectors, namely to increase
production in a sustainable way that preserves the environment while reinforcing institutional and
human capacities. The commonality between these operations, beyond their focus on rural
development, lies inthe fact that they place communities inthe dnvingseat and emphasize the need for
capacity building among both beneficiaries and decentralized technical agents. The main programs
under the PIDR included in the baseline scenario are: the PROADEL, ASPOP, PRODALKA and
PRODABO programs. A brief summary of their ojectives and likely impacts on the environment inthe
GEFproject's interventionareas follows:

(i) PROADEL

PROADEL is a 12-year APL that will assist the Government o f Chad indesigning and implementing a
decentralized, participatory financing mechanism that aims at empowering rural communities and
decentralized institutions to manage development finds ina transparent way andaccordmg to their own
priorities. The project became effective inMarch 2005 and will progressively cover 19 departments in
Chad, building on previous community development pilots. PROADEL will help the Government
 develop a coherent regulatory framework for the decentralization process and a master plan for its
 implementation. The project will also pilot activities on land tenure, pastoralism and water resource
management in order to identify solutions that may be implementedin subsequent phases. PROADEL
has four components:

e    Financial supportfor local developmentsubprojectsinitiated by local communities. The project
     would provide matchmg grants to co-finance subprojects proposed by community-based
     organizations or decentralized local government entities. Eligibleactivities include: (i)  small social
     activities such as bridges, classrooms, health clinics, HIV/AIDS prevention and information,
     personnel training, and wells, etc.; (ii) large-scale and more expensive collective infrastructure
     projects that would affect several villages or cantons, such as drilling, rural roads, and water
     supply systems, etc.; and (iii) resources management activities, such as tree nurseries and
                                     natural


                                                - 54 -

     forestry management, etc.

     Capacity building of local development stakeholders for communities. The project would
     strengthen the technical and organizational capacity at the community level for participatory
     approaches, needs assessments, subproject management and implementation. It would support
     theminthe preparation of development plans andsubprojectsrequests.

     Supportfor decentralizationprocess. The project would support the Government in completing
     legal and regulatory decentralization frameworks,          and strengthen the capacities of key
     stakeholders of the decentralization process at national, regional and local levels, and improve the
     landtenure system; and


     Project Management and M&E o fprogram activities and impact.


(ii) ASPOP


ASPOP is a four year, IDA-financed project with progressive national coverage that started in May
2004. Its objective is to increase rural income and reduce poverty in rural areas, while preserving the
natural resource base. ASPOP has three components: (i)promotion o f sustainable growth in
agricultural production, (ii)  capacity building for agricultural services and producer's organizations,
and (iii) support to project management. Four sub-components are particularly germane in terms o f
their potential impact on Chad's ecosystemsandthe realizationo f global environmental benefits:


     Productive infrastructure.Under component 1(a), a number o f investments in productive
     infrastructure will be made in the agricultural sector, based on the demand of local producers
     organizations.   These    include:   (i)small-scale water management schemes,              such as
     hydro-agncultural retention pools, ponds, hillside water retention structures, pastoral wells,
     micro-irrigation and drainage, and dams, (ii) and water-resources conservation infrastructures
                                                   soil-
     that would allow surface and underground water channeling for agncultural and livestock
     purposes; (iii)  small store systems and rural veterinary facilities. Some of these may have a
     materially postive impact on local ecosystemquality.

     Agricultural development. Also under component 1(a), capacity building activities will target
     improved sustainability o f agricultural cultivation practices, primarily in the cotton sector. These
     include improvement o f fanning systems and development o f conservation farming techniques to
     preserve soil fertility such as alley cropping, contour ridge terracing, cover crops, and living
     fences. In addition, demand-dnven extension and training activities including crop diversification
     andthe establishment of seedandplant nurseries will be supported.

     Strengthening public agents. Under component 2(d), the capacities o f civil servants at the
     national and subnational levels inthe technical ministries linkedto rural development (Ministry o f
     Agnculture, Ministry o f Livestock, and Ministry o f Environment and Water) will be strengthened.
      Specifically, the project would provide technical assistance, training, and equipment to the line
     ministries to enhance capacities in: (i) budgetary and financial management o f rural investment
     programs; (ii)  environmental management, particularly in the MEE to monitor potential negative
     impacts o f productive investments on natural resources in the agncultural sector; and (iii)


                                                - 55 -

     undertaking targeted research on thematic issues, such as constraints to the intensification,
     diversification and sustainability o f agricultural productionsystems.


0    Project management and monitoring systems. Under component 3, the monitoring and evaluation
     capacity o f projects and programs in the rural sphere will be strengthened by supporting the rural
     sector's monitoring and evaluation system, (i.e. long-term monitoring by a permanent unit o f the
     developments of impacts o f agriculture and relevant rural development activities, and inparticular,
     the effect onpoverty ofPIDRinteventions).

(iii) PRODABO

The Decentralized Rural Development Program of D'Assongha-Biltine-Ouara(PRODABO) i s a joint
GTZ/KfW/DED financed program and one of the main donor-funded projects in support of the
implementation of the Government o f Chad's Rural Development Plan (PIDR). PRODABO activities
cover the Departments of Ouara, Assoungha, Djouf Al-Ahmar (Ouaddai Region), and Biltine (Wadi
Fira Region), areas that have over the last two years been coping with a large influx o f refugees from
the Darfur region of the Sudan. PRODABO is organized along five components: (i)          financial support
to rural development investments, particularly rural infrastructure priorities; (ii)natural resource
management and ecosystem management of the Ouadis; (iii)          support for the decentralization process;
(iv) support for local developing planning; and (v) support for the management of socio-economic
infrastructures. Ingeneral, the zone has been subjected to a general process o f degradation, including
very strong erosion and loss of vegetative cover and woody biomass, even inthe absence of slopes or
large rough surfaces. The second component of the project is strongly focused on rehabilitating the
watershed systems, building upon the experience o f the previous phase of the program, whose
interventions lied mainly in and around the city o f AbCcht. Specifically, the project targets protection
of 65 watersheds, 40,000 hectares o f arable lands, and the restoration o f 2,200 hectares for farming
and tree crops.


(iv) PRODALKA


The Decentralized Rural Development Program of Mayo-Dallah, Lac Ltrt and Kabia (PRODALKA),
a four year GTZ/KfW/DED-financed project, commenced in August 2004.                   The program is a
follow-on to PCGRN activities. The objective of the program is to reduce poverty and improve the
livelihood conditions o f rural population. PRODALKA has the following components: (i)                Rural
development sector coordination; (ii)Financial support to rural development investments and
co-financing o f community infrastructures; (iii)     Decentralization and local planning support through
capacity buildingo f decentralized authorities, outreach campaigns on decentralization andtraining. (iv)
Support to sustainable agriculture. The project will support the promotion o f innovative agricultural
techniques to reduce soil degradation and loss of fertility. It would especially focus on techniques
adaptedto local ecologicalconditions. (v) community-based naturalresourcesmanagement and support
to communities inparticipatory local planning intargeted areas. The project supports strengthening the
capacity of local stakeholders insustainable management o f natural resources, at the village level and
also at the inter-village level for protected areas management. InLac Lere, the program has helped to
establish Local Authorities Decision Committees (ILODs) to ensure stock management o f piscicultural
species, and monitoring of biodiversity and prevention o f bush fires in the Yamba-Bert6 Forest
Reserve.




                                                    - 56 -

While each o f the PIDR operations will potentially have an indirect impact on the environment,
depending on the percentage of investment funds dedicated to environmental subprojects, the way
environmental concerns are integrated into the elaboration o f local development planning,andthe depth
o f local capacity built in environmental management, it is unlikely that in absense o f the Project
signicant national, local, and global environmetnal benefits would accrue from them. Given Chad's
multiple environmental challenges, andthe fact that for most o f the population, meetingbasic needs is a
more urgent priority, it i s unlikely that a purelydemand-driven approach would result ina critical mass
o f subprojects directly related to natural resources and sustainable landmanagement whch can effect
measurable environmental benefits. As a result, Chad's unique, globally important ecosystems would
continue to undergo serious and potentially irreversible degradation, stemming from the poor
management o f water resources, the progressive depletion and declining fertility of agricultural soils,
the extensification o f agricultural production, and the encroachment o f human settlements on natural
habitats. Moreover, since the baseline projects would not have a material impact on improving the
management o f protected areas in the country, under the business as usual scenario, most of Chad's
critical ecosystems would continue to remain under weak and ineffective protection due to a lack o f
resources and strong community buy-in. Thus, it is likely that the threatened biodiversity in those
critical ecosystems,particularly inthe GEF priority zones, would become more critically endangeredor
even approach extinction. And while the baseline projects will introduce andpromote more sustainable
farming techniques and assist some communities with small infrastructure complementary to the GEF
project's objectives (e.g., pastoral waterpoints), their sustainability would be questionable in the
absense o f greater investments in community based capacity building and pilots, particularly in
improved sustainable land management and agro-pastoral conservation. Finally, while several national
strategies and plans (i.e. on rural development, biodiversity, NEAP) promote strong involvement o f
communities in natural resource management, and new decentralization laws give communities the
opportunity to group themselves around issues such as ecosystem management, and to elaborate
intercommunity agreements or charters, insufficient capacity would be built under the baseline
programs for a large cross-section o f Chadian communities to develop community-based ecosystem
managementschemes.

GEF alternativedescription

Integration of GEF incremental activities into the PROADEL will improve the design o f all four
PROADEL components, whle complementing certain components of the other projects under the
PIDR, namely ASPOP andGerman Cooperation-Financed PRODALKA and PRODABO programs. In
t h s way, the project will provide a coherent framework under which a range o f interventions and
collaborations can be coordinated, advancing the Government's key strategies and realizing local as
well as national and global environmental benefits. GEF incremental activities will help restore the
functioning o f Chad's major ecosystems and facilitate the development o f community-based ecosystem
managment plans in five priority zones across the country; the majority o f these comprise significant
protected areas in whch lie threatened species o f global significance. As result o f these new
management schemes, awareness buildingprograms with riparian communities, and the provision o f
training and material support for monitoring and enforcement, the effective protection o f these
protected areas is thus expected to be strengthened    .GEF incremental   activities will also significantly
increase the capacity of local communities, decentralized government agents, and private service
providers to incorporate natural resource management and broader IEM considerations into local and
sub-regional planning compared to under the baseline scenario. In addition, the project will create a
more conducive legal and institutional framework for community-based integrated ecosystem
management, buildinguponbaseline efforts to support the elaboration, application, and implementation
of decentralization laws. Finally, the project will enhance national and local capacity to monitor


                                                  - 57 -

ecosystem quality and trends in the rural sphere, particularly those relating to biodiversity and land
degradation. The GEF altemative will builddurable systems for monitoring, evaluating, and targeting
environmental trends and impacts in the rural sector, including spport for the feasibility o f a National
Observatory for Natural ResourcesMonitoring. Its pilot efforts and evaluations will also foster a much
better understanding o f the linkages between rural poverty, land degradation, and natural resource
managementinthe Chadian context.

The primary vehicle to achieve these results will be financial and techtllcal support for
community-driven,       integrated environmental management plans and subprojects that can
simultaneously address local development needs and both local and global environmental challenges
with an emphasis on activities that promote biodiversity conservation and land management. These
objectives would also be achieved through the following other incremental activities:

    support for the adoption and dissemination o f new technologies and practices relevant IEM,
    biodiversity protection, and soil fertility and restoration;

    elaboration of managementschemes for targeted ecosystems;

    training and pilot programs to build capacity and know-how, particularly among riparian
    communities inpriority interventionareas;

    improvements to the legislative fi-amework for decentralized environmental govemance and
    community-based integrated ecosystemmanagement;

    technical and material support to improve the environmental monitoring and enforcement capacity
    o f local actors, including decentralized agents o f the Ministryo f Environment andWater;

    implementation o f a monitoring and evaluation system and integration of land degradation and
    biodiversity protectionindicators into the rural sector monitoring scheme.

The incremental global environmental benefits ofthe GEF altemative include:

0   Restoration, protection, and conservation o f globally-significant ecosystems andhabitats andkey
    biodiversity assets therein;

0   Increaseinlandareaunder formal or informal ecosystemmanagementschemes ;

0   InsertioninChadian local development plans o f integratedecosystemmanagement schemes;

0   Benefits from global biodiversity use more equitably shared andindigenous knowledge
    incorporatedinto global environmental conservation efforts.


Incremental national andlocal benefits o f the GEF altemative include:

e   Promotion o f alternative livelihoodstrategiesfor the rualpoor;

0   Strengthenedlocal capacity for natural resources andecosystemmanagement;



                                                  - 58 -

0    Strengthenedcentral and decentralized institutionalcapacity:


The GEF project will also create synergies with other ongoing GEF-supported and related
environmental activities in Chad and the Wedcentral Africa region, thereby bolstering the global
environmental objectives achieved. Among these include:

Reversal o f Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem WNDP and
IBRD). The riparian countries of the Lake Chad Basin (LCB) ecosystem are unable to orchestrate
water management and environmental activities to address the aggregate impact o f these demands on
the LCB. This regional operation (USD 18.9 Million) expected to run from 2004-08 is supporting the
countries o f the Lake Chad Basin to develop a broad-based constituency and regional mechanisms to
ensure that the Basin member countries coordinate their use of Lake Chad resources. Specific project
objectives aim at: (i)  building awareness of how national policies impact on regional resources, and
capacity among riparians and stakeholders; (ii)  augmenting the existing constituency throughthe design
o f a SAP; (iii)facilitating donor coordmation; (iv) collaborating with ongoing work supportedby other
donors; and (v) drawing on lessons learned on regional water management by coordinating with other
GEF projects. The project will support pilot activities inLake Fitri, fed by the Batha River, which is
the second largest body o f water in Chad. The main goals o f t h ~ scomponent are to strengthen the
management plan, review and commission further environmental and hydrologcal studies, and build
processes for conflict resolution among stakeholders in the catchments area, including possible
identification of micro-projects that could have a beneficial economic and environmental impact. The
total budget for this activity is US $500,000. A normally permanent, freshwater Sahelian lake, Lake
Fitri has a surface area of 30,000 ha during the dry season and is part o f a larger biosphere reserve
covering 195,000 ha. In 1987, the lake was designated a Ramsar site, and in 1990 a biosphere reserve.
Unlike Lake Chad, Lake Fitri is one o f the very few Sahelian water bodies that has yet to undergo a
large-scale hydrological change, yet like Lake Chad, it is extremely shallow. Lake Fitri became
desiccated in 1913, 1985, and again in 1991 during a period o f severe drought. Of late, conflicts
between mainly Arab transhumant pastoralists and mainly Bilala sedentary farming communities
concerning control over wells and lake shore grazing have been on the rise. The most significant
potential threat to the site's ecological character comes from the cumulative impact o f small dykes and
dams diverting seasonal runoff and river flow into the lake.          Incremental GEF activities under
PROADEL will replicate pilot activities under the umbrella of the UNDP/GEF Lake Chad Basin
initiative inother rural areas.

Participatory Conservation in the Manda National Park. Moven Chari Region in Southeastem Chad
(UNDP). The Moyen Chari region in Southeastern Chad constitutes one o f the few remaining
undisturbedecological zones of Sudanese savanna. This project will strengthen the management plan
for the Manda National Park, the Aouk Reserve, and the Nyala reserve and promote measures to
rationalize natural resources use among the communities within the Park. Regular meetings will take
place and the team incharge o f project's implementation inthe MandaNational Park will be invitedto
participate in the GEF project's planning meetings in order to be able to share experiences and
coordinate activities.

BuildingScientific andTechnical Capacity for Effective Management andSustainableUse of Drvland
Biodiversitv in West African Biosphere Reserves CUNEP). The purpose o f this $6.5 million regional
project under development (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal) is to conserve
and sustainably use biodiversity in six Biosphere Reserves in West Africa that are predominantly
composed of savannahecosystems.Inorder to achieve this goal, project implementation will emphasize


                                                 - 59 -

both strengthening stakeholder capacity and integration of stakeholders in biosphere reserve
management. Technical exchanges with this operation will take place during the project's
implementation. The project will improve the understanding of interactions between local communities
and savanna ecosystems, identify and promote sustainable use of biodiversity inpilot demonstrations,
strengthen stakeholder capacity at all levels, and more effectively integrate stakeholders into the
management o f eachpilot biosphere reserve.

Institutional Strengthening and Resource Mobilization for Mainstreaming Intemated Land and Water
Management Auuroaches into Develoument Promams in Africa [IBRD).                  The project under
development has the objectives are to (i)    develop a credible M&E system to track performance and
impacts in the project intervention areas; (ii)compile and disseminate Best Management Practices
(including policies) in community-based integrated land and water management; (iii)formulate
guidelines to incrementally manage basidsub-basin issues in the selected sites; (iv) compile and
synthesize natural resource management data and develop diagnostic principles o f basidsub-basin
management in the selected sites; (v) develop mechanisms for effective stakeholder participation in
integrated land and water management in the targeted areas; (vi) training and awareness building
(capacity building) at basidwatershed, country, and community levels in the targeted areas; (vii)
develop mechanisms for communication, partnerships and operational networking within and between
the selected sites; (viii) resource mobilization from donors, governments and private sector for hrther
program implementation(expansion phase); and (ix) catalyze "start-up" institutional strengthening and
capacity building activities to support community-driven decentralized and programmatic land and
water managementinthe intervention areas.

Rural Policv Desim, Planning and Monitoring Su~uortProiect (PAEPS). This project includes an
                    -            -
environmental component that will support the implementation o f the Chadian National Action Planto
Combat Desertification. This will be done by integrating the concerns of the plan, currently embodied
by LocalAction Plans, into the LocalDevelopment Plans that will be commonto all community based
operations inChad.




                                                  - 60 -

                    Table 1:Root CauseAnalvsis and Response bv GEFProiect



'hreat 1: land degradation and
esertifieation (includes erosion,
egradation o f surface and
roundwater resources, loss o f
iomass, declining soil rtility)
    No integrated         0  Low levels o f government   SPOP:                           0Integration of IEMinthe
      ecosystem              support (insufficient                                        revision o f land tenure
nanagementapproach           technical support) I,L       0 Support for productive        regulation and other legislation
                                                            investments and               pertaining to decentralized
Use o f inappropriate     0  Lack o f accessto farm         dissemination o f new         responsibility for natural
 farming techniques          equipment and credit T         agricultural techniques.      resources management.
   (slash and bum
igriculture, bushfires,   0  Cottonmonoculture T          0 Support for strengthening    0Pilot activities to disseminate
short fallow period):                                       the capacity of producer      more sustainable agricultural
                          0  Low levels o fprivate          organizations and             and pastoraltechniques with
                             investmentI                     improvingthe environment     longer-term payback periods.
                                                             for the private sector.
                          0  Socio-cultural factors (land                                0Capacity building o f MEE
                             tenure, gender), conflicts   0 Environmental impact          agents inthe field inorder to
                             betweentraditional and          capacity building programs   promote new techniques.
                             modem authorities S, L          for local governments and
                                                             communities                 0Integration o f larger spatial
                          0  Lack o f ruralinfrastructure                                 environmental concerns inLocal
                             I                            0  PROADEL                      Development Plans and
                                                                                          communal development schemes
                          0  Declining agricultural       0  Construction o frural
                             yields T                        infrastructures(roads,
                                                             wells, etc.. .).
                          0  Weak producer
                             organizations T, I           0  Support to decentralization

                          0  Highilliteracy andlow         0 Revision of landtenure
                             levels o f education T, S       laws.

                          0  Weak decentralization L       0 PRODABO

                             Migration o fpopulations in   0 Pilot watershed
                             search o f employment           management approaches
                             andior displacedby              and sustainable farming
                             political instability S         techniques invicinity o f
                                                             Abeche
Intenserainfall andor    0  Insufficient technical suppor 0 Technical assistance         0Financing o f subproiects
      highwinds             T                                                             such as windbreaks-
     Overgrazing         0  Low levels o f govemment      LSPOP:                         0The IEMtechniques into
  (poor transhumant         support (insufficient                                         LDP will bring coherence
 routes management)         technical support) I,L.       e Dissemination ofnew           between local communities
                                                            techniques and systems that   intranshumant livestock
                         0  Farmeriherder conflicts S.      are sustainable and           management
                                                            environment-friend1y   .
                         0  Land tenure framework
                            insufficient S, L             PROADEL:

                                                          0 Revision of land tenure law;



                                                          -61  -

  Deforestation (fuel     0  No alternative to wood         'ROADEL                            0Support for community
     wood mostly)            energy proposed T                                                  forestry and financing o f
                                                             0 Support for community            projects proposingenergy
                                                               forestry and rationalization     alternatives inMoundou
                                                               o fwoodfuel and charcoal         charcoal supply basinand
                                                                sales inNdjamena and            other GEF priority zones
                                                               periphery.
  Uncontrolled water      0  Landtenure framework S, L SPOP
       extraction
                          0  Insiffcient technical suppori   0  Developmento f community       0Capacity building o fMEE
                             T.                                 capacity to regulate use o f    agents inthe field inorder to
                                                                water resources; promotion      promote new management
                          0  No control inthe field I           o f agricultural techniques to  techniques.
                                                                reduce erosion and pollutior
                                                                by agrochemicals.              0 Coherencebetween
                                                                                                 communities brought by the
                                                             0 Training andcapacity              IEMapproach.
                                                                buildingprograms for local
                                                                governments and                0 Financing o f subprojects to
                                                                communities.                     combat erosion.

                                                             0  Revision o f land tenure law[


Note: issues are sorted in4 categories: T: Technical (includes environmental) / S: Socio-Economical / I:Institutional / L:legal.




rhreat 2: loss of biodiversity
:includes loss o f natura abitats)
       Poaching            0  Traditional food and hunting                                          0  Management plans for
                              habits S.                                                                Protected Areas organized
                                                                                                       into a network.
                           0  Conflict betweenPA staff
                              and local communities S.                                              0  Application o fLaw 14 and
                                                                                                       related texts on hunting,
                           0  Difficulties to enforce                                                  fishing, and forest products.
                              regulations I,L
                                                                                                    0  Capacity building o f MEE
                                                                                                       agents inthe field.

                                                                                                    0  Fire sensitization programs
   Weak biodiversity      0  Low capacity o f staff I. 'RODALKA                                    0  Support implementation
management (PA ofter                                          0   Localdevelopment plans              o f community based
     "paper parks")       0  Lack o f information on              integrate natural resource          IEMschemesinpriority
                             wildlife T                           management andbiodiversity          zones and strengthening
                                                                  conservationconcems                 o f associated protected
                                                                                                      areas andbuffer zones
                                                                                                      under critical threat.

                                                                                                   0  Improvedmonitoring
                                                                                                      and enforcement
                                                                                                      capacities, including
                                                                                                      communities and MEE
                                                                                                      agents in the field.

                                                                                                   0  Facilitation o f a


                                                             - 62 -

                                                                                                coordinated, bottom-up
                                                                                                IEMapproach
                                                                                                accompanying affected
                                                                                                communities.

                                                                                               DLocaldevelopment plans
                                                                                                intargeted zones will
                                                                                                integratebiodiversity
                                                                                                conservation concems
  Conflicts between                                        SPOP:
vildlife and agriculturc
ictivities: no integrate( 0 OvergrazingT                   0 Dissemination o fnew              mThe IEMtechniques into
        approach                                             techniques and systems that are    LDP will bring
                          0 Extensive agriculture S, T.      sustainable and                    coherencebetweenlocal
                                                             environment-friendly.              communities in
                          0 Low levels o f govemment                                            transhumant livestock
                            support (insufficient technica ROADEL:                               management.
                            support) I,L.
                                                                                               D Financing o f subprojects

                          0 Land tenure framework          0 Revision o f landtenure laws.       addressing this issue
                            insufficient S, L                                                    (transhumance
                                                           RODALKA:                              corridors.. .).

                                                                                               0 Capacity buildingo f
                                                           0  Installationo f ILODs inLac        affected communities
                                                              Lere andYamba Berte Forest
                                                              Reserve.
 Use o f inappropriate                                     SPOP:
   fishing techniques
                          0 Low levels o f government      0  Dissemination o fnew             0 Targeted grants to
                            support (insufficient technice    techniques and systems that are    trigger off the useo f
                            support) I,L.                     sustainable and                    new environmentally
                                                              environment-friendly.              friendly techniques.
                          0 Lack o f accessto equipment
                            and credit T.                  0  Support for strengthening the    0 Capacity buildingo f
                                                              capacity o fproducer               MEE agents inthe field
                          0 Weak producer organization5       organizations and improvingthr     inorder to promotenew
                            T, I.                             environment for the private        techniques.
                                                              sector.
                          0 Highilliteracy and low level:                                      0 Integration o f global
                            o f education T, S.            0  Training and capacity building     environmental concems
                                                              programs for local governments     inLocalDevelopment
                          0,Weak decentralization L           andcommunities                     Plans


  Deforestation (fuel     0 No altemative to wood energ    PROADEL
      wood mostly)          proposed T
                                                           0  Support for community forestry   0  Support for community
                                                              and rationalization o fwoodfuel     forestry andwood fuel
                                                              and charcoal sales (including      management and
                                                              taxation schemes) incity o f        financing o f subprojects
                                                              Ndjamena and periphery.            proposing energy
                                                                                                  altematives inMoundou
                                                                                                  charcoal supply basin
                                                                                                  and other GEFpriority
                                                                                                  zones




                                                           - 63 -

Demographic pressure                                         SPOP

                          0  Migration o fpopulations in      0 Support for productive
                             searcho f employment and/or        investments andproducers'
                             displaced by political             organizations.
                             instability S.
                                                             'RODAB0

                          0  Cultural features S              0 Support for local development      0 Support for alternative
                                                                andwatershedprotection in            rural livelihood
                                                                areas under pressure from            strategies, such as
                                                                refugees.                            agroforestry and
                                                                                                     ecotourism.

                                                                                                   0 Land and resource
                                                                                                     management planning in
                                                                                                     highly fragile areas
                                                                                                     under increasedpressure
                                                                                                     from refugees



Note: issues are sorted in4 categories: T: Technical (includes environmental) / S: Socio-Economic / I:Institutional / L:legal.



IncrementalCost Calculations:

The cost of all relevant baseline activities under the umbrella framework of the PIDR is estimated at US
$86.05 M. The cost o f the alternative scenario with the inclusion o f the GEF project is US $94.45 M. A
detailed breakdown o f these costs by component is provided in Table 1 below in order to arrive at the
incremental costs. This table also describes the supplmental local, national, and global environmental
benefits that would accrue from the alternative scenario as compared to the domestic benefits that would
accrue to the beneficiaries ifonly the baseline scenario were realized.

The incremental cost reflects the difference between the cost of the alternative and the baseline project
costs. The total incremental costs for the Project are therefore estimated at U S $7.87 Million, o f which the
GEF contribution is $ 6.00 M. GEF support will be allocated by the project components as follows: $2.5
Mis for the financial support to community-based integratedecosystemmanagement subprojects; $1.6 M
is for capacity building for integrated ecosystem management; $0.7 M is for support for an enabling
environment for community-based integrated ecosystem management, and $1.2 M i s for project
management andmonitoring support. Thus, the contribution o f the GEF represents about 6.5% o f the total
costs o f the alternative scenario.




                                                             - 64 -

Table 2: Detailed Incremental CostMatrix and Comparison of Baseline and GEFAlternative

      Component            Incremental               Baseline Scenario              ilternative Scenariowitl Incremental Domestic
                               Cost*           (PROADEL+Associated                        GEF Activities                           Benefit
                                                     Aspects of PIDR)                                                     (including local and
                                                                                                                       national environmental
                                                                                                                                  benefits)

1.Financial support for  IncrementalCost:        Implementationof                   mplementationofa significant        Additional povertyreduction
communitybased           $2.1 M                  micro-investmentsthat support      lumberof community based            gainsthroughaccelerated
integratedecosystem                              localeconomicdevelopment,          ntegratedecosystemmanagement        restorationandor augmentation
                         ofwhich $2.5Mis         includingpromotionofmore           iubprojectsthat address             of latent naturalresources
                         GEFGrant; $0.2Mi s      sustainablefarming techniques      iocio-economicequity andgrowth      productivity (e.g., soil fertility,
                         Beneficiares            andbasic infrastructure, but few   :onstmints intandem with local,     fishery stocks, forestservices)
                         co-financing            projectsdirectly relatedto natural iationalandglobal environmental
                                                 resourcesmanagementor which        iroblems                            Pipelineofcommunity
                                                 caneffectmeasurable global                                             conceivedandvetted
                         BaselineCost:           environmentalbenefits                                                  environmentalsubprojects
                         $33.51 M                --- ASPOP                                                              primedfor sustainable
                                                     PROADEL ComponentI                                                 decentralizeddevelopment
                         PROADEL (IDA) -                  ComponentI                                                    funding under future oil
                         $10.12M                     PRODALKA Components 1,2,                                           revenue-sharingplans
                         PROADEL                 and4
                         (Beneficiaries) - $1.6  - PRODABOComponents 1,2                                                Landrehabilitation and
                         M                                                                                              renewednaturalresource
                         ASPOP (IDA) -                                                                                  productivity engendered
                         $8.99 M                                                                                        throughwider uptakeof
                         ASPOP                                                                                          sustainableagricultural
                         (Beneficiaries) - $1.8                                                                         practicesandrelated
                         M                                                                                              technologies(e.g., direct
                         PRODALKA $6.0 -                                                                                seeding, ago-forestry
                         M                                                                                              investments, water harvesting)
                         PRODABO $5.0 -
                         M                                                                                              Forestrehabilitation and
                                                                                                                        increasedareaunderactive
                         Altemative Cost:                                                                               protection
                         $36.21M



2. Capacitybuilding for  IncrementalCost:        Supportfor localdevelopment         Capacity of localcommunities to     A commonor similar
integratedecosystem      $1.86 M                 planningincluding modest             incorporatenaturalresource         understandingof goodpractice
management                                       improvement inthe capacityof        managementandbroaderIEM             inIEMprinciplesandplanning
                         ofwhich $1.6 Mis        communitiesto design and             considerationsinto local and       amongsignficantnumbersof
                         GEF Grant; $0.26         implementnaturalresources           sub-regionalplanning               local communitiesinChad
                         Mis Governmentof        managementactivitiesthat may         significantly strengthened leadin  achieved
                         Chadco-financing        regeneratenaturalresourcesin         to national,local, and global
                                                  selectedareas                       environmentalbenefits              Integrationof IEMissuesand
                         BaselineCost:                                                                                   principlesinthe majority, rathe
                         $ 28.71 M                - PROADELComponentI1                                                   thanminority, of local
                                                  -ASPOP ComponentII(a)(c)                                               developmentplans inGEF
                         PROADEL (IDA)      -     -- PRODALKA
                                                     PRODABO                                                             priority zones
                         $4.58 M
                         PROADEL(AFD)        -                                                                           Significant improvementinthe
                         $ 5.45 M                                                                                        capacity ofcommunitiesto
                         PROADEL (GoC):                                                                                  design, plan andimplement
                         $ 8.1 M                                                                                         naturalresourcemanagement
                         ASPOP (IDA)    -                                                                                subprojects
                         $2.88 M
                         ASPOP IGoC)     -                                                                               Keynational andlocal
                                 .     I
                         $0.7 M                                                                                          stakeholders sensitizedto the
                         PRODALKA $3.5  -                                                                                relationshipbetweenglobal
                         M                                                                                               environmentalchallenges and
                         PRODABO $3.5 -                                                                                  local developmentissues
                         M
                                                                                                                         Betterrationalization of fuel
                         Altemative Cost:                                                                                wood andcharcoalalternatives



                                                                - 65 -

                         $30.57 M
                                                                                                                Lower propensity ofriparian
                                                                                                                communities to encroachupon
                                                                                                                protectedareasand sensitive
                                                                                                                habitats



3. Support for anenablin hcrementalCost:     Stronginstitutionalilegal          Decentralizationlawsreflect     Improved frameworkinplace
environmentfor           $1.72 M             frameworkfor decentralizedrural    sharedvision of                 for decentralizedenvironmental
community-basedIEM                           development, with minimal          community-drivennatural         govemance
                         ofwhich $0.7 Mis    capacityoflocalauthorities to      resourcemanagementand
                         GEFGrant; $1.02M    support naturalresources           capacityofMinistry ofEnergy     Stronger enforcement power
                         is Govemmentof      management(mainly focusedon        andWater agentsat decentralized andcapacityofMinistry of
                         Chadco-financing    moresustainableagricultural        levelsto address andsupport IEM Water andEnergyofficials to
                                             cultivation)                       andbiodiversityconservation     upholdenvironmental
                         BaselineCost:                                          issuesgreatly strengthened      regulations, particularly at
                         $ 8.19 M            -- ASPOP
                                                PROADEL Component111                                            localiregionallevel
                                                       ComponentII(d)
                         PROADEL(IDA)-                                                                          Vanguardofcommunities
                         $3.4 M                                                                                 enabledtojointly-manage
                         PROADEL (GoC)    -                                                                     protectedareas.
                         $1.67 M
                         ASPOP (IDA) $2.6;
                                        -
                         M
                         ASPOP (GoC)    -
                         $0.50 M

                         Altemative Cost:
                         $ 9.91 M



4. Managementand                             A general public awareness-raising Developmentofexpandedand          Durable andcommonlyshared
monitoringsupport.       sIncrementalCost:
                            2.12 M           campaignandabroad-based,           morecoherentenvironmental         tools andsystemsfor
                                             participatoryrural development     managementinformation systems     monitoring, evaluating, and
                         of which $ 1.2 Mis  monitoringsystem, which would      promotionofparticipatory          targeting of
                         GEF Grant; and      also includeadditionaldataon       monitoringmethodologies,GIS       environmentaL'IEM
                         $0.92 Mis           naturalresouces                    mapping, andinformation           interventionsestablished
                         GovernmentofChad                                        coordinationandexchangeamon
                         co-financing        -- PROADEL   ComponenetI V         key stakeholders.                 Commonguidelines set for
                                                ASPOP Component 111                                               data collection, analysis, and
                         BaselineCost:                                                                            exchangebetween
                         $ 15.64M                                                                                 communities, local
                                                                                                                  government, civil society, and
                         PROADEL (IDA)    -                                                                       projectmanagement
                         $4.9 M
                         PROADEL (GoC) -                                                                          Better understandingofthe
                         $3.41 M                                                                                  linkagesbetweenrural
                         ASPOP (IDA) $2.2
                                        -                                                                         poverty, landdegradation, and
                         M                                                                                        naturalresourcemanagement
                         ASPOP (GoC)    -                                                                         intheChadiancontext
                         $1.06M
                         PRODALKA $2.0 -                                                                          Feasibility study for a
                         M                                                                                        NationalNatural Resources
                         PRODABO $2.0 M
                                     -                                                                            Observatory conducted

                         Alternative Cost:
                         $ 17.63 M




                                                             - 66 -

                              Annex 5: Financial Summary
                 CHAD: Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
                                    Years Ending


                                              IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                       I Year1 I Year2    I Year3   I Year4  I Year5  IYear6   1 Year7       I
                                                                                    ~~~    ~




Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts           0.8       1.5        2.3      2.5      0.7     0.0          0.0
 RecurrentCosts             0.1       0.2        0.1      0.1      0.1     0.0          0.0
Total Project Costs         0.9       1.7        2.4      2.6      0.8     0.0          0.0
Total Financing             0.9       1.7        2.4      2.6      0.8     0.0          0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                 0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0           0.0
   Government               0.4       0.5        0.6      0.6      0.1    0.0           0.0
      Central               0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0           0.0
       Provincial           0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0           0.0
   Co-financiersGEF         0.5       1.2        1.7      1.9      0.7    0.0           0.0
Beneficiaries           ,   0.0       0.0        0.1      0.1      0.0    0.0           0.0
Total Project Financing     0.9       1.7        2.4      2.6      0.8    0.0           0.0
Main assumptions:




                                         - 67 -

                      Annex 6: Procurementand DisbursementArrangements
                  CHAD: Community-BasedEcosystemManagement Project

Procurement

GENERAL

Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Chad was carried out in 1993, showing that
procurement procedures in Chad do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. N o special exceptions, permits, or
licensesneedto be specified inthe Financing documents for IntemationalCompetitive Bidding (ICB), since
Chad's Public Procurement Code (Decree 859/F'R/SGG/90)        allows Intemational Development Association
(IDA) procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions inlocal regulations. A new CPAR was
carried out in May, 2000. It focused on the Government's capacity to managepublic resources and on the
impact o f the recent fiscal reform on procurement. Based on the work prepared by a fiscal expert, the
Government has adopted in July 2000 new Instructions to Bidders (Guide aux Soumissionnaires) which
clarifies the fiscal issue ina satisfactory way.

Guidelines

Goods and works financed by the GEF Grant shall be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004 (The Procurement Guidelines) and Bank Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD), and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would be canied out in accordance with Chad's procurement laws and
regulations, acceptable to the Bank providedthat they assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad
consistency with key objectives o f the Bank Guidelines. In the absence o f national standard bidding
documents, the Bank's SBD with appropriate modifications inrelationto provisions relating to "advertising
and notification", "currencies of bid and payment'', "settlement of disputes", and deletion of the domestic
preference provision, etc will be usedfor NCB. It should ensure that: (i)methods used inevaluation o f bids
and the award o f contracts are made known to all bidders andnot be applied arbitrarily; (ii) bidder is
                                                                                                 any
given adequateresponse time (four weeks) for preparation and submission ofbids; (iii) evaluation and
                                                                                           bid
bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margm is granted to
domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not precluded fiom participation; (vi) awardwill be made to
the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid
evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; (viii) prior to issuing the
first call for bids, draft standardbiddingdocuments prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual would
be submittedto the Bank for review.

Consultant services contracts financed by IDA grant will be procured inaccordancewith Bank's
Guidelinesfor the Selection andEmployment of Consultants byWorld BankBorrowersdatedMay 2004
(The Consultant Guidelines). The StandardRequest for Proposal, as developedbythe Bank, will be used
for appointment o f Consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, that is those
not exceeding six months, carried out by f m s or individual consultants.

Procurement activities carried out for small works, goods and services for community-based micro-projects
financed by the matching grant would be carried out inaccordance with paragraph 3.15 o f the Guidelines
(Community ParticipationinProcurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the Project ImplementationManual
(PIM). These would be described ina specific chapter o fthe PIM.



                                                    - 68 -

Regarding GEF financed activities, procurement activities would be carried out as well inaccordancewith
the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits '' dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and
the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general description o f various items to be acquired
under the different expenditure categories o f the project are described below.     For each contract to be
financed by the GEF grant , the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame would be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually, or as required to
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared and published inthe UnitedNations Development
Business following Board Approval, to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB.
Publication o f a GPN inthe national press or official gazette will be carried out for NCB. The GPN shall
be prepared before negotiations andpublished after board approval. It shall include all contracts underICB
and all large consulting contracts (i.e estimated to cost $100,000 or more). The GPN will be updated on a
yearly basis and will show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for works and goods
contracts and all international consulting services. In addition, a specific procurement notice (SPN) is
required for all goods and works to be procured under ICB and Expression O f Interest (EOI) for all
consulting services costing US$ 100,000 equivalent or more.

ProcurementCapacity Assessment

The procurement capacity assessment of the PROADEL was carried out slightly before its appraisal
mission. It was found that for the first months o f project preparation procurement activities were carried
out by the project preparation team which had some experience in procurement management from their
experience in other projects such as the FACIL. However, there was not a person entirely in charge o f
procurement responsibilities. Therefore, the some recommendations were made in an action plan to solve
this problem and the possible risks linked to it. Those recommendations which are already being
implemented included: (i)the hring o f a Procurement Specialist at the PMU, (ii)        the preparation of a
procurement plan for the first 18 months o f project implementation and a regular annual updating o f such
plan to reduce the risk of the extension of project duration, (iii) establishment of a procurement
                                                                       the
planningand contract managementsystem integrated inthe computerized Financialmanagement system to
be installed at the central project coordination unit (PMU) andregional units (LPMUs) inorder to ensure
 the follow-up o f contracts funds disbursement and aggregate amounts, (iv) providingprocurement training
 workshops at the Regional procurement centers in the region (that is Dakar, Senegal); (v) providing
 technical assistancethrough short-term consultants as necessary, (vi) annual technical and financial audits
 specific to procurement and (vii) a clear development o f procurement rules and methods in the Project
 ImplementationManual (PIM). Since the procurement activities to be financed by the GEF will be carried
 out by the Procurement Specialist of the PROADEL, therefore there will be no problem at all they will
 undertaken according to the Bankrules and Guidelines as for the PROADEL.

 ProcurementImplementationArrangements

 As in the case of IDA Grant implementation, the bulk of procurement for vehicles, equipment, consulting
 services, studies and training to be financed over the GEF Grant would be managed by the P M U o f the
 PROADEL through the Procurement Specialist it i s already staffed with. He will be in charge o f the


                                                     - 69 -

preparation o f all the biddingdocuments (ICB, NCB and local shopping), the requests for proposals, their
submission to The Bank for no objection before their publication. The Procurement Specialist in
collaboration with the other senior members of the PMU, with the GEF Specialist included, will make the
evaluation o f the bids and the proposals and seek the no objection o f The Bank before making any award
for contracts not govemed by the National Tender Board (Commission Nationale des Marchb Publics).
For contracts govemed by the National Tender Board, the current legislation will apply, provided that it is
not incontradiction with the GEF Grant Agreement. The PMU would use consultants as necessaryto carry
out specific tasks in procurement. At the local level, each o f the three LPMUs o f the PROADEL staffed
with a Procurement Specialist will give the required support to the communities in the case of
Community-Based Procurement. They will be mainly in charge o f the training of the communities in
Community-Based Procurement. They will assist them in the preparation o f bidding documents and
evaluation o f bids when necessary. But this intervention is expected to be very few since the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) will develop a section entirely dedicated to Community-Based Procurement
with all the necessary elements. The recruitment to all the positions in the PMU for the GEF activities
should be acceptable to The Bankprior to project implementation andduringthe life o f the project.

Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Recipient
for ex-post review by auditors and by The Bank supervision missions. The PMU would be required to
prepare a computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon would not be
exceededduringthe life o fproject implementation.


ProcurementMethods

CivilWorks

N o major works would be financed under the GEF grant. The remaining works consist o f small works to
be carried out through community-based micro-projects. Given the size, amount and demand-dnven nature
o f community-based ecosystem mangement subprojects, these contracts would be govemed when
applicable by the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments (February 1998) and the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). As part of grants for
community-based micro-projects, small works will mostly be works relating to the protectiono f ecosystems
such as small dikes, stone bamers, small bridges, small dams, etc. These small works are estimated to cost
US$50,000 or less per contract. They may be procuredunder lump-sum, fured-price contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings where
applicable. A standardbiddingdocument spelling out all the requirements under this procurement method
will be fumished inthe Project ImplementationManual (PIM).The awards will be made to the contractors
who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. Works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent o f US$ 50,000 would be procured through National Competitive Bidding in accordance with
procedures described inthe PIM and acceptableto the Bank.

Goods

Goods. For goods to be financed under the GEF Grant, procurement o f computers equipment, office
equipment,materials andfurniture, locally available at economical price andcosting lessthanUS$250,000
per contract will follow NCB procedures acceptableto the Bank. Procurement o fvehicles, motorcycles and


                                                    - 70 -

equipment costing US$250,000 or more per contract would be carried through ICB. Goods that cannot be
grouped into bidpackages o f US$50,000 or more may be procuredthrough national shopping according to
procedures acceptable to the Bank, or through the UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
(IAPSO). The Recipient would award the contract, on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least
three qualified suppliers, following evaluation o fbids received inwriting from such qualified suppliers. The
award would be made to the supplier with the lowest price quotation for the required goods, provided he
still has the experience and resourcesto executethe contract successfully.

Review by the Bank. Contracts financed by the GEF Grant above the threshold value o f US$ 250,000
equivalent for Goods and the first three contracts for Goods, awarded underNational Competitive Bidding,
will be subject to the Bank'spriorreview procedures inaccordanceto Appendix 1ofthe Guidelines.

Community-Based Procurement. The project will finance community-based ecosystem management
subprojects which in total is estimated at $2.7 million equivalent o f which GEF $ 2.5 million. The
subprojects will comprise thmgs such as small dikes, stone bamers, small bridges, small dams, etc These
subprojects are estimated to cost US$50,000 or less per contract. Fundingfor these activities will be inthe
form of grants. Communities will be required to contribute on agreed percentage o f the total budget in
labor, kindor in cash (see Project ImplementationManual for details).

Financing will dependon applications received from communities against a negative list of activities. It is
not possible to determine the exact mix o f goods, small works, and services to be procured under these
activities due to their demand-driven nature. Therefore, the types o f activities to be financed and their
procurement details will depend on the needs identifiedby the communities. Procurement o f items for the
implementationo f subprojects would be carried out in accordance with simplifiedprocurement procedures
referred to the Project ImplementationManual. The manual will contain a special chapter describing the
procedures andtools in accordancewith those found inthe Bank's Guidelinesfor Simplified Procurement
and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments (February 1998).

The PMU and the LPMUs will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines, and ex-post
reviews o f random subprojects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independenttechcal audits.


Procurementof non-consultingservices. Servicesthat are not of anintellectual andadvisory nature, such
as logistics for workshop and training, reproduction o f document and printing will be procured through
price quotation inaccordancewith the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 o f the Procurement Guidelines.


ConsultantsServices, Audits and Studies

The total cost o f consulting service financed by the GEF is estimated at US$1.4 million. It would mainly
consist of: (i)specialized studies, supervision, project implementation and monitoring, Management
Information System, financial management support, (ii)     specialized advisory services, techcal assistance,
legal services pertainingto the development and the updatingo f the policy and institutional and regulatory
framework ; (iii)   advisory services, participatory assessment and technical support to local communities
toward integrated ecosystem management            plans ; (iv) training through skills gap analysis, skills
development and training staff of central, decentralized institutions and member o f community based
 organization; and (v) andextension o f the computerized information managementsystem.




                                                     - 71 -

Consultants would be hred in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World BankBorrowers dated May 2004 (The Consultant Guidelines).

Quality-and-Cost-based Selection (QCBS):all consulting service contracts costing US$lOO,OOO equivalent
or more for firms would be awarded through Quality andCost Based Selection (QCBS) method. To ensure
that priority i s given to the identification o f suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists for
contracts estimated at or less thanUS$50,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely o f national consultants
(in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a
sufficient number o f qualifiedindividual or f m s (at least three) are available. However, if foreign f m s
have expressed interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.The Project Implementation Unit
would ensure widely publicized expression o f interest to get candidacy from consultants. Based on agreed
upon criteria, the Project ImplementationUnit will maintain and update a list o f consultants whch will be
used to establish short-lists.

Regarding services to be financed under the GEF grant, all contracts for firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more would be procured using QCBS method. As spelled out by the new
Consultant Guidelines, the short-list shall include six consulting firms, the weight factors to be used for the
technical proposal shall be 80 percent and 20 percent for the financial proposal.

Least Cost Selection (LCS) would also apply. For financial and techcal audits, estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO, the selection would be made on the basis o f Least Cost Selection (LCS).

Selection Based on consultants Qualzjkations (CQ): Consultants for small studies, engineering designs
and supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and short term assignments, costing less than US$lOO,OOO,
would be selectedthrough the Selection Based on consultants Qualifications method.

Individual Consultants: Consultant for services meeting the requirements o f section V o f the consultant
guidelines, may be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants, i.e. through
the comparison of the curriculum vitae o f at least 3 qualified individuals, and in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.          Some individual consulting
services may, with IDA'Sprior agreement ,be selected under single-source basis in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. Government officials and civil servant may be
hred under consulting contract providedtheir recruitment meetsthe requirement o f the provisions 1.11(d)
o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Single Source Selection may exceptionally with IDA'Sprior agreement be used for (i)training, (ii)
advisory services relatedto activities of the techrucal support agencies, (iii)
                                                                              consulting assignment provided
byNGOs to assist community basedassociations, inaccordancewith the provisions o f paragraph 3.9-3.13
of the Consultant Guidelines.

Trainings, Workshops,Seminars and Conferences. The total cost o f GEF financing for these activities i s
estimated at US$0.9 million. Training, workshops, seminars and conferences attendance and study tours
will be carried out on the basis of approved annual programs that will identify the general framework of
training and similar activities for the year, including the nature o f traininghtudy tours/workshops, the
number of participants, and cost estimates.




                                                     - 72 -

Review by the Bank.Bank Staff will review the selectionprocess for the hiringofconsultantsproposedby
the Recipient in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for Consultants. All consulting contracts
costing US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for firms and all contracts for audits regardless their estimatedcost
and all individual consulting contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more would be
subject to the Bank's prior review. All other contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with
paragraph 4 Appendix Io f the Guidelines. Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to
levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholdsare subject to the Bank'sreview.

All terms of reference of consultants would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Other procurement
subject to the Bank's review would include: annual training plans for local and overseas training and
workshops, including terms o f reference and estimated budgets. All out o f country training will be subject
to the Bank approval.

Modificationor waiver o f the scope and conditions o f contracts. Before agreeing to any material extension,
or any modification or waiver of the conditions o f contracts that would increase aggregate cost by more
than 15% o f the original price, the Recipient should specify the reasons thereof and seek the Bank's prior
no-objection for the proposed modification.

Operational Costs: Office rental and utilities would be procured using administrative procedures
acceptable to the Bank.

Project ImplementationManual(PIM)

A PIM was already produced for the baseline project. It is being revised to take into account the specific
aspects linked to GEF activities It defines the project's internal organization, its implementation
procedures and includes: (i)the procedures for calling for bids, selecting consultants, and awarding
contracts; (ii)the procedures and sample of contracts for community-based procurement; (iii) internal
                                                                                                   the
organization for supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the role o f the executing
agency and reporting requirements and (iv) the disbursement procedures. The ImplementationManual has
beenexamined during negotiations. It will be revised accordingly and adopted by the Government, inform
and substanceacceptableto the Bank, before effectiveness.

Duringnegotiations, the Government has submittedto the Bankfor review: (a) a draft procurement planfor
the first 18 months of the project ; (b) the Project Implementation Manual; (c) the standard bidding
documents to be usedfor NCB procedures for Goods and works; and (d) a training program for the PMU.
The Government will also give assurance that the PMU will : (a) use the Implementation Manual; (b) use
the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection of
consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews
with the Bank and other donors, to compare target times andactual completion, andtransmit it to the Bank,
during implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews,
an assessment of the effectiveness o f biddingprocedures andperformance, as they relate to the program's
procurement experience, and propose for the Bank and other donors' consideration any modification to the
current proceduresto the extent that would accelerateprocurement, whde still maintaining compliance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequatecontrol over contract awards andpayments.

The Government will also give assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary measure to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceedthe following target time periods:


                                                    - 73 -

7          Procurement Phases                      I        Maximum number of weeks               I
     Preparationofbidding documents                            4 (6 for large contracts)
       Preparationofbids by bidders                                4 (6-10 for ICB)
                Bidevaluation                                   2 (4 for large contracts)
           Signature of Contracts                                           2
                   Payments                                                 3




Procurementmethods (Table A)

                                Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                                   (US$ million equivalent)

This table i n c l i t d e ~ ~ ~ ~ i t hoth.PROADEL and CBEMplus Government Counterpartjunds.
                                       r e s ~ ~ r

                                                                                   Method'
        Expenditure Category                         ICB        Procurement           Other*         N.B.F.         Total
                                                                     NCB                                            cost
1.Works                                             0.00              0.68             0.00           0.00          0.68
                                                   (0.00)            (0.50)            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.50)
2. Goods                                            1.52              2.00              0.07           0.20          3.16
                                                   (1.44)            (1.OO)            (0.06)         (0.00)        (2.50)
3. Services, Audits and Studies                     0.00              0.00             16.06           8.16         24.22
                                                   (0.00)            (0.00)            (6.60)         (0.00)        (6.60)
4. Training                                         0.00              0.00              1.60           0.85          2.45
                                                   (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.68)         (0.00)        (0.68)
5. MatchingGrants for
             -                                      0.00              0.00             13.78           2.67         16.45
micro-projects                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.12)         (0.00)       (10.12)
6. Operating Costs                                  0.00              0.00              2.20           3.54          5.74
                                                   (0.00)            (0.00)            (1.25)         (0.00)        (1.25)
7. PPF                                              0.00              0.00              1S O       0.00              1.50
                                                   (0.00)            (0.00)            (1.20)    (0.00)             (1.20)
   Total                                             1.52             2.35             35.21             15.12      54.20
                                                    (1.44)           (1SO)            (20.16)         (0.00)       (23.00)


I/         Figures inparenthesisare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include
           contingencies.
2/         Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
           contracted staff o fthe project managementoffice, training, technical assistance services, matching grants
           for subprojects and incremental operating costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
           project funds to local government units.




                                                          - 74 -

                   Table AI : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                      (US$ million equivalent)

                                                      Selection Method
  ConsultantServices
 Expenditure Category    QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.   ~ o b l ~ ~ ~ t (
A. Firms                 0.90       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.50      0.00      0.30       1.70
                         (0.90)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.30)     (0.00)   (0.00)     (1.20)
6. Individuals           0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.20       0.40
                         (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.20)   (0.00)     (0.20)
                 Total   0.90       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.50       0.20     0.50       2.10
                         (0.90)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.30)     (0.20)   (0.00)     (1.40)


         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
              QBS = Quality-basedSelection
              SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
              LCS = Least-Cost Selection
              CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
              Other = Selection of individualconsultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
              Commercial Practices, etc.
              N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
              Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                - 75 -

Prior reviewthresholds(TableB)




                Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review   '
EII                           Contract Value                                   Contracts Subject to
                                Threshold                 Procurement              Prior Review
 Expenditure Category         (US$ thousands)                Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                     More than $50,000                NCB                   PostReview
Works for subprojects



Small works for
subprojects                    $50,000 or less         Community-Based              PostReview
                                                           Procurement
12. Goods                     $250,000 or more                 ICB                  Priorreview
                                                                              (amount: US$O.Omillion)

                              Below $250,000                  NCB                   PostReview
                                                                               (except first 3 contracts),
                                                                               amount: US$0.3 million


                              Less than $50.000              Shopping               PostReview
3. Services
Consulting firms              $100,000 or more                QCBS            PriorReview(>=100,000),
                                                                               amount: US$O.9 million
                                                                               Post Review(<100,000)

                             Less than $100,000                 CQ                   PostReview
                                                                                 (TORSprior review)
 4. Financial and            Less than $100,000                LCS                  PriorReview
 Technical Audits
 5. Individual                 $50,000 or more                                      PriorReview
 Consultants                    or sole source                                 (amount: US$0.2million)

                                                              3 cvs

                              Less than$50,000                                       Post Review
I

                         Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$1.4 million

                             Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

                                              Average

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months(includes special


                                              - 76 -

procurementsupervisionfor post-review/audits)


'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04"Review of Procurement
 Documentation" and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                 - 77 -

Disbursement

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The computerized financial management system in place for the management o f the Local Development
Program Support Project, assessed acceptable to the Bank, will be extended and used for the GEF
 operations.

 1)Arrangements regarding GEFGrant

 (a) Statement o f Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures should be against full documentation
 except for items o f expenditures under contracts o f less than: (a) US$ 250,000 for goods; (b) US$
 100,000 for consulting firms, (c) US$ 50,000 for individual consultants as well as (e) all training and
 operating costs, whch will be claimed on the basis o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting
 documentation for SOEs will be retained at the PMU and will be readily accessible for review by periodic
 Bank supervision missions andexternal auditors;

 Inthe case ofFinancial Support for the Community-Based EcosystemManagement subprojects,there will
 bepre-financingo f expenditures, as communities are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of
 funds. All disbursements against expenditures under this component will be subject to ex post financial
 andphysicalaudits, on a sample basis, to be carriedout bythe external auditors o fthe project.

 (b)Accounts and DisbursementProcedures:The followingBankaccountswillbemaintained:

- Two GEF Special Accounts (A andB) denominated inCFAF ;

- Project Account also denominated in CFAF. Counterpart funds from the Government of Chad will be
deposited into this account.

These accounts will be maintained in a Commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank. GEF funds will be
disbursed to finance activities based on traditional disbursement procedures (transaction-based
disbursements) i.e, direct payments, reimbursements, and the use o f the special accounts. The project will
be eligible to use report-based disbursements after providing Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
satisfactory to Bank and maintaining a satisfactory project rating. FMRs that are required under
FMR-based disbursements will be prepared by Project Management Unit. They will be used to assess
progress towards meeting the requirements of FMR-based methods of disbursement. At the time of
conversion, the project will prepare a reconciliation o f project expenditures, hsbursements received, and
Special Account movements up to the proposed date o f the conversion. Other details for the conversion will
be worked out closer to the time of conversion between the project team and Bank.

The two GEF Special Accounts (SA) denominated inCFAF will be opened ina commercial bank basedin
N'Djamena, on terms and conditions acceptable to The Bank. The first Special Account (SA-A) will be
usedexclusively to finance all the subprojects inform of Grants, the second Special Account (SA-B), will
be usedto finance items and activities such as goods and vehicles, consultant services and audits, training,
seminars and workshops and project operating costs. The authorized allocation for SA-A will be CFAF
250 million and will cover about four months o f eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation for SA-B
will be CFAF 250 million and will also cover about four months o f eligible expenditures. Upon Grant
effectiveness, The Bank will deposit the amount o f CFAF 250 million in SA-A, representing the total
allocation for that account, and CFAF 125 million inSA-B, representingapproximately 50 per cent o f the
authorized allocation o f this Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the


                                                   - 78 -

aggregate disbursementsunder categories 1, 2, 3 and 5 will exceed USD 1.5 million. The Special Accounts
will be used for all payments in an amount below 20% o f the initial deposit to the Special Account.
Replenishment applications will be submittedmonthly. Further deposits by the Bank into Special Accounts
will be made against withdrawal applications supportedby appropriate documents.

Under the report-based disbursements, the advance to the special account will be based on a forecast o f
expenditures for a period not exceeding 6 months. Replenishments will be made quarterly on the basis of
FMRsshowing expenditures made duringthe previous quarter, together with a forecast ofexpenditures for
the upcoming 6 monthperiod and reconciledbank statements.

Project account. The Borrower will open a Project Account (counterpart funds account) ina Commercial
bank,inaccordancewithterms andconditions acceptable to the Bank, inorder to receive the compensation
fundnecessaryto cover the part ofthe Borrower with respect to the total cost ofthe Project and under the
differentcategorieswhenever necessary. Beforethe effectiveness ofthe Project the Government will deposit
an initial contribution of FCFA 100million inthe Project Account and within six months of Effectiveness
Date, deposit into the Project Account an additional contribution of FCFA 100million andkeep it afloat in
time up to the amount of the initial deposit (FCFA 200 million), or whenever the balance of the account is
lower than FCFA 100 million. The Government will make ensure that amounts deposited in the Project
Account are used exclusively for the expenditures relating to goods, services and works as part o f the
different components of the Project.

2) Flow of funds.

Resources needed for financing of program activities will flow from (i) GEF Grant Account for Direct
                                                                        the
Payments to be made by the Bank to suppliers, (ii)    the GEF Special Accounts A and B maintained in
commercial banks in N'Djamena and acceptable to the Bank and (iii) Project Account for the
                                                                            the
counterpart funds. The Financial Management Specialist (FMS) o f the PROADEL and the GEF
Accountant will be incharge o f the financial managemento f the project.

The Coordinator of the PROADEL, the GEF Specialist, and the FMS o f the PROADEL will countersign
all the checks for the payments to be made under the Special Accounts A, B and the Project account. In
case o f absence of the Coordinator of PROADEL andor the FMS, the Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist and the Principal Accountant (the Accountant o f the PMU), together with the GEF Specialist
will countersign all the checks for payments to be made on these accounts. Incase of absence of the GEF
Specialist, the Ministry o f Environment and Water will designate somebody to countersign all the checks.
Inall case, all the three signaturesarerequired.

Under the supervision of the project FMS, the GEF Accountant will prepare all the supporting documents
for the replenishment of the Special Accounts to be submitted to the Bank through the Ministry o f
Planning. The Project Account will receive counterpart funds in compliance with the terms o f the GEF
Grant Agreement.




                                                   - 79 -

 Flow of funds scheme (see Annex 11of PAD)

                         Table C: Allocation of Development FinancingProceeds
IExpendituresCategory                      IGrant Amount in FinancingPercentage
                                            US%                                                         I
 Vehicles andEquipments                             300,000         1   100%of foreign expenditures
                                                                         82% o flocal exDenditures
 Consultant Services, Audits and Studies           1,400,000                       82%
 Trainings, Seminars & Workshops                    900,000                       100%
 Grants for Sub-projects                           2,500,000             100%o f amount disbursed
 OperatingCosts                                     600.000                        78%
 Unallocated                                        300,000
 Total GEF Grant                                  6,000,000,00

     FinancialManavementArranvements

 1)AccountingSystem, AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

   (i) computerized financial.managementsystem inplace for the management of the Local
       The
   Development Program Support Project, assessed acceptable to the Bank, will be extended and used for
   the GEF operations;

   (ii)The accountingactivities for GEFoperationswillbeundertheresponsibilityofthe FMSofthe
   PROADEL who will be helped by a GEF Accountant to be recruited specifically to handle the
   accounting activities of the GEF funds;

   (iii)specificGEFSpecialisthasbeenappointedontermsofreferenceacceptabletotheBank,
        A

   (iv) The production of a Project Administrative, Financial andAccounting Manual for GEF funds.

   The systemto beput inplace.

   The followingdevices willbeputinplace:

    0    A Steering Committee (Comite' d'Orientation et de Pilotage,COP) composed of different
         ministries involved inthe project implementation;

    0    A Project Management Unit (PMU) responsible for the day to day operations of the project,
         composed in particular by the PROADEL National Coordinator, the GEF Specialist, the
         PROADEL FMS and the GEF Accountant ;

     0   Capacity building activities in financial management to cany out to the benefit of Communities
         (Community-Based Organizations and Producer Organizations) by NGOs or Private Sector
         Agencies;



                                                    - 80 -

 0    A Project Administrative, FinancialandAccounting Manual for the PMUandthe LPMUs;

      A simplified financial management procedures manual for Community-Based Organizations
      (CBOs) andother localinstitutions ;

 0    The opening of the two GEF special accounts in a commercial bank inN'djamena to be managed
      bythe Coordinator o fthe PROADEL, the FMS ofthe PROADEL and the GEF Specialist;

 0    The opening of the GEF project account ina Commercial Bank inN'djamena to be managed as
       above.

2) RiskAssessment

Country Risks

Refer to the annex 6: PROADEL PAD

Project Risks

Refer to the annex 6: PROADEL PAD

3) Booksof Registry

In addition to the computerized accounting system installed, and the books needed to maintain an
accurate andcomplete record o f transactions, the GEF accountant will maintain a set o f additionalbooks
o f registry, for GEF operation.

4) Budgeting

The project annual budget will have to be approved by the Committee. Counterpart funds will have been
inscribed in the Government annual budget and therefore, budgeting for project counterpart funds will
follow the Government budget cycle.

5) FinancialReporting

Separate financial statements will be prepared for the GEF activities. They will comprise: (i)statement
                                                                                               a
o f source and application o f Funds for the project during the current financial year and cumulative since
the start o f the project; and(ii)balance sheet. These two financial statementswill be prepared annually.
                                a
Inaddition, the project management unit will submit quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs)
including financial reports, physical progress reports andprocurement/contracts reports, withn 45 days
of the end ofthe reportingperiod.

6) Audit Arrangements

Financial Audit. The financial statements o f the GEF activities will be audited for each fiscal year by
PROADEL auditor in accordance with standards on auditing. Audit reports o f reasonable scope and
detail will be submittedto the Bank within six months of the end o f the audited period. The auditor will
provide an opinion on: (i) project financial statements (statement o f Source and Application o f Funds
                             the
and Balance Sheet); (ii) statementof expenditures (SOE); and(iii) special account.
                           the                                           the


                                                  -81 -

Technical Audit. Contracts with beneficiaries, whose templates are appended to the PIM, refer to
micro-project techcal audits. They are ordered and managed systematically or randomly by the PMU or
the LPMUs. For this purpose, the Project canhire firms.

7) Staffing and Training

The Coordinator ofthe PROADEL, the PROADEL FMS andthe GEF Specialist will be responsible for
the management of the GEF Grant. The FMS o f PROADEL will oversee all accounting and financial
management duties and will be assistedby a GEF Accountant..

8) Training Plan

The Financial Management staff will attend workshops and training sessions on the new financial
management computerized system before project effectiveness. The FMS, the GEF Accountant, the
Procurement Specialist and the GEF Specialist will all be trained in procedures relating to the use o f
GEF funds (that is Special Accounts, SOEs, Procurement, FMR, etc.) and in Financial Management
including intemal controls, information systems andcomputer applications.

9) Monitoring and Supervision

Project monitoring will take the following forms:

0   Monthly and quarterly and half-yearly monitoring reports;
0   Annual extemal audit o f the Project.

Supervision will be carried out by the Project Financial Management Specialist (FMS) at least twice a
year but also before effectiveness and all along the implementation period. Half- yearly reports and also
annual audits and Management letters from the extemal auditors will be reviewed by the FMS. Close
supervision will also be performed by the field-based FMS, to ensure that the PMU financial
management system is operating adequately.




                                                  - 82 -

10) FinancialManagementAction Plan

Task                                                Responsibility     Completion date
1.Financial, Administrative andAccounting Manual.
                                                    PROADEWGCE         Done
0     Preparation o f TOR                           PROADEL/GCE        Done
0     Selection o f consultant                      Consultant         Done
0     Preparation of the draft manual               PROADEL/GCE      & Before Effectiveness

0     Review andvalidation o fmanual                Comitk Techruque
                                                    PROADEL/GCE and Before Effectiveness

0     Finalization and submission to IDA.           ComitCTechruque
2. ImplementationManual.
                                                    PROADEWGCE         Done
0     Preparation o f TOR                           PROADEL/GCE        Done
0     Selection o f consultant                      Consultant         Done
0     Preparation of the draft manual               PROADEL/GCE        Before Effectiveness

0     Review andvalidation of manual                Comitk Technique   Before Effectiveness

0     Finalization and submission to IDA.            PROADEL/GCE and
                                                     Comitk Technique
Open and make initial deposit in the Project Account PROADEL/GCE       Before Effectiveness
(counterpart funds account).




                                             - a3 -

                                Annex 7: ProjectProcessingSchedule
                  CHAD: Community-BasedEcosystem Management Project


  ProjectSchedule                                              Planned                          Actual

ITimetaken to preparethe project(months)
IFirst Bank mission(identification)
1 Appraisalmissiondeparture                         1II                            III         02/28/2005    III
                                                                                          ~~

  Negotiations                                               05/02/2005                        05/09/2005
  PlannedDate of Effectiveness                               09/30/2005


Prepared by:
     The project has beenprepared by a multi-disciplinary team with representatives from the Government
     as well as from the civil society. It was supervisedby Mrs Mahadie OuthmanIssa, from the Ministry
     o f Environment andWater.

 Preparationassistance:

PDFbfunds for US$250,000.

 Bank staff who worked on the proiect included:
          Name                                                      Iity
  Franqois Rantrua                           SFRSI, Senior Corporate Strategy Officer
  Noel Chabeuf                               AFTS3, Livestock and Pastoralism
  Valerie Layrol                             AFTS3, Rural Development Officer, Task Team Leader
  Soulemane Fofana                           AFTS3, Operations Analyst
  Ousmane Seck                               AFTS3, Senior Agncultural Specialist
  Glenn Hodes                                AFTS4, Environmental Specialist
  Nathalie Munzberg                          LEGAF, Counsel
  Emile Finateu                              AFTFM, Sr. Financial Management Specialist
  Hugues Agossou                             AFTFM, Sr. Financial Management Specialist
  Wolfgang Chadab                            LOAG2, Finance Officer
  Chloe Milner                               AFMTD, RuralDevelopment Specialist
  Korotimi Sylvie Traore                     AFTS3, Language Program Assistant
  Pierre Morin                               AFTPC, Sr. Procurement Specialist
  Henri Aka                                  AFTPC, Procurement Specialist
  Charles Donang                             AFTPC, Procurement Specialist
  Enos Esikuri                               ENV, Technical Specialist
  Thomas Walton                              AFTSD, Leadregional Coordinator




                                                       - 84 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                CHAD: Community-BasedEcosystem ManagementProject


A. Project ImplementationPlan

0  Manuel d'extcution volet GCE (avril2005) ;
0    Manuelde suivi et &valuation(avril2005) ;
     Manuelde Proctdures Administratives, Financieres et Comptables (mai 2005)


B. Bank Staff Assessments


0  (( Aide-mCmoire de lamission d'identification duPIDR (March 2001) ;
                                                         D
0  (( Aide-mtmoire de la mission d'tvaluation du PROADEL (December 2002) ;
                                                            ))

0  Decisionmeetingminutes(February2005) ;
0   ((Aide-mtmoire de lamissiond'tvaluation du volet GCE duPROADEL )) (March 2005).


C. Other

0   H Etude d'impact socio-environnementale du PROADEL (November 2002) ;
                                                          >)

0   ((Etude d'impact socio-environnementale duPSAOP (November 2002) ;
                                                       ))

0   ((Protectiondes barrages duPSAOP (November 2002) ;
                                        ))

0   ((Plan de gestion des pesticides duPSAOP (November 2002) ;
                                              ))

0   Various techtllcal documents on PRODABO andPRODALKA.
*Including electronic files




                                                 - 85 -

                                        Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                            CHAD: Community-Based EcosystemManagementProject
                                                             23-May-2005
                                                                                                                    Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                             and actual
                                                                   OriginalAmountin US$ Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                       Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO66998     2005 TD-LocalDev ProgSupAPL (FY05)                   0.00        0.00                       0.00    24.07        0.00      0.00
PO74266     2004 TDAgr Services& POS SIL (FY04)                  0.00       20.00                       0.00    19.97       -1 39      000
PO77240     2003 TD CRITICALELEC& WATER Services                 0.00       54.80                       0.00    37.51      2422        000
PO00527     2003 EducationSector Reform                          0.00       19.13                       0.00    45.05        783       422
PO72226     2002 2nd Pop &AIDS                                   0.00       24.56                       0.00     15.77       354       -1 49
PO35672     2001 TD Nat Tramp ProgramSupportProject              0.00       67.00                       0.00    44.11      37 13       000
P062840     2000 TD-PetroleumEconomyMgmt (FYOO)                  0.00       17.50                       0.00      1.55       093        000
P044305     2000 TDiCMPIPELINE                                  39.50        0.00                       0.00      3.05      -1 78       000
PO48202     2000 TD-Petroleum Sec Cap Bldg Pq (FYOO)             0.00       23.70                       0.00      0.95       7 41       0 00
PO55122     2000 HealthSector Support                            0.00       41.51                       0.00     15.88      1266       -1 89

                                                      Total:    39.50      268.20                       0.00    207.89      90.55       0.85




                                                                 CHAD
                                                           STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                              May - 2005
                                                         InMillions USDollars


                                                                               Committed                              Disbursed
                                                                            IFC                                   IFC
     FY Approval              Company                               Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
     2002                     FinadevTchad                           0.00       0.19      0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00
     2003                     Financial Tchad                        1.28       0.00      0.00     0.00      1.28      0.00        0.00      0.00
     2000                     TOTCO                                 13.90       0.00      0.00    13.90     13.90      0.00        0.00     13.90
                                      Total Portfolio:              15.18       0.19      0.00    13.90      15.18      0.00        0.00     13.90



                                                                         Approvals PendingCommitment
     FY Approval             Company                                    Loan      Equity        Quasi     Partic
     2002                    Finadev Tchad                              0.28        0.00        0.00        0.00

                             Total PendingCommitment:                   0.28        0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                  -86-

                                              Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                      CHAD: Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
                                                                  Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               Saharan     Low-
                                                         Chad     Africa  income
2003
Population, mid-yearfmillions)                             8.6      703     2,310               Life expectancy
GNI percapita(Atlas method, US$)                           240      490      450
GNi (Atlasmethod, US$ billionsJ                            2.1      347     1,038

Average annual growth, 1997-03                                                                         7
Population(%J                                              3.0       2 3      1 9
Laborforce (%J                                             3.1       2 4      2 3   3NI                                Gross
                                                                                    Der                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                               =pita                            nroliment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownabonalpovertyline)
UrbanpopulationI%of totalpopulation)                        25        36       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                              48        46       58                      1
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                       117      103        82
Child malnutntion(% of children under5)                     28                 44        Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)          27        58       75
IlliteracyI%ofpopulationage f5+)                            54        35       39
Grossprimaryenrollment I%of school-agepopulabon)            73        87       92
    Male                                                    90        94       99    -Chad              Low-income group

    Female                                                  57        80       85

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983    1993     2002      2003
                                                                                    Economicratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                 0 83     1.5      2 0      2 6
Grossdomesttc investmenVGDP                         2 7    9.8      61 9     53 1
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                    164     13.3     122      20 6                    Trade

Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                           -44     -6.2      9 8     21 0
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                          -3 5    -5.2     104       14 1

Currentaccountbalance/GDP                          -9.1   -15.0    -51 5     -39 0
InterestpaymentdGDP                                 0.0     0.5       0 4     0 4
TotaldebffGDP                                      26.4   52.7      83 8     56 9
Totaldebt service/exports                           1.o     8.5     102       8 5
Presentvalueof debffGDP                                             30 4
Presentvalue of debffexports                                      244 1                           Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 1993-03      2002     2003   2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       3.8       4.3    10.5       9 7     110                        Low-incomegroup
GDP percapita                             1.1       I.I 7.3           6.6     17.8


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                   1983   1993     2002      2003
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        39.2    32.5     38.7      45.6
industry                                           13.3    14.1     15.4      13.5
    Manufacturing                                  11.1    11.2     13.5      11.5
Services                                           47.6    53.5

Privateconsumption                                 98.3    96.2
Generalgovernment consumption                       6.1    10.0
Imports of goods and services                      23.5    29.3     64.2      52.6

                                                1983-93 1993-03    2o02      2003
(average annualgrowth)                                                               Growthof exportsand imports(%)

Agriculture                                          3.8    4.9       9.5     31.0  150
Industry                                             2.7    6.9       I.3     -3.7  1w
    Manufacturing
Services                                             3.9    3.4     13.0       0.4   50

Privateconsumption                                   1.9    4.0     13.6       5.0
Generalgovernment consumption                        5.8    I.6       9.7      3.0  50
Grossdomesticinvestment                              9.7   26.5     56.7     -16.6         -Exports          *Imports
Importsof goods and services                         2.7   15.6     51.2     -12.3




                                                                - 87 -

                                                                                                               Chad

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983  1993    2002   2003
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                             15

Consumer prices                                -7.0     5.2   -1.8     10
ImplicitGDPdeflator                      0.0   -1.3     3.9   -0.5      5

Governmentfinance                                                       0

(% of GDP, includescurent granfs)                                       5
Currentrevenue                           2.7    7.9     7.8    8.0     -10
Current budgetbalance                          -4.6    -2.0   -1.6    1        WGDPdeflator                          I
Overallsurpluddeficit                                                                               -CPl
                           ,                  -12.3    -5.4   -5.8

TRADE
                                        1983  I993    2002   2003
(US$mi//ions)                                                            Exportand import levels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            152     172    455
 Cotton                                         57      48     71           T
 Cattle                                         44      75     107       750
 Manufactures                                     0
Total imports (cif)                            423     812    830       5w

 Food                                             6
 Fueland energy                                   4     27     36       250

 Capital goods                                 125                         0

Export price index (1995=100)                   115     64     105            97   98   99     00     01    02
                                                                                                                  O3  1
Importprice index (1995=100)                    134     63      74
Termsof trade (1995=100)                        86      101    143

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993    2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                          Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (Oh)

Exportsof goods and services             102    195     245    543       0
Imports of goods and services            177   429    1,295  1.388
Resource balance                         -74   -234  -1,050   -845     -10


Net income                                  1   -12     -30   -272     -20

Netcurrenttransfers                       -3    26      43      89     -30

Current account balance                  -76   -219  -1,038  4,029     -40

Financingitems(net)                       94    187   1,104    981     5 0
Changes in net reserves                  -17    32      -67     48

Memo:
ReserveshClUdhggold (US$ millions)                      213    165
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/US$)        381.1 283.2   696.0  581.O

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1983   1993   2002   2003
/US$millions1                                                           Compositionof 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt ouistanding and disbursed     219    772   1,285  1,499
  IBRD                                      0     0       9     31                   F 13    23
  IDA                                     36    284     623    773                               A. ?1


Total debt service                          1    17      26     46
  IBRD                                      0     0       0      0
  IDA                                       0     2       5      7

Composaionof net resourceflows                                              D 420

  Official grants                         71    106      95                                                 B 773
  Officialcreditors                       12     53      87    111
  Privatecreditors                          2    -1      -1      0
  Foreigndirect investment                  0    15     901      0
  Porffoiioeauitv                           0     0       0      0                C 106

World Bank program
  Commitments                               0    56      55     79      A - IBRD                        E Bilateral
  Disbursements                             0    25      73    116       B IDA
                                                                          -       D Other multilateral
                                                                                    .                   F Private
  PrinciDal repavments                      0     0       2      2      C IMF
                                                                           .                            G Short-term
                                                                                                         ---
  Netflows                                  0    24      71    114
  interestpayments                          0     2       4      5
  Nettransfers                              0    22      67    109

Development tconomics                                                                                         lull 3/04




                                                      - 88 -

                      Additional Annex I 1:[Flow of Funds]
            CHAD: Community-Based Ecosystem ManagementProject




                        GEF GrantAccount                              CounterpartFunds
                         InWashington                                  (Government)


   GEFSpecialAccount                             GEFSpecialAccount
   SA-A [Sub-projets]                                  SA-B

 I I   1                                                    I

 PMU




I      1
  Communities
   Accounts




                                 Service providersI suppliers

I                                                                                         I




                                           - 89 -

                  Additional Annex 12: Review by Expert from STAP Roster

                 CHAD: Community-BasedEcosystemManagementProject

Dr.Ciro Gardi
Professor of Geopedology
University o f Parma (Italy)
Department o f Environmental Science
Parco Area delle Scienze, 33A
43100Parma (ITALY)
Tel:    +39 521 905692
Fax:    +39 521906611
e-mail:ciro gardiaunipr it
            .             .

Key issues

Scientific and technical soundness of the project

Soil degradation process and loss of biodiversity are considered the major threat for the future o f our
planet. Chad, one of the poorest countries o f the world, is facing both o f these threats. Deforestation, soil
quality degradation and desertification represent a sequence o f process that in Chad is exacerbatedby the
increasing demographic pressure. The unsustainableuse o f wood fuel and charcoal, and overgrazing are the
factors promoting a vicious circle that lead to ecological damages and soil degradation. Within the main
objective o f Chad Government to reduce poverty and to promote sustainable development, biodiversity
conservation represents the priority o f the GEF Project, although other focal areas are involved. The
current scientific theory o f both ecology and social science seems to be fulfilled. The ecological approach
include the preservation o f both natural and agricultural biodiversity, including       genetic, species and
landscape diversity. The social aspects reflect the actual guidelines to promote a participatory mechanism
with local communities and to shft towards a decentralized approach to natural resources management.
The GEF intervention will allows better integration of environmental aspects in the ongoing development
programs. The need to avoid irreversible environmental damages is essential in a transitional economy,
where the change induced by the oil revenues can be very fast. Biodiversity conservation will be acheved
through distinct mechanisms operating at two different scales:

         at local scale the co-financing mechanism of sub-project related to biodiversity conservation and
support to local community for capacity building;

         at broader scale applying the integrated ecosystemmanagement principles,




                                                    - 90 -

Identification of the Global Environmental Benefits

Within the sub-saharanregion, Chad has unique, globally important ecosystems that are at risk of serious
irreversible degradation; firthennore the ecosystem fragility is exacerbated by demographic pressure and
land-use conflicts. Even if environment and nature protection is a priority in Chad, the scarcity of
governmental resources require an increase in external financing to achieve an effective biodiversity
conservation policy. Within this framework the GEF project aims to integrate the environmental issues into
the Chad development policy. The environmental benefits deriving from the success o f the project are
clearly identifiedand concernmainly biodiversity conservation and soil protection.

Fit within the context of the goals of GEF and relevant Conventions

Project fits well within the goals, strategies andpriorities o f the GEF. It also fits well within the objectives
o f the Biodiversity, Desertification and Climate Conventions. IfLake Chad and Lake Fitriwill be included
inthe priorityzones alsothe RamsarConvention onwetlandswillbe fittedbythe activitiesproposed inthe
project.

Regional Context

All the proposed activities will be realized within Chad, however the environmental and socio-economic
conditions o f Chad canbe considered representative o f the wider area including the sub-saharan countries.

Replicability of the project

The fight against desertification, soil and biodiversity conservation and poverty reduction represent
common issues for the sub-saharan region and for most countries of the Afncan continent. The possible
achievement o f these results through a participatory approach, will allow t h s project to become a model for
manyAfrican countries

Sustainability of the project

The sustainability of the project relies on the progressive integration of donor financing with other
financing mechanism, such as:

         ordinary public resources;
         oil revenues;
         subproject beneficiary provision;
         local taxes for natural resources use;
         The long-term risk of PROADEL failure due to the lack of financing has beenratedas "medium".




                                                     -91  -

Secondarv issues

Linkage to other focal areas

This project is a clear case of multifocal activity. Evenif it is stated that biodiversity is the priority focal
area, many of the proposal activities will improve soil quality, andpromote carbon storage inboth, soil and
biomass. Consequently the project has a clear llnk with the climate change focal area and to the soil
conservation issues. The reduction o f wood harvesting and the increase in soil organic carbon stocks, will
significantly reduce GHGemissions.

Linkage to other programs and action plans at regional or subregional level

GEF activities are adequately linked with other international and national programs in Chad. Special
coordination is realized between the first phase of PROADEL project and the GEF that will subsidize
incremental activities which will have a positive impact on the global environment. Coordination will be
realized also with other ongoing programs inChad financed by GEFAJNDP, IDA, European Commission,
bilateral cooperation. The objectives of the project are inaccordancewith the National EnvironmentalPlan,
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan andNational Action PlanAgainst the Desertification.

Degree of involvement of stakeholdersin the project

The project is based on the Community Driven Development (CCD) approach, according whrch a strong
and effective participation of beneficiary     is recommended. All over the project the importance o f
strengtheninglocal capacity and increasing stakeholders involvement is emphasized. It is especially under
the PROADEL component 1 (Financial support to local development subprojects) and the component 2
(Capacity building for communities) that the importance o f participatory approach is stressed. The
matclung grants o f component 1 will be assigned to local community subprojects presented by groups o f
stakeholders. The management o f protected areas and the identification o f new priority intervention zones
will involve the participationof community leadersandthe use of indigenous knowledge.


Capacity building aspects

As indicated in the previous paragraph, the project includes many activities to promote and involve the
indigenous knowledge and the capacity building, especially with respect to natural resources andprotected
area management.Specific training and organizational support will improve the skills o f communities inthe
integratedecosystemmanagement.

Innovativenessof the projects

The project presents many innovative aspects:

        coordination between a Community Driven Development approach withthe needs o f environmental
protection;

        large scale application ofthe integratedecosystemmanagement;

        possibility to scale-up the project;


                                                     - 92 -

         support to decentralization process;

         widespread use o f participatory approach and capacity buildingo f local community;

         small, localproject co-financing;

         involvement of local communities inthe managemento fprotected area;

         use o f oil revenues for ruralsustainable development;

         sound environmental monitoring systembasedon GIS techniques and on a set o f ecological
indicators.

                                        Responseto STAP Review



The project i s very well conceived and has a       Replication, dissemination, and scale-up of
highpotentialto improve environmental               specijic techniques and interventions that
management all over the country. Particularly       successfully ameliorate local land and water
interesting is the possibility to scale up the      management as well aspromote effective
interventions from local to basin or broader        biodiversity conservation at the ecosystem level is
scale.                                              an explicit goal of theproject. This will be
                                                    emphasized in threepriority areas




Few details on the scientific andtechcal            More detailed environmental studies will be
aspects of the environmental measures are           undertaken on ecosystems in the identijied priority
provided. Selection criteria o f the proposed       zones and studies of land management techniques
activities inecosystempreservation,                 that maximize economic and environmental returns
reforestation, fight against desertification, soil  in each area are underway through GEFPDF-B
conservation and sustainable agculture are not support. I n addition, an environmental and social
articulated. For instance, is there any option for  assessmentof the PROADEL has been undertaken
organic agriculture? Will be a shift from cotton before appraisal aspart of the conditions of IDA
basedagnculture towards a multi-crop                support. As a result of these measures,final
agriculture? What will be the methodology           eligibility andprioritization criteriafor
adopted for reforestation?                          subprojects that will beproposed by communities
                                                    under component #Ihave been determined and
                                                    will be refined for the GEFsupported subprojects
                                                    and integrated into the IEM Guideline Document.
                                                    Baseline activities, to include those under
                                                    PROADEL, and, inparticular, ASPOP, will
                                                    support communities andproducers 'organizations
                                                    in theproject boundary area to diversifi their
                                                    agricultural cultivation, adopt co-cropping
                                                    strategies and sustainable agricultural techniques


                                                     - 93 -

                                               e.g., direct seeding), and pursue
                                               iigher-value-added exports, that may include
                                               ,ertiJably organicproduce.


Inareasneighboringwetland ecosystems,           Through the baseline       and GEF activities,
particular attention should be devoted to       communities will receive training on sustainable
agriculture and pastoralism. Irrigation,        agricultural   cultivation techniques,   including
pesticide andfertilizer application, cropland  pesticide and fertilizer management and their
expansion and overgrazing are the most decisive environmental impacts. A pest management plan
activity negatively influencingthe ecosystem    has been prepared during preparation of ASPOP
functions and biodiversity.                     to assess risks and propose mitigation measures.
                                                In terms of pastoral activities, one strategy that
                                                will bepromoted is theplanting of fodder grasses
                                                in buffer zones surrounding wetlands and grazing
                                                corridors in order to prevent encroachment by
                                               pastoralists into core wetland areas that can
                                                cause permanent desiccation. Given that a large
                                                share of pastoralists in Chad are migratory,
                                                redoubled efforts will be placed on raising
                                                awareness and building capacity in interchanges
                                                and respite locations.


I s there any plannedactivity concerning the   The objective of theproject in this domain is to
evaluation or functionality of ecological      Ytrengthen the managementplans of existing or
"network ofprotected areas"?                   mminently planned protected areas in thepriority
                                               :ones, inparticular integrating community
                                               7articipation andjoint management principles.
                                               dlthough establishing afunctional network or
                                               vider corridor or protected areas would be
                                               mportant, the GEF- supported Lake Chad Basin
                                               woject,for example, is operating at a much larger
                                               patial scale and is better positioned to tackle
                                               iome of these issues. As PROADEL is structured
                                               1s an APL, there will be an opportunity to consider
                                               `his objective in a subsequently project, which may
                                               5e eligiblefor additional GEFsupport at that time.



Reclamation of arable landshouldbe carefully   This comment will be taken into consideration in
evaluated inorder to avoid irreversible soil   `heProject Implementation Manual (PIM).
degradation processandor of site damagesto
wetlands.




                                                - 94 -

Direct seeding is beneficial, but in some cases    Crop rotation and cover crops can be used to
require herbicides. Use o fherbicides shouldbe     lnanage weeds without resorting to herbicides in
avoided inareas that abut wetlands or              the event that direct seeding is deemed an
vulnerable areas @e. groundwater                   zppropriate local strategy. I t should be recalled
vulnerability). "Greater access to apcultural      that the majority of smallholders in Chad cannot
inputs" included inGovernmental strategy can       zfford agricultural inputs such asfertilizer and
insome casesconflict with sustainability goals.    herbicides. GEF incremental activities under the
                                                   umbrella of PROADEL and ASPOP will ensure
                                                   that use of these inputs, where desirable and
                                                   xonomicallyfeasible, follows bestpractices for
                                                   wvironmentalsustainability.


Some o f the key performance indicators could      Underproject componentfour, theproject will
be tacked usingremote sensing techniques.          rtrengthen environment information and analysis
                                                   `n thepriority areas, which will include the use of
                                                   pemote sensing and GISpanel data. Forest
                                                   :overage and water resource availability will be
                                                   wonitored inparticular.


Could you give more details on the sustainable     With GEFBlock-B support, targeted research is
agnculture techques that should be adopted?        5eing undertaken to identi&, spec$cally, the most
The effective environmental benefit of these       zppropriate, economically viable, and
technique should be evaluated on a case-by-case znvironmentally beneficial agricultural techniques
basis, paying attention to possible negative       2nd land management interventionsfor each of the
side-effects.                                      `argetedpriority zones. Thus, these
                                                   vecommendations will be carried out on a
                                                   :ase-by-case basis. The assessments will consider
                                                   rome of thefollowing techniques: direct seeding,
                                                   "cordons pierreux", integrated crop-livestock
                                                   dots, better crop management, rainwater
                                                   harvesting, integrated plant nutrition management,
                                                   2nd better residue and manure management.
                                                   4lthough many of these measures increase soil
                                                   brtility and soil organic carbon retention, other
                                                   yotential negative social and environmental
                                                   ride-effects will be taken into account during
                                                   Yroiect imdementation.


"Open-access" land-use policies represent a         Both the baselineand GEF incrementalactivities
threat for natural resources conservation. How      support highly participatory processesfor local
c a n this be addressed w h l e avoiding conflict   engagement and active management of shared natural
with local traditions and cultures ?                resources,land being aforemost concern. These
                                                    processes will include the integration of indigenous
                                                    knowledgeand traditional leaders in local
                                                    developmentplanning that takes into accountIEM
                                                    principles. In creating incentivesfor local
                                                    managementand collective responsibilityfor
                                                    renewable natural resources,it is believedthat
                                                    conflict can be minimizedand resourceuse will be


                                                    - 95 -

                                                     better rationalized.

The evaluationprocess of LDPs and subproject Representatives of technical ministries would be on
proposals is very articulated and starts from a     the committees in charge of reviewing LDPs and
local level (sub-prefectoral), I s there any riskof subprojects proposals, thereby helping to ensure
"particularism" due to this method o f              consistency with national policies and standards.
evaluation?                                         Technicians in charge of assisting communities in
                                                    thepreparation of LDPs and subprojects would
                                                    work in close collaboration with local Project
                                                   Management Units and use common tools such as
                                                    the IEM Guideline Document. Thesetools, will
                                                    among other things, establish apositive list of
                                                    eligible subprojects, thus avoiding any
                                                   particularity in subprojects or LDPs.Finally,
                                                   Departmental Development Frameworks
                                                    integrating all strategies and taking into
                                                    consideration all current development activities
                                                    will beprepared under PROADEL to ensure better
                                                    consistency between local and centralized
                                                    activities.


How is it determinedwhen anareabecomes              Thekey performance indicators have been reJined
"protected from degradation"? What are the          since STAP submission and this is not longer an
criteria?                                           indicator.




                                                     - 96 -

MAP SECTION


