ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frra of Poverty
lnfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/21/2002                                 25150
Section I - Basic Information                                  November 21, 2002
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: CHAD                                    Project ID: P066998
Global Supplemental ID: P078138
Project: Local Development Program               Task Team Leader: Francois Rantrua
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 15, 2002   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: September 18, 2003                IDA Amount ($m): 0.00
Global Supplemental Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTR2                             Sector: Other social services (60%); Sub-national
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  government administration (20%); Central
Status: Lending                                  government administration (20%)
Theme: Decentralization (P); Rural services and
infrastructure (P); Other human development (P);
Civic engagement; participation and community driv
(S); Poverty strategy; analysis and monitoring (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The 1Project (intended as Phase I of the Local Development Program) will assist the GOC in designing
and implementing a decentralized and participatory financing mechanism that aims to empower local
communities and decentralized authorities to manage development funds transparently way and
according to their own priorities. Specifically Phase I of the project will initiate and test, in a limited
number of areas, the community-based approach while helping the GOC develop a coherenit regulatory
framework for the decentralization process and a master plan for its implementation. The project will
also initiate pilot activities on current natural resource management issues (particularly land tenure,
pastoralism and water), in order to identify solutions to be implemented in subsequent phases of the
project.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will have four componen(i) support to local development sub-projects, (ii) capacity
building for communities, (iii) support to the decentralization pW&s0iv)management and
information support.
Component 1: Support to local development sub-projects
This component will propose a matching grant facility to co-finance sub-projects proposed by local
communities (associations, organizations, etc.) or decentralized authorities. Its purpose is to reduce



2
ISDS
poverty by stimulating local development and improving communities' livelihood. The component will
be demand-driven and thus will finance almost any type of community-based and nonproductive
sub-project communities deem important, so long as it is not included on a negative list and it meets the
eligibility criteria set out in the PIP. Sub-projects will be submitted as part of Community Development
Plans, which communities will have elaborated following a participatory assessment of their needs. The
program will finance (i) small social infrastructures, (ii) natural resource management activities and (iii)
larger-scale and more expensive collective infrastructure projects that will affect several villages/cantons.
Special attention will be given to projects that provide evidence of sustainability measures, such as (i) the
proposed establishment  of a sustainable maintenance scheme (management committee, financial
resources), (ii) capacity building of beneficiaries for maintenance of the project or (iii) existence of
necessary human resources (health personnel, teachers, etc.).
The program has been designed to support and to comply with th'e decentralization framework. One of
the goals of the program will be to support fiscal decentralization by having funds flow through
decentralized authorities, once they have been democratically elected.
Given the demand-driven multi-sector nature of the program, the sub-projects are likely to touch upon a
wide spectrum of sectors, such as health, education, transport, energy, water and sanitation. These
micro-projects will have to be consistent with national policy.
Component 2: Capacity Building for Communities
The objective of this component is to strengthen technical and organizational capacity at the community
level with regard to participatory approaches, needs assessments, project management and access to
credit or new poverty-reduction behavior. It will specifically target local communities and their
associations, decision committees and PRODEL's Units, as well as service providers (training
institutions, NGOs, MFI). The component will have three sub-components:
- Support to participatory assessments and development plans preparatio i) participatory needs
assessments, (ii) organization of the communities and decision committees election, (iii)
development plans preparation, (iv) sub-projects implementation. and (iii) modules designed to
improve LDF-related capacities of the beneficiaries;
- Trainings: (i) strengthening of decision committees and PRODEL's Units so they can execute the
activities envisaged under the program, and (ii) campaigns to influence behavior conducive to
poverty reduction;
- Institutional support to micro finance institutionto provide efficient financial services to poor
communities in rural areas.
Component 3: Support to the Decentralization
While the program is being designed independent of the decentralization process, the overall objective of
the proposed support is to assist the GOC in the effective implementation of its decentralization policy,
which is still in its early stages. The PRODEL includes the following three sub-components:
- Support for the completion of the legal and regulatory frameworks studies and technical support to
the Ministry of Decentralization in the completion of existing draft laws and their application texts;
- Capacity building at the central, regional and local levels;
- A land tenure pilot operation at the central and local levels.
Component 4: Management and Information Support
The Management and Information Support component will support project coordination and monitoring



3
ISDS
and evaluation, through two sub-components:
- Project Management, which will finance the Project Management Entities operating costs
- Program Monitoring and Evaluation which will rely on (i) a Monitoring & Evaluation System to
follow activities in financial and technical terms, and (ii) a Knowledge Management System for
decision makers.
Institutional arrangements
The program will be placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Plan, Development and
Cooperation (Ministere du Plan, du Developpement et de la Cooperation - MPDC).
Implementation period
The program is scheduled to be implemented over a 12-year period, and the proposed project represents
its first phase (out of three phases). The duration of each phase will depend on the progress made in
attaining the predefined triggers.
Program implementation
Implementation of the PRODEL will be concurrent with the decentralization process the GOC began in
1996. Therefore the program's institutional arrangements have been designed to comply with the
decentralization framework, especially with regard to the futurecbmmunautWs ruraleF which will be
created under a just enacted Law (June 7, 2002). An important level will also be this of the 7 or 8
"Regions" to be established, but there is no legal framework for interventions at this level yet. Although
six levels are recognized or to be recognized in the administrative organization of the country (national,
regional, departmental,ous-prefectoral, cantonal/communal, village), only five are involved in
PRODEL's organization:
- Community level: village level in rural areas and district level in urban areas; it is understood that
this will be the level of the "Communaut6s rurales" just created, when the Law becomes effective
through implementation texts.
- lower intermediary level: PRODEL's implementation requires a decision level as close to the base
communities as possible, but at which major Government services are already represented. This is
why the "sous-prefectoral" level has been selected and not the "canton", where the central
Government is only represented by a single auxiliary with limited prerogatives. At this level, there
are 108 sous-pr6fectures, which are the emanation of the central government.
- The middle intermediary level is the department. Instead of the "sous-prefectoral" level, the
PRODEL decision level could also be at the level of the department, depending on the local human
capacities and the demographic pressure;
- central level.
At the village/district level, local communities will regroup themselves in a village/district assembly
where all the local shareholders will meet. This Assembly will be endowed with a Secretariat to organize
the meetings and write the reports. The meetings will provide communities the opportunity to assess their
needs and to prepare Community Development Plans in a participatory manner. Communities will also
elect representatives for the Local Decision Committee (Sous-Prefecture level).
The LDC will regroup representatives from all the villages/districts and from deconcentrated line
ministries and will be responsible for (i) approving the Village Development Plan/District Development
Plan, (ii) consolidating the plans intSous-Prefectoral Development Plan, (iii) approving sub-project
proposals that have been submitted and (iv) monitoring the implementation of those projects.
Deconcentrated line ministries (ous-prefecture/Prefecture level) will be involved to provide technical
expertise and to ensure compliance with national standards and policy. Their technical clearance will be



4
ISDS
required prior to the approval of the development plans and sub-projects.
If sub-projects concern severalsous-prefectures, an ad-hoc Departmental Decision Committee will rule
on the requests.
At the central level, a Comite d'Orientation et de Pilotage (COP) will be established, the status of which
will be defined by legal texts. The COP will consist of representatives of ministries and institutions
associated with the program (13 ministries, donors, NGOs), and representatives of the Decision
Committees. The COP will (i) approve the annual work-plan, (ii) review activities to be undertaken, (iii)
approve budgets and procurement plans and (iv) decide on PRODEL staff recruiting. The possibility of a
joint COP for PRODEL, ASPOP and the PRSP will be discussed during appraisal.
Program Management and Monitoring
Day-to-day management of the project activities will be assigned to a Project Management Unit (UGP),
consisting of recruited personnel (individuals, NGO and/or consulting firm). The UGP will be a small
management team staffed with: a coordinator proficient in development projects management, a technical
pole (capacity building specialist, monitoring & evaluation specialist, computer specialist) and an
operational pole (financial specialist, accountant, procurement specialist). The UGP's responsibilities
will be to: (i) coordinate the overall implementation of the project, (ii) manage project activities
implemented at the central level, (iii) ensure funds availability, (iv) maintain the books and the accounts
of the project activities and produce financial reports, (v) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the
work program and its impact, (vi) report results to various stakeholders (administration, donors, civil
society, projects, decision committees) and (vii) provide technical assistance to Local Management Units
(UGLs).
UGLs, based in each region, will be responsible for the coordination of program activities within the
region. They will be comprised of an administrator, a monitoring & evaluation specialist, a procurement
specialist and an accountant. Instead of being directive, they will concentrate their efforts on support
activities to local communities in constant consultation with local stakeholders. The UGLs will be
responsible for (i) carrying out capacity-building activities at the local level, (ii) managing the funds of
the LDF, (iii) assisting decision committees in plans/projects approval and monitoring, (iv) monitoring
and evaluating the program activities at the regional level and (v) reporting to local stakeholders and to
the UGP.
For each component, the preliminary cost estimates are as follows:
Components:
Support to local development sub-projects  US$ 12.0 millions
Capacity building for communities        US$ 2.0 millions
Support to decentralization              US$ 3.0 millions
Management and Information support       US$ 2.4 millions
PPF                                      US$ 0.6 millions
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project (Phase I of the Program) will cover 9 departments (out of 28) which have been chosen by the
Government of Chad under the following criteria: (i) agro-ecological zone, (ii) population density, (iv)



5
ISDS
level of economic activities, (v) presence of rural infrastructure, (vi) social organisation, (vi) presence of
local expertise (NGO, consulting firm) and civil work companies, (vii) no concurrent project, (viii)
presence of thematic projects with which synergy is possible. Selected departments are as follows and
present the following characteristics:
Sabellian zone: Barh el Gazal, Batha ouest.
This zone is predominantly pastoral and its economic activity is characterized by nomadic movements of
herders in search of food and water for their livestock. The full agricultural potential of this area is
underused, notwithstanding the major limitation imposed by scarcity of water. In addition to the limits
imposed by availability of water, rural development is hindered by the area's isolation and lack of
services.Hot, dry winds blow across the land bringing desiccation and incipient desertification in their
wake. The ecology is fragile: droughts, erosion, deforestation and bush fires threaten the viability of the
rangeland vegetation and the animals, both wild and domestic.
Sahelo-Sudanian zone: Dababa, Hadjer Lamis, Baguirmi, Salamat
The region is rich in biodiversity and presents several wildlife reservesor other protected areas. The rural
economy of this central region is based on cereal production, livestock (transhumance) and gum arabic.
Access to water is often an issue and determines land use. The current rural development includes low
literacy, education levels and health due to the difficulty of delivering services, and economic
development in the region is hindered by its isolation from any major market. The zone is highly likely to
attract immigrant populations from other areas in the future, leading to increased pressure on biodiversity
and ecosystems in the longer run. Soil erosion and water management, especially groundwater, will be
additional issues to concern.
Sudanian zone: Mandoul, Boneye and Tandjile Est.
Mainly rural small-holders live in this zone and represent 40% of the country's population on 10% of the
land (the whole sudanian zone considered). Population density is higher than in other zones and some
agricultural areas have up to 60-100 inhabitants per km2 and are reaching saturation. Soil exhaustion and
environmental degradation are critical issues. Generally this results from a short-term strategy of
extensive farming with no investment in techniques of soil regeneration and preservation. When soil is
exhausted, people move on to seek new land to convert to agricultural use. In a region where
demographic pressure is increasing, the last available areas of natural vegetation are being cleared,
precipitating widespread degradation of the ecosystems, loss of native plants and animals, and
introducing the threat of future desertification.
The Project will launch its activities in the following three departments (one per agro-ecological zone)
Barh el Gazal, Dababa and Mandoul. A GEF financed project is being prepared concomitantly to the
PRODEL. A PDF-B preparation study will identify zones for priority attention (in the whole country)
and while the PRODEL will cover all communities, some preference will be given to the ones which will
be in or at the border of these zones.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: The Project is based on the community driven development process. It will co-finance
sub-projects decided by local communities through financial intermediaries. It will require a safeguard
framework that will be defined during preparation.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes ^ No



6
ISDS
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       * Yes . No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                *                 Yes   No
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                  Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*             Yes * No
Projects in Intemational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevanit questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Due to the community-driven nature of the program, in which sub-projects are decided by communities,
it is impossible to know up front their exact environrnental impacts. However the EA has concluded that
the sub-projects might trigger the Environmental Assessment safeguard policy, the Natural Habitats
safeguard policy, the Cultural Property safeguard policy and the Involuntary resettlement safeguard
policy. But the EA has not identified major social and environmental PRODEL impacts, although it has
noted that certain environmental problems may arise from sub-projects if they are not adequately
screened prior to funding. For example, the EA has identified that of all the sub-projects potentially
funded by the PRODEL, road improvement or construction remains the sector of intervention the most
likely to represent significant negative impacts on the environment and local communities.
The screening process of sub-projects is detailed in the EA. See paragraph 3 for a detailed description of
these measures.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The EA has not identified potential cumulative impacts. However, screening process will also be
supervised at the regional and central level to carefully monitor potential cumulative impacts of
multiple similar sub-projects in one particular area.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Positive long-term impacts are expected from the project through communities empowerment in natural
resources management, environmental sub-projects financing and through the parallel GEF initiative
activities.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
This is a simple community-driven development project and project's alternatives are not relevant.
Nevertheless, considering the long-term extension of the PRODEL, the EA suggests to see alternatives to
submitted sub-projects on the basis of development activities already being implemented by PRODEL in
a previous stage.This strategy will enable the PRODEL to capitalize on best practices.



7
ISDS
HI.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
An environmental and social assessment of the project has been conducted during preparation, it includes
also an Environmental and Social Management Plan. In addition, a Resettlement Policy Framework has
been prepared and annexed to the EA. The EA recommendationsare as follows:
*   Environmental concerns will be included in the Community Development Plan preparation process,
when prioritizing and identifying interventions with the communities, to enable them to make
environmentally sound development choices and related trainings will be provided to the "
Animateurs". Community awareness about the environmental and social impact of project-funded
activities and ways to mitigate or avoid negative effects can be dissiminated through the project's
information, education and communication activities. Other information about appropriate
construction materials and methods in environmentally sensitive areas, site selection criteria, and
other measures to mitigate likely adverse impacts could be disseminated through technical
handbooks, etc.
*   Specific modalities for supporting improved natural resource management activities will be included.
Lower conterparts from the communities will be asked and the parallel GEF is expected to co-finance
as well natural resources management sub-projects;
*   An environmental and social screening, evaluating, and supervising mechanism will be created to
ensure that all funded subprojects are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable, and that
any adverse environmental and/or social consequences are recognized early in the project cycle. Such
mechanism will allow knowing in advance the major environmental and social issues and impacts of
individual subprojects, the set of measures to avoid them, minimize or mitigate those which are
unavoidable, and the estimated costs of those measures. "ComitWs de D&ision et d'Approbation de
niveau Sous-prefectoral" will be responsible for sub-projects environmental and social evaluation, as
it has been defined in the EA, and representatives of the Ministry of Environment will be included
within these comittees to. Checklists to be used and screening process will be incorporated in the
implementation manuals. A specific social and environmental cell will be created within the UGP
and each UGL to supervise sub-projects social and environmental evaluations, trainings, and monitor
the implementation of the social and environmental management plan. Specific trainings will be
provided in social and environmental evaluations to CDANSP, UGL, UGP and partners;
*   Establishment of a legal framework for environment and social assessments in Chad and define a
responsible body wihtin a Ministry to review EAs of development projects to be implemented in
Chad.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
A firm has been hired by the Borrower to undertake the social and environmental assessment of the
PRODEL and work began in April 2002. A draft has been reviewed by the Government of Chad and by
ASPEN and comments have been integrated in the report. A consultant has also been hired to complete
the resettlement policy framework which has been reviewed and approved by the Borrower and ASPEN
and has been integrated within the EA. The final EA report will be disclosed in country and at the World
Bank's Infoshop before the beginning of the appraisal mission.
PRODEL activities are community-based and have been and will be openly discussed in village meetings
during the process of community facilitation, which most often will encourage focused discussion with



8
ISDS
specific interest groups like youth, women and elders. These meetings will lead up to sub-project
identification, prioritization, planning and local agreement, which factors in all community groups
concerns. Then communities will be responsible for sub-projects implementation.
Activities are also to de discussed and approved by decision committees (CDANSP) that are
representation of the communities and the deconcentrated line ministries. All environmental concerns
and mitigation measures will be discussed and agreecl upon during these sessions.
E. Safeguards Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               10/31/2002    11/5/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           11/12/2002    11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                            11/12/2002    11/21/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               5/24/2002     5/24/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           11/12/2002    11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                            11/12/2002    11/21/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.



9
ISDS
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Francois Rantrua                              11/21/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Kristine Ivarsdotter                     11/21/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Robert Robellus                          11/21/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                   Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                           11/21/2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                           11/21/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCHr        FEDHACK        SIE MAP        SHOCASE



