Report No. PID11511
Project Name             CHAD-Local Development Program (@)
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Other social services (60%);
Sub-national government administration
(20%); Central government administration (20%)
Project ID               P066998
Supplemental Project     P078138
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF CHAD
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC PROMOTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Mr Mahamat Bachir,
Vice Director-General
Tel: (235) 51.58.98
Fax: (235) 51.51.85
Cellule Permanente de Suivi de la
Table Ronde de GenOve IV
Address: N'Djamena, Chad
Contact Person: Mr Baharadine
Tel: (235) 52.07.49
Environment Category     F
Date PID Prepared        November 21, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      November 15, 2002
Bank Approval Date       September 18, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues
With 80% of the population living with less than a dollar a day, Chad is
one of the poorest countries in the world. Poverty is severe in every
region, as shown by extremely high illiteracy rates and weak health
indicators, and strikes women in particular. The average annual income per
capita is estimated at 98,000 FCFA, with a marked disparity between rural
and urban areas. The agricultural/rural sector employs 80% of the active
population and contributes up to 409 of national income, forming almost
50% of the value of exports. Agriculture and livestock are the primary
engines of growth in Chad, where farming systems are characterized by low
input/low output technologies.
Given these basic conditions, rural areas must be the primary targets of
intervention aimed at reducing poverty and increasing growth. The analysis
conducted in 1998 in preparation for the rural development roundtable, and
further confirmed by the pre-identification mission of April 2000,
identified the following issues as the main constraints to rural growth:



issue i:Weak and inefficient provision of basic services to the rural
population.
With regard to water supply, the average percentage of the population with
safe access to water is 309 but, depending on the region, may be as low as
19%. The level of access to clean water is 750 inhabitants per water
point, whereas national standards recommend a maximum of 300-500
inhabitants per water point, and, depending of the region, between 25% and
70% of the pumps are dysfunctional, due for the most part to a lack of
operators capable of managing and maintaining the equipment.
With regard to education, the gross enrollment rate increased from 1995 to
2000, but despite this improvement, the education system has continued to
show persistent weaknesses: (i) wide regional disparities with gross
enrollment ratios of less than 40% in most of the northern and eastern
provinces, (ii) gender disparity (nationally, 55% of girls are enrolled
compared to 88% of boys), (iii) poor infrastructure and an insufficient
number of schools, (iv) poor education quality, (v) high level of
disparity in unit costs and (vi) persistent low rate of post-primary
education enrollment.
With regard to health, the situation is particularly precarious in rural
areas, with one doctor per 41,000 inhabitants at the national level
compared to one doctor per 3,904 inhabitants of N'Djamena, the capital
city. Half of the births are assisted in urban areas, against 16 percent
in rural areas. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS is increasing and is about 5%
among adults (older than 16 years) and more than 10% in some areas (Logone
and Tandjile), while it was 2.9 percent overall in 1994.
With regard to infrastructure, the road network is extremely limited, both
in absolute terms and with respect to the size of the country. Under the
"Roads Normalized Index" of the World Bank, Chad is rated quite low, with
an index value of 21. Chad has just 300 km of full paved roads out of a
6,200 km national network, and most of the unpaved roads are not
accessible year-round. The situation seriously affects the cost of
agricultural products, as well as food security: because high potential
agricultural areas like the Salamat remain unreachable by large trucks for
up to six months per year, transport charges can represent as much as 70%
of marketing costs and up to 80% of the gross margin of local cereal
prices in N'Djamena. Poor transport infrastructure also impedes easy
access to health and education services in rural areas.
issue ii: Severe and sometimes irreversible degradation of natural
resources. Chad is a huge country with fragile ecosystems, which makes the
issue of natural resource management a recurrent one. The production
capital is threatened and in some cases already compromised by soil
erosion, deforestation, desertification, etc. This situation subjects the
populations of several areas to very precarious economic conditions and
sometimes forces them to migrate. Even when climatic conditions and
demographic pressures are the major causes for such migration, it appears
that the lack of sound management of natural resources constitutes an
aggravating factor.
issue iii: Weak organization of rural communities and limited involvement
in decisions concerning their own development. Despite a few initiatives
(cautious decentralization and deconcentration of services, creation of
Departmental Action Committees, etc.), there are no local development
entities, and decision centers are out of reach of much of the rural
population. A few projects have set up local development decision bodies
-2 -



(like the FACIL), but they remain at the pilot stage and are financially
dependent on support from international donors.
issue iv: Limited efficiency of support services, in a framework of
redefinition of the role of the State. Support services in rural areas are
mainly provided by public institutions (ONDR, CFPR, DOP, etc.) . While the
GOC has decided to withdraw progressively from providing support services
to productive sectors, only limited efforts have been made to accompany
the emergence of sustainable private service providers, particularly in
rural areas.
issue v: Lack of coordination among stakeholders (Government, rural
communities, NGOs, donors, etc.) . The multi-sector nature of rural
development, combined with the existence of multiple stakeholders (both
national and international), make coordination difficult. Despite the
efforts undertaken by the GOC following the Geneva IV roundtable in
October of 1998, there is still much to be done to harmonize the various
operations of the Agriculture, Livestock and Environment ministries.
Government strategy
Chad's economic development policy is based on the following principles:
- disengaging the state from support of productive sectors and involvement
in commercial activities;
- promoting the participation of citizens in all decisions and activities
affecting their livelihood;
- creating a regulatory framework, for the promotion of the private sector
and community-driven initiatives;
- improving the effectiveness of public institutions through
administrative decentralization and deconcentration of public services.
The Decentralization Process
Since the Bank's decentralization stocktaking mission, undertaken in July
of 2001, the GOC has taken two major steps forward: (i) the adoption by
the National Assembly of the Organic Law, regarding the creation of rural
communities in December 2001; (ii) the "validation" by technical
ministries of two equally important draft laws, regarding the transfer of
responsibilities ("competences") and resources to local governments. The
draft laws are expected to be submitted to the National Assembly during
its next session.
In addition, the GOC, with the assistance of the EU and UNDP, is actively
engaged in the preparation of local elections to be held in late 2002 or
early 2003. Furthermore, during the February 2002 pre-appraisal mission,
terms of references of four critical preparatory studies to be launched in
the coming months by the Ministry of Decentralization were finalized. Two
of the studies, concerning in particular the transfer of responsibilities
and resources (see annex 2 for more details), will significantly assist
the GOC in implementing the two above laws, after their adoption.
Government Rural Development Strategy
Following the Geneva IV roundtable, held in October 1998, and the Sectoral
Consultation on Rural Development, held in June 1999, the GOC defined its
rural development strategy. The long-term goal of Chad's rural-sector
policy is geared towards attaining the following development objectives:
- sustainable increases of agricultural sector production;
- a protected natural environment;
- 3-



- reinforced human capacity in the rural sector.
The GOC's strategic choices, as defined by the rural-sector policy's
action plan, include the following:
- Increasing agricultural production/productivity and improving
agricultural marketing. This will be achieved through the improvement of
support services (extension, research, agricultural inputs, training,
microfinance), the direct support of competitive products (milk,
livestock, arabic gum, etc.), and the improvement of the infrastructure
base.
- Promoting sustainable management of natural resources and restoration of
production potential. These were among the focal points of the sectoral
roundtable, and the GOC plans to allocate more than half of its sectoral
resources to this domain. They will be developed through (i) consultation
and consensus-building with rural communities, (ii) appropriate water
management for agricultural, livestock and human use, (iii) management of
rural space, (iv) conservation of biodiversity and (v) fighting against
desertification and deforestation.
- Providing support to rural organizations. This includes (i) promoting
the emergence of producers organizations, specifically those including
women and transhumant herders, as well as providing support to
second-level structures (federations, regional organizations, etc.) and
(ii) encouraging the transfer of responsibility towards rural
organizations at various decision-making stages: the formation of policy,
the provision of advice and extension services, the establishment of
steering committees for projects and programs, the monitoring of national
policies.
- Improving the effectiveness of public sector. This is a key point of
Chad's development policy and concerns more than just the rural
development sector. Achieving this objective will require (i) a
redefinition of the government role in policy formulation, sectoral
planning and regulation; (ii) a reorganization of public services, through
deconcentration of their structures and decentralization of decision
making and management; (iii) the optimal allocation of resources through
the use of multi-sectoral and multi-thematic approaches, developed in a
participatory framework.
- Improving the provision of basic services. This point concerns the rural
sector in its broader sense and is considered a necessary precondition for
the success of the rural development strategy. It requires the
intervention of ministries other than those normally involved with rural
development and includes (i) strengthening primary education in rural
areas, (ii) improving primary health care, (iii) strengthening the
communication network (transport, media, telecommunications) and (iv)
improving access to alternative energy sources other than fuel wood.
PRSP
The increased participation of rural communities in local development that
will be promoted by PRODEL is an explicit recommendation for the promotion
of governance under the first national objective off Chad draft full
PRSP. Moreover, PRODEL aims to link participation of communities with the
decentralization process whose completion is recommended under the same
strategic objective of the PRSP. More specifically PRODEL components will
establish links at the community level between the various strategic axis
of the PRSP. These links are highlighted in the table below.
Axis 1
-4-



Improve social, legal, political and economic environment.
Axis 2 :
Promote strong and sustainable economic growth.
Axis 3 :
Improve human capital and access to basic services and infrastructures.
Axis 4 :
Improve living condition of vulnerable groups and HIV/AIDS victims.
Axis 5 :
Restore and sustain ecosystems.
Component 1 : Local development fund
PRODEL will finance collective investments in order to improve access of
populations to basic services and infrastructures
Component 2 : Capacity building Communities will participate in decisions by
submitting their requests and electing representative in the decision
committees. Preparation of local development plans and identification of priorities
will take into account the need of vulnerable groups.
Component 3 : Support to decentralization
Support to decentralization will consist in preparation of required regulatory texts,
support to the decentralization ministry, sensitization at the national regional and
local levels, and pilot support to new rural committees when they are established.
The PRSP identifies land-tenure issues (insecure land property, conflicts between
breeders and farmers) as a key constraint on rural development. Pilot activities
will address these issues.
Component 4 : Monitoring and evaluation This component will establish links with the
monitoring system of the PRSP.
Component GEF         This component will finance  microprojets that contribute to the
restoration of soil fertility, fight against soil erosion, and common
management of natural resources in ecosystems of global ecologic interest.
Table 1 - Links between PRODEL components and PRSP strategic orientations
The details of PRSP implementation are not yet fully defined. However it
seems that the local development financing mechanism put in place by
PRODEL can contribute to implement PRSP, provided that it follows three
main principles.
(i) Help sector ministries to prepare and implement their budget based on
priorities formulated by communities.
(ii) Finance and implement efficiently collective investments in response
to such priorities formulated by communities.
(iii) Strengthen rather than by-pass public finance mechanisms, at the
national and decentralized levels.
2. Objectives
The Project (intended as Phase 1 of the Local Development Program) will
assist the GOC in designing and implementing a decentralized and
participatory financing mechanism that aims to empower local communities
and decentralized authorities to manage development funds transparently
way and according to their own priorities. Specifically Phase I of the
project will initiate and test, in a limited number of areas, the
community-based approach while helping the GOC develop a coherent
regulatory framework for the decentralization process and a master plan
for its implementation. The project will also initiate pilot activities on
current natural resource management issues (particularly land tenure,
pastoralism and water), in order to identify solutions to be implemented
in subsequent phases of the project.
- 5-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Large-scale abilities
The APL tool, as well as the financial ability of IDA to mobilize
sufficient funding, will allow the implementation of national and wide
range community-driven development program.
WB wide experience in social funds and CDD
The Bank has recently incorporated its experience in social funds into the
definition of the Community-Driven Development approach, which combines
community-driven development and decentralization in a long-term
development dimension. Several CDD projects are currently implemented in
various African countries, and among them the Community-based Rural
Development Project in Burkina-Faso, the Village Communities Support
Program in Guinea, the Community Development Project in Madagascar.
Donors coordination
Thanks to its activity in policy dialogue and its links with the IMF, the
Bank plays an important role in donor coordination in Chad and has already
established a network with some of the major donors, which led to the
signature of an agreement in rural development strategy in Chad. Sound
collaboration with other donors in Chad resulted in two multi-donor
missions (April 2000 and February 2001) for the identification of a common
approach to rural development, under a common plan, the PIDR. Regarding
the PRODEL, several donors will co-finance its implementation. The AFD
(Agence FranQaise de Developpement) has already declared its intention to
do so.
4. Description
The project will have four components: (i) local development fund, (ii)
capacity building for communities, (iii) support to the decentralization
process and (iv) management and information support.
Local Development Fund
The Local Development Fund (LDF) is a matching grant facility to
co-finance sub-projects proposed by local communities (associations,
organizations, etc.) or decentralized authorities. Its purpose is to
reduce poverty by stimulating local development and improving communities'
livelihood. The LDF will be demand-driven and thus will finance almost any
type of community-based developmental project communities deem important,
so long as it is not included on a negative list and it meets the
eligibility criteria set out in the PIP. Sub-projects will be submitted as
part of Development Plans, which communities will have elaborated
following a participatory assessment of their needs. The LDF will finance
(i) small social infrastructures, (ii) natural resource management
activities and (iii) larger-scale and more expensive collective
infrastructure projects that will affect several villages/cantons. Special
attention will be given to projects that provide evidence of
sustainability measures, such as (i) the proposed establishment of a
sustainable maintenance scheme (management committee, financial
resources), (ii) capacity building of beneficiaries for maintenance of the
project or (iii) existence of necessary human resources (health personnel,
teachers, etc.).
-6-



The LDF has been designed to support and to comply with the
decentralization framework. One of the goals of the program will be to
support fiscal decentralization by having funds flow through decentralized
authorities, once they have been democratically elected.
Given the demand-driven multi-sector nature of the program, the
sub-projects are likely to touch upon a wide spectrum of sectors, such as
health, education, transport, energy, water and sanitation. These
micro-projects will have to be consistent with national policy.
Capacity Building for Communities
The objective of this component is to strengthen technical and
organizational capacity at the community level with regard to
participatory approaches, needs assessments, project management and access
to credit or new poverty-reduction behavior. It will specifically target
local communities and their associations, decision committees and PRODEL's
Units, as well as services providers (training institutions, NGOs, MFI).
The component has three sub-components:
- Training programs: (i) strengthening of decision committees and PRODEL's
Units so they can execute the activities envisaged under the program, (ii)
campaigns to influence behavior conducive to poverty reduction, and (iii)
modules designed to improve LDF-related capacities of the beneficiaries;
- Animation and Communication: (i) organization of the communities to
prepare and implement their development plans and (ii) communication
concerning the PRODEL design and activities;
- Institutional support to micro finance institutions to provide efficient
financial services to poor communities in rural areas.
Support to the Decentralization
While the program is being designed independent of the decentralization
process, the overall objective of the proposed support is to assist the
GOC in the effective implementation of its decentralization policy, which
is still in its early stages. The PRODEL includes the following three
sub-components:
- Support for the completion of the legal and regulatory frameworks:
studies and technical support to the MDD in the completion of existing
draft laws and their application texts;
- Capacity building at the central, regional and local levels;
- A land tenure pilot operation at the central and local levels.
Management and Information Support
The Management and Information Support component will support project
coordination and monitoring and evaluation, through two sub-components:
- Project Management, which will finance the Project Management Entities
operating costs
- Program Monitoring and Evaluation, which will rely on (i) a Monitoring &
Evaluation System to follow activities in financial and technical terms,
and (ii) a Knowledge Management System for decision makers.
-7 -



For each component, the preliminary cost estimates are as follows:
Local Development Fund
Capacity building for communities
Support to decentralization
Management and Monitoring
PPF
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $0.00
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT $0.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $0.00
Total Project Cost $34.60
6. Implementation
The program will be placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Economic Promotion and Development (MinistOre de la Promotion Economique
et du Developpement - MPED).
Implementation period
The program is scheduled to be implemented over a 12-year period, and the
proposed project represents its first phase. The duration of each phase
will depend on the progress made in attaining the predefined triggers.
Program implementation
Implementation of the PRODEL will be concurrent with the decentralization
process the GOC began in 1996. Therefore the program's institutional
arrangements have been designed to comply with the decentralization
framework, especially with regard to the future "communautes rurales."
which will be created under a just enacted Law (June 7, 2002). An
important level will also be this of the 7 or 8 "Regions" to be
established, but there is no legal framework for interventions at this
level yet Although six levels are recognized or to be recognized in the
administrative organization of the country (national, regional,
departemental, sous-prefectoral, cantonal/communal, villageois), only five
are involved in PRODEL's organization:
- Community level: village level in rural areas and district level in
urban areas; it is understood that this will be the level of the
"Communautes rurales" just created, when the Law becomes effective through
implementation texts.
- lower intermediary level: PRODEL's implementation requires a decision
level as close to the base communities as possible, but at which major
Government services are already represented. This is why the
"sous-prefectoral" level has been selected and not the "canton", where the
central Government is only represented by a single auxiliary with limited
prerogatives. At this level, there are 108 sous-prefectures, which are the
emanation of the central government
- The middle intermediary level is the departementcould also be at the
level of the department, depending on the local human capacities and the
demographic pressure;
- central level.
At the village/district level, local communities will regroup themselves
- 8 -



in a village/district assembly where all the local shareholders will meet.
This Assembly will be endowed with a Secretariat to organize the meetings
and write the reports. The meetings will provide communities the
opportunity to assess their needs and to prepare Village/District
Development Plans in a participatory manner. Communities will also elect
representatives for the Cantonal/Communal Decision Committee (CDCn/DCm).
The CDCn/CDCm will regroup representatives from all the villages/districts
and will be responsible for (i) approving the Village Development
Plan/District Development Plan, (ii) consolidating the plans into Cantonal
Development Plan /Communal Development Plan, (iii) approving sub-project
proposals that have been submitted and (iv) monitoring the implementation
of those projects. The Chef de Canton/Maire and a local PRODEL
representative will participate as members of the CDCn/CDCm to assist the
committees in their decisions, but they will not vote. Deconcentrated line
ministries (Sous-prefecture/ Prefecture level) will be also involved to
provide technical expertise and to ensure compliance with national
standards and policy. Their technical clearance will be required prior to
the approval of the development plans and sub-projects.
If micro-projects concern several cantons/communes, an ad-hoc Departmental
Decision Committee will rule on the requests.
At the central level, a Comite d'Orientation et de Pilotage (COP) will be
established, the status of which will be defined by legal texts. The COP
will consist of representatives of ministries and institutions associated
with the program (13 ministries, donors, NGOs), and representatives of the
Decision Committees. The COP will (i) approve the annual work-plan, (ii)
review activities to be undertaken, (iii) approve budgets and procurement
plans and (iv) decide on PRODEL staff recruiting. The possibility of a
joint COP for PRODEL, ASPOP and the PRSP will be discussed during
appraisal.
Program Management and Monitoring
Day-to-day management of the project activities will be assigned to a
Project Management Unit (UGP), consisting of recruited personnel
(individuals, NGO and/or consulting firm). The UGP will be a small
management team staffed with: a coordinator proficient in development
projects management, a technical pole (capacity building specialist,
monitoring & evaluation specialist, computer specialist) and an
operational pole (financial specialist, accountant, procurement
specialist). The UGP's responsibilities will be to: (i) coordinate the
overall implementation of the project, (ii) manage project activities
implemented at the central level, (iii) ensure funds availability, (iv)
maintain the books and the accounts of the project activities and produce
financial reports, (v) monitor and evaluate the implementation of the work
program and its impact, (vi) report results to various stakeholders
(administration, donors, civil society, projects, decision committees) and
(vii) provide technical assistance to Local Management Units (UGLs).
UGLs, based in each department, will be responsible for the coordination
of program activities within the department. They will be comprised of an
administrator, a monitoring & evaluation specialist, a procurement
specialist and an accountant. Instead of being directive, they will
concentrate their efforts on support activities to local communities in
- 9-



constant consultation with local stakeholders. The UGLs will be
responsible for (i) carrying out capacity-building activities at the local
level, (ii) managing the funds of the LDF, (iii) assisting decision
committees in plans/projects approval and monitoring, (iv) monitoring and
evaluating the program activities at the departmental level and (v)
reporting to local stakeholders and to the UGP.
7. Sustainability
The long term vision of the program is a more decentralized management of
public resources so as to reduce poverty of local communities by taking
into account their priorities. Although for operational reasons PRODEL
will have to establish transitory structures and rely on donors financing,
a particular attention will be paid to institutional and financial
sustainability. This will be achieved in particular through a progressive
integration of the financing mechanism into ordinary public resources
management framework, at the national and decentralized levels. At this
condition only can the mechanism serve as a channel to transfer oil
revenues to local communities, as foreseen in the Law on Oil Revenue
Management.
In this context, sustainability of PRODEL will first require that financed
microprojects contribute effectively to PRSP implementation. Even though
the details of PRSP implementation are not yet fully defined, the
following principles should be taken into account.
(i) PRODEL should aim at respecting normal budget procedures: the
challenge is to respect programmatic budgeting per sector for resources
that are fungible (since they are supposed to finance priorities
formulated by communities in a reactive manner). A possibility is to
budget such resources under the Public Investment Budget (BIP) with a
tentative allocation per sector.
(ii) At the operational level, two types of information should be made
available to sector ministries: information contained in local development
plans for sector ministries to update their plans (map of schools, health
centers, water points), and budget their resources accordingly, and
information investments that are ongoing or completed to avoid duplication
and to take into account such achievements in the monitoring and
evaluation of their sector programs. This exchange of information will
take place at the level of the decision committees where administration
will be represented and will require active involvement from these
administrations.
Second, sustainability will require a synchronization of the institutional
arrangements with the decentralization process, that is still at its early
stages. As the program is implemented, and the decentralization actually
takes place with elected local authorities progressively in place,
responsibilities involved in the mechanism put in place by PRODEL, in
particular those of decision committees, will be transferred to such
decentralized authorities.
Finally, impact of PRODEL will require sustainability of investments and
infrastructures completed by the program. This will be ensured by actual
participation of beneficiaries in the decision on investments, as well as
by their financial and in kind contributions. Beneficiaries will be
responsible for defining their priorities, supervising implementation, and
- 10 -



more importantly managing and maintaining such investments. For this
purpose, particular attention will be paid to strengthening capacities of
local communities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from the Bank experience in Chad
The Bank has developed significant experience in Chad through the
implementation of community-based decentralized funds (FOSAP, PSAP, FACIL)
and has learned:
- The demand for community-driven projects is extremely high
- Local groups are capable of managing the whole sub-project cycle, from
needs assessment to payment of service providers, if adequately trained
and monitored
- Disbursement efficiency is paramount in acquiring and maintaining local
interest and dynamics
- The participatory approach to rural social and socio-economic
infrastructure development is often successful and ensures sustainability
of rural investments.
The Agricultural Services Program, PSAP (Cr 26850 CD, active) aimed at (i)
reshaping the agricultural and livestock extension system into a
demand-driven service addressing both farmers' and agropastoralists' needs
and (ii) strengthening producers' organizations through management and
technical training. The project has been recently restructured to improve
previous problems such as (i) high recurrent costs and centralized
management, (ii) poor results in creating a demand-driven service, and
(iii) lack of linkages with the research system. Restructuring of PSAP is
being directed at improving the effectiveness of support to farmers'
organizations, preparing a more consistent agricultural extension strategy
and developing a cotton-sector reform strategy. During preparation, the
present program will continuously take stock of lessons learned from the
ongoing PSAP's pilot activities.
Lessons learned from the Bank Experience in other countries
Social funds. The Bank initiated social funds in 1987, and they are
currently active in more than 50 countries, financing small-scale
community interventions, ranging from infrastructure and social services
to training and micro-enterprise development. Originally conceived as
emergency measures, social funds have become part of many governments'
long-term poverty alleviation strategies. With more than ten years
experience, there is now considerable analysis available of what has
worked and what has not worked in social funds. Lessons learned include
the importance of administrative autonomy, close coordination with line
ministries, integration into sectoral policies and programs, flexible and
simple procurement and disbursement requirements, simple, but rigorous,
administrative procedures and high level political support.
Community Action Program in the Borgou region of Benin. The Bank has been
financing this pilot project since March 1999. This project appears a
success and the following lessons have been learned or confirmed:
- communities must be initially organized through a special participatory
process (village level participatory approach) in order to be able to
acknowledge and address the development needs of all their constituencies,
- 11 -



particularly the marginalized groups (herders), the underprivileged, the
women and the young, and prioritize these needs at community level
consensually;
- this training process can be contracted to any operator with the
required expertise (consultant firms, government services, NGOs);
- communities give more importance to the speed of delivery of services
and accountability of operators than to the level of the contribution
(financial or in kind) they have to provide. Therefore bureaucracy must be
limited to a strict minimum, and intermediaries avoided between
communities and their institutional partners (project management,
financial institutions, government and services providers);
- direct communication between communities and projects is essential, and
staff should be either recruited locally, provided they have the necessary
expertise, or be requested to be fluent in at least one local language;
project management must be nimble and close to the beneficiaries
(geographically and culturally);
- operational inter-institutional linkages must be spelled out clearly
through framework contracts from the very start of implementation in order
to avoid conflicts and delays (with GOC's local services for review and
technical support, with financial institutions for the management of
funds, with other partners for technical support and training)
- even when the literacy rate is very low, communities are quite able to
carry out the procurement processes efficiently and transparently, often
more efficiently than institutions (Government, project or NGOs), provided
the necessary steps (above) have been taken to ensure ownership and
understanding of these processes, and supporting institutions (project),
leave the actual leadership of operations to them.
Niger Natural Resources Management Project. The findings of the
above-mentioned project in Benin are confirmed in the Niger NRM project,
in which CAP procedures were introduced and implemented following the MTR
in early 2000. Since then, these procedures have been successfully
implemented by all the 125 communities in the project, even with the
handicap of a sparse network of bank agencies. Communities have been able
to complete within 3 months the contracting of operators to drill village
wells, a process which had taken 18 months through government and was
still not completed when community based procurement procedures were
introduced, allowing it to be sent back at community level.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Due to the community-driven nature of the program,
in which sub-projects are decided by communities, it is impossible to know
up front its exact environmental impacts. However, each sub-project
(roads, wells, schools, productive activities...), is likely to have
potential negative impacts on the environment. Sub-projects will thus be
systematically assessed in advance and measures will be taken
appropriately.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Francois Rantrua
The World Bank
- 12 -



1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 13 -



