Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF055093-CD 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Community-Based Ecosystem Management) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated August 9, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF055093-CD 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
WHEREAS 
(A) 
the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global environment 
and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
(C) 
the Bank has received a letter from the Recipient, dated October 27, 2003, 
describing a program of actions and objectives designed, 
inter alia
,
to support the 
Recipient’s decentralization and local development policy (the Program) and declaring 
the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) which constitutes a component of the 
PROADEL Project (as hereinafter defined), has requested assistance from the resources of the 
GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having been approved in accordance 
with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2;  
(E) 
the Recipient has also obtained additional financing in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to sixteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
16,400,000) from the International Development Association (the Association) for the 
PROADEL Project (as hereafter defined) by an agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association dated September 30, 2004 (the Development Grant Agreement); and 
(F) 
the Project will be carried out by the PMU (as hereafter defined) with the 
Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant available to the PMU, as provided in this Agreement; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) and (21), 
2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a) (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f) and  5.01 (a) thereof, means the Bank acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph  (o) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”; 
(vii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
”Beneficiary” means a PSAOP-Beneficiary, a PROADEL-Beneficiary, a 
PRODABO-Beneficiary, or a PRODALKA-Beneficiary as the case may be; 
(b) 
“CFA Francs” or “CFAF” means 
Franc de la Coopération Financière en Afrique 
Centrale
,
the currency of the Recipient;  
(c) 
“CLTO” means the Chadian Land Tenure Office (
Observatoire du Foncier au 
Tchad
), established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 215/PR/MES/2001 
dated April 24, 2001; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and consultants’ 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out and financing a Microproject; 
(g) 
“GEF Priority Zones” means, collectively, the PRODABO-PRODALKA Priority 
Zones and the PROADEL Priority Zone; 
(h) 
“LPMU-PROADEL” means each of the three PROADEL Local Project 
Management Units established and operating at the inter-regional (
région
)
level in the PROADEL 
Priority Zone, pursuant to the PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(i) 
“MA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(j) 
“MCD” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of Decentralization; 
(k) 
“MEW” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment and Water; 
(l) 
“Microproject” means a specific activity to be carried out within any of the GEF 
Priority Zones and financed, or proposed to be financed through a Microproject Grant under Part 
A
of
the Project; 
(m) 
Microproject Approval Committees means collectively the PSAOP Approval 
Committees, the PROADEL Approval Committees, the PRODABO Approval Committee and the 
PRODALKA Approval Committee; 
(n) 
“Microproject Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the PMU 
to finance a Microproject under Part A of the Project; 
(o) 
“Microproject Management Committee” means the committee to be established 
by each Beneficiary for the purposes of managing, monitoring and supervising its 
Microproject(s); and 
(p) 
“ML” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Livestock; 
(q) 
“MLMUH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Land Management, Urbanism and 
Habitat; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(r) 
“MPDC” means the Ministry responsible for Planning, Development and 
Cooperation; 
(s) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, established and operating in the 
territory of the Recipient; 
(t) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit at MLMUH, which includes the 
RGCE and is established and operating pursuant to the PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(u) 
“PROADEL Approval Committees” means the PROADEL Departmental DACs 
or the PROADEL Sub-Prefectoral DACs; 
(v) 
“PROADEL-Beneficiary” means a community-based organization established 
and operating under the laws of the Recipient in the PROADEL Priority Zone, which has met the 
eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and the requirements of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement, and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Microproject Grant 
for the carrying out of a Microproject;
 
(w) 
“PROADEL Departmental DAC” means each of the Recipient’s Decision and 
Approval Committees established and operating at the departmental (
département
)
level in the 
PROADEL 
Priority Zone pursuant to the Recipient’s
 
PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
,
and responsible for the approval of Microprojects for PROADEL Beneficiaries at the 
departmental (
département
)
or sub-prefectoral (
sous-préfecture
)
level, as the case may be, in the 
PROADEL Priority Zone; 
(x) 
“PROADEL Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the 
document, adopted by the Recipient on October 20, 2002, consisting of: (i) a framework outlining 
the modalities for environmental screening and rules and procedures for the preparation and 
implementation of environmental assessments to be complied with, as the case may be, prior to 
carrying out a Microproject; and (ii) modalities for social analysis and a resettlement policy 
framework outlining the modalities for land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of 
displaced persons under a Microproject; 
(y) 
“PROADEL Priority Zone” means Mandelia Fauna Reserve, Moundou Charcoal 
Supply Basin and Lake Weye, and Bahr El Gazal; 
(z) 
“PROADEL Project” or “PROADEL” means the Local Development Program 
Support Project financed with the assistance of the Association pursuant to a Development Grant 
Agreement No. H126-CD dated September 30, 2004;
 
(aa) 
“PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
”
means the
 Arrêté
 No. 
008/MATUH/SG/03 dated October 14, 2003;
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(bb) 
“PROADEL Sub-Prefectoral DAC” means each of the Recipient’s Decision and 
Approval Committees established and operating at the sub-prefectoral (
sous-
préfecture
)
level in 
the PROADEL Priority Zone pursuant to the PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 and 
responsible for the approval of Microprojects for PROADEL Beneficiaries at the sub-prefectoral 
(
sous-préfecture
)
level in the PROADEL Priority Zone;
 
(cc) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated May 12, 
2005, covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(dd) 
“PRODABO Approval Committee” means the Recipient’s approval committee to 
be established and operating at the departmental (
département
)
level in the PROBADO Priority 
Zone, and responsible for the approval of Microprojects for PRODABO Beneficiaries in the 
PROBADO Priority Zone;
 
(ee) 
“PRODABO-Beneficiary” means a community-based organization established 
and operating under the laws of the Recipient in the PRODABO Priority Zone, which has met the 
eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and the requirements of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement, and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Microproject Grant 
for the carrying out of a Microproject; 
(ff) 
“PRODALKA-Beneficiary” means a community-based organization established 
and operating under the laws of the Recipient in the PRODALKA Priority Zone, which has met 
the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and the requirements of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a 
Microproject Grant for the carrying out of a Microproject; 
(gg) 
“
PRODABO-PRODALKA LPMU
”
means each of the regional project 
management units contractually established 
under the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning (
Ministère 
du Plan
)
and operating at the inter-regional (
région
)
level in the PRODABO-PRODALKA 
Priority Zones; 
(hh) 
“PRODABO-PRODALKA Priority Zone” means
 
Ouaddai-Biltine Watershed 
System and Binder-Léré Wildlife Reserve and Lake Léré; 
(ii) 
“PRODABO Priority Zone” means the area within the PRODABO-PRODALKA 
Priority Zone that is limited to the Ouaddai-Biltine Watershed System;
 
(jj) “PRODALKA 
Project 
Implementation 
Arrêté
”
means the Recipient’s 
Arrêté
 No. 
002/RMKO/DLL/SG/05 dated January 17, 2005;
 
(kk) 
“PRODALKA Approval Committee” means the Recipient’s approval committee 
established and operating at the departmental (
département
)
level in the PRODALKA Priority 
Page  8
-
7
-
Zone 
pursuant to the Recipient’s
 
PRODALKA Project Implementation 
Arrêté 
and responsible for 
the approval of Microprojects for PRODALKA Beneficiaries in the PRODALKA Priority Zone;
 
(ll) 
“PRODALKA Priority Zone” means the part of the PRODABO-PRODALKA 
Priority Zone other than the PRODABO Priority Zone;
 
(mm) 
“Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual” means the Project-
specific manual outlining the administrative, financial and accounting arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Administrative, Financial and 
Accounting Manual; 
(nn) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project-specific manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
the institutional, disbursement and procurement arrangements for the implementation 
of the Project and clearly identifying the role of the RGCE within the PMU and the relations of 
the RGCE with the ministries of the Recipient, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such -term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Manual; 
(oo) 
“Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual” means the Project-specific manual 
outlining the monitoring and evaluation arrangements of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Monitoring and Evaluation Manual;  
(pp) 
“Project Preparation Grant” means the GEF Grant for preparation of the Project 
in the amount of $250,000 made on November 3, 2003; 
(qq) 
“Project Semester” means the six-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending six months thereafter (the First Project Semester) and any six-month period 
beginning at the end of the First Project Semester, or at the end of any subsequent Project 
Semester; 
(rr) “Protected 
Areas 
Décrets
”
means the 
Décret
 No. I99/PR/EFPC/PNR, dated June 
24, 1969, the 
Décret
 No. I69/PR/EFPC/PNR, dated May 24, 1974, and the 
Arrêté
 No. 29/S.F, 
dated January 10, 1955, providing protected status to the areas located within the GEF Priority 
Zones; 
(ss) 
“PSAOP Approval Committees” means each of the Recipient’s Selection 
Committees established and operating at the departmental (
département
)
level pursuant to the 
PSAOP Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 
and responsible for the approval of Microprojects for 
PSAOP Beneficiaries to be financed through Microproject Grants;  
Page  9
-
8
-
(tt) 
“PSAOP-Beneficiary” means a producer organization established and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient in a GEF Priority Zone, which has met the eligibility criteria set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual, and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Microproject Grant for the carrying out of 
a
Microproject;  
(uu) 
“PSAOP Environmental Assessment” means the document adopted by the 
Recipient on November 20, 2002, consisting of the report regarding the environmental 
assessment carried out by the Recipient for the implementation of the Project, together with the 
following annexes thereto: (i) the part of the PSAOP Environmental Assessment which defines 
mitigation measures to be carried out under the Project, including training and capacity building, 
and the institutional arrangements for the implementation and monitoring of such measures 
(PSAOP Environmental Management Plan); (ii) the PSAOP Environmental Management 
Framework; (iii) the part of the PSAOP Environmental Assessment which describes the dam 
safety measures to be implemented for the construction of each dam not higher than two meters 
(Small Dam) under the Project, including in particular institutional arrangements for the training 
of, and the provision of necessary technical assistance to, the relevant PSAOP Beneficiaries, and 
for the monitoring of any Small Dam, as appropriate (PSAOP Dam Safety Analysis); (iv) the part 
of the PSAOP Environmental Assessment which outlines the modalities to develop and  
implement an integrated pest management under the Project (the PSAOP Pest Management Plan); 
and (v) the part of the PSAOP Environmental Assessment which defines the modalities for land 
acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons under a Microproject (PSAOP 
Resettlement Policy Framework); 
(vv) 
“PSAOP Environmental Management Framework” means the part of the PSAOP 
Environmental Assessment which defines: (i) the modalities to be followed to assess the 
environmental and social impacts of any Microproject; and (ii) the measures and actions to offset, 
reduce or mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts of such Microproject; 
(ww) 
“
PSAOP-IRPC
MU” means each of the six Inter-Regional Project Coordination 
and Management Units of PSAOP-NPCMU at  MA established and operating at the inter-
regional level (
région
)
pursuant to the PSAOP Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(xx) 
“PSAOP-NPCMU” means the National Project Coordination and Management 
Unit at MA, established and operating pursuant to the PSAOP Project Implementation 
Arrêté
;
(yy) 
“PSAOP Project Implementation 
Arrêté
”
means 
Arrêté
 No. 039/MA/SG/2003 
dated October 9, 2003; 
(zz) 
“PSAOP Project” or “PSAOP” means the Agricultural Services and Producer 
Organizations Project financed with the assistance of the Association pursuant to a Development 
Credit Agreement No. 3837-CD, dated December 22, 2003; 
(aaa) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for withdrawal of 
funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(bbb) 
“RGCE” means the person responsible for supervising the Project within the 
PMU;  
(ccc) 
“SC” means the Steering Committee for the Project, established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s
 
Arrêté
 No. 027/PM/2003 dated September 25, 2003 (the Rural Sector 
Monitoring 
Arrêté
), and referred to in paragraphs A.2 and A.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ddd) 
“Scientific and Technical Committee” means the Community-Based Ecosystem 
Management Scientific and Technical Committee at MEW established and operating pursuant to 
the Recipient’s 
Arrêté
 No. 023/PR/PM/MEE/SG/05 dated April 29, 2005 (the Scientific 
Committee 
Arrêté
);  
(eee) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 
1
of
this Agreement;  
(fff) 
“Technical Support Agency” means an NGO, any of the decentralized technical 
public services of the Recipient, or any other entity providing assistance to the Beneficiaries for 
the identification, appraisal, and preparation of Microprojects and for the supervision of the 
implementation of such Microprojects. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount 
equal to six million Dollars ($6,000,000).  
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods, and services required for carrying out Parts B, C, and D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made under a Microproject 
Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out a 
Microproject to be financed under Part A of the Project, in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Grant Account is requested.
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2010 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
PMU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, institutional, engineering and environmental practices and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the 
date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and  
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account in CFA 
Francs (the Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of 
CFA Francs 100,000,000; 
(c) 
within six months of the Effective Date deposit into the Project Account an 
additional contribution of CFA Francs 100,000,000 
(d) 
thereafter deposit in the Project Account, at the end of each Project Semester, 
until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall be required to timely replenish the 
Project Account back to the amount of CFA Francs 200,000,000, or whenever the balance of the 
Project Account shall be less than CFA Francs 100,000,000; and 
(e) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services for the Project in addition of those financed from the proceeds of the 
Grant. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), commencing with the fiscal 
year in which the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Grant 
was made, audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by 
the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by 
the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said 
auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it impossible that the 
Recipient’s 
Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;  
(b) 
the PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
,
the PSAOP Project 
Implementation 
Arrêté
,
the Rural Sector Monitoring 
Arrêté
,
the Science Committee 
Arrêté
,
the 
PRODALKA Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 or any of the Protected Areas 
Décrets
,
shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so to materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project; or
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the Recipient 
to withdraw the proceeds of the PROADEL Grant Agreement made to the Recipient shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
PROADEL Grant Agreement;  
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the PROADEL Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established an accounting and financial management system for 
the Project satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted a Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Manual, a Project Implementation Manual and a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, all 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
Page  15
-
14
-
(c) 
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; and  
(d) 
the PROADEL Project Implementation 
Arrêté
 has been amended to reflect the 
recruitment of the personnel necessary for the implementation of the Project.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder. 
Page  16
-
15
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The 
Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for planning, 
development and cooperation 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Planning, Development and Cooperation, 
 
B.P. 286 
 
N’Djamena 
 
Republic of Chad
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
5329
KD 
 
(235) 51 51 85  
 
(235) 52 00 87 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  17
-
16
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
By: 
    
 
/s/ Mahamoud Béchir Adam 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By: 
      
 
/s/ 
Ali 
M. 
Khadr 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
U.S. dollars)
to be Financed  
(1)   Goods 
 
300,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 82% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(2
)
Consultants’  
1,400,000 
 
 
 
82% 
 
services and 
 
 
 
audits 
 
(3)   Training 
 
900,000 
 
100% 
 
 
  
 
(4)   Microproject  
 
2,500,000 
 
100% of amounts 
 
Grants  
 
disbursed 
 
(5)   Operating  
 
600,000 
78% 
 
Costs 
 
(6) Unallocated 
300,000  
 
 
==========  
TOTAL  
6,000,000 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, 
Page  19
-
18
-
that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be 
deem
ed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
(c) 
the term ”Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicles 
operation and maintenance, communication costs, utilities expenses, consumables, transport, 
travel and accommodation, per diem, supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted staff, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(d) 
the term “Training” means the expenses incurred on per diem, travel, purchase of 
training materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops and seminars. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of :  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b) 
a Microproject Grant under Category (4) unless the Microproject Grant has been 
made in accordance with the criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and  
(c) 
Microproject Grants to PRODABO Beneficiaries that concern or affect any part 
of the PRODABO Priority Zone until the PRODABO Approval Committee has been established 
by the Recipient through an 
Arrêté
 or other 
instrument of the Recipient in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.   
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request 
submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
B. Special 
Accounts
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in CFA Francs two separate special deposit 
accounts, one for Part A of the Project (Special Account A), and one for Parts B, C and D of the 
Project (Special Account B) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts have 
been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited 
into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any of the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for payment of 
Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the relevant Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to 
Page  21
-
20
-
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any of the Special 
Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the appropriate Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into such 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means in respect of Special Account A, Category (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of Special Account B, 
Categories (1), (2), (3), and (5) set forth in said table; 
(b) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of CFAF 250,000,000 in respect of 
Special Account A, and an amount of CFAF 250,000,000 in respect of Special Account B, to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 125,000,000 in respect of 
Special Account B, until: (i) the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), and (5) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Parts B, C and D of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of USD 1,500,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Accounts such amount as the Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Accounts at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Page  23
-
22
-
relevant Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Accounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such reports. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to restore some of the Recipient's most fragile ecosystems 
by enabling local communities to better fight desertification, rehabilitate worn land and protect 
biodiversity. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:  
Part A
:
Financial support for community-based ecosystem management Microprojects
Provision of Microproject Grants to Beneficiaries for the financing of Microprojects to 
support local development for environmental activities of medium and long term economic return 
within the GEF Priority Zones, including, 
inter alia
,
the reforestation and rehabilitation of gallery 
forests to diminish desertification, development of grazing corridors, community co-management 
of protected areas, alternative energy carriers to fuel wood and traditionally produced charcoal, 
introduction of direct seeding, and other agro-forestry techniques that can enhance soil fertility, 
retain soil organic carbon and limit erosion. 
Part B
:
Capacity building for integrated ecosystem management
1. 
Ecosystem management schemes. 
Supporting collaboration between key stakeholders to pursue integrated ecosystem management 
priorities at larger scales and to prepare ecosystem management schemes through the provision of 
technical and organizational assistance, including 
inter alia
,
the realization of a participatory 
diagnostic and technical studies and GIS mapping to identify the opportunities and constraints to 
integrated ecosystem management, as well as the key stakeholders impacted and providing 
assistance to communities in the co-management of protected areas. 
2. 
Training of stakeholders. 
Development of program on environmental education and awareness raising, including 
organization of courses, workshops, meetings, pilot initiatives to the benefit of the Beneficiaries 
and technical service agencies on ecosystem management, but also dissemination of an Integrated 
Ecosystem Management Guideline Document as a capacity building tool for consolidating 
approaches in local development planning. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Part C
:
Support for an enabling environment for community-based integrated ecosystem 
management
1. 
Improvement of the legal and regulatory framework 
Carrying out of studies, workshops and provision of technical advisory services to MEW in order 
to assist in potential modifications of the existing environmental regulatory framework and to 
promote community support for such reforms. 
2. 
Institutional support  
a. 
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacities of MEW (at the central 
and decentralized levels) through the provision of technical advisory services and logistical 
support, primarily in the GEF Priority Zones, to improve skills and monitoring and environmental 
enforcement powers of MEW institutions. 
b. 
Carrying out of studies, workshops and sensitivity campaigns and provision of 
technical advisory services in order to assist in the decentralization process of environmental 
governance. 
3. Sustainable 
financing 
a. 
Supporting the promotion of partnerships between local communities and non-
GEF sources of financing to sustain ecosystem management schemes, including, 
inter alia
,
private sector financing for income-generating activities, tax revenues from forest products and 
other natural resources, such as fisheries, international foundations and NGOs, national funds 
planned for environmental and natural resource management, decentralized co-operation, carbon 
finance or any other payments for environmental services.  
b. 
Providing technical support to the Recipient for the establishment of a National 
Fund for the Environment and the development of a community partnership framework. 
 
Part D
:
Management and monitoring support
1. 
Support to Project management 
Supporting the PMU through the provision of technical advisory services and training, and the 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles. 
Page  27
-
26
-
2. 
Support to Project monitoring and evaluation 
Provide financial support for the monitoring and evaluation activities set forth under the Project 
Monitoring and Evaluation Manual  
3. 
Monitoring of ecosystem management at the national level 
Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system of ecosystem management at the national 
level, through 
inter alia
 supporting a feasibility study for the establishment of a National 
Observatory of Natural Resources. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2009. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 
2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to 
them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, and goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Computers, vehicles and office equipment estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured from the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
Page  29
-
28
-
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, as set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services for contracts estimated to cost the equivalent or more than 
$100,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1
Least-cost Selection
.
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 
through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in 
the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may, with prior approval of the Bank, be awarded to 
individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; and (b) the first three contracts for goods awarded under 
National Competitive Bidding procedures; and (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more.  In addition,  the record 
of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for each 
Page  30
-
29
-
contract for the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank.  
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. However, the exception 
to Prior Review by the Bank shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference of such contracts, 
regardless of their estimated cost; (b) all contracts for audit services, regardless of their estimated 
cost; and (c) annual programs for local and overseas training and workshops, including terms of 
reference and estimated budgets. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (a) apply the criteria, 
policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual, the Project 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, the Project Monitoring and Evaluation 
Manual and the PROADEL Environmental and Social Management Framework, PSAOP 
Environmental Assessment; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Project Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, 
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, the PROADEL Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the PSAOP Environmental Assessment, or any provision thereof, in 
a
manner which, in the opinion of the Bank, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
2. 
SC and PMU
During the execution of the Project, the Recipient shall cause: (a) SC to meet quarterly; 
and (b) PMU to prepare for the meetings of the SC, not later than two weeks before such 
meetings, a report regarding the implementation of the Project during the preceding quarter. 
3. Annual 
Consultations
The Recipient shall cause PMU to organize regional annual workshops to establish 
annual priorities for ecosystem management activities in conformity with the provisions of the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
SC, together with the Scientific and Technical Committee, shall supervise the 
overall planning, implementation and supervision of the Project; and PMU, in collaboration with 
the LPMUs-PROADEL and the PRODABO-PRODALKA-LPMUs and PSAOP-IRPCMUs, shall 
be responsible for the day to day coordination and implementation of the Project; 
Page  31
-
30
-
(b) 
the qualifications and experience of the staff within MLMUH, MEW, MCD, SC, 
the Scientific and Technical Committee, the PMU, the LPMUs-PROADEL, the PRODABO-
PRODALKA-LPMUs, PSAOP-IRPCMUs, the PSAOP Approval Committees, the CLTO, the 
three regional offices of CLTO, the PROADEL Approval Committees, the PRODALKA 
Approval Committee and the PRODABO Approval Committee, with Project responsibilities, 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
SC, the Scientific and Technical Committee, the PMU, the LPMUs-PROADEL, 
the PRODABO-PRODALKA-LPMUs, PSAOP-IRPCMUs, the PSAOP Approval Committees, 
the PROADEL Approval Committees, the PRODALKA Approval Committee and the 
PRODABO Approval Committee, shall be maintained with functions and composition 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(d) 
the relevant Ministries, Agencies and authorities (in particular, MLMUH, MCD, 
the MPDC, MEW, MA, ML and CLTO), shall collaborate with PMU, the LPMUs-PROADEL, 
the PRODABO-PRODALKA-LPMUs, PSAOP-IRPCMUs, the PSAOP Approval Committees, 
the PROADEL Approval Committees, the PRODABO Approval Committee and the 
PRODALKA Approval Committee in compliance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, the 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, the PROADEL Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the PSAOP Environmental Assessment, in particular with respect to 
the appointment of individuals whose experience, position and performance are satisfactory to the 
Bank, and who shall assist PMU, LPMUs-PROADEL, the PRODABO-PRODALKA-LPMUs, 
PSAOP-IRPCMUs, the PSAOP Approval Committees, the PROADEL Approval Committees, 
the PRODALKA Approval Committee and the PRODABO Approval Committee in ensuring 
proper implementation of the Project; and 
(e) 
the PSAOP Approval Committees, the PROADEL Approval Committees, the 
PRODALKA Approval Committee and the PRODABO Approval Committee have or shall have 
been established in compliance with the provisions of, and in particular the criteria set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
B. 
Microprojects and Microproject Grants
1. 
No Microproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless the 
relevant 
PSAOP Approval Committee, the PROADEL Approval Committee, the 
PRODALKA Approval Committee or the PRODABO Approval Committee, 
as the case 
may be, has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, that the Microproject satisfies, 
inter alia
,
the 
eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, 
which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(a) 
that the Microproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary and be submitted either: 
(i) by a PSAOP Beneficiary to the relevant PSAOP Approval Committee; or (ii) by a PROADEL 
Beneficiary to the relevant PROADEL Departmental DAC or PROADEL Sub-Prefectoral DAC, 
Page  32
-
31
-
as the case may be; or (iii) by a PRODABO Beneficiary to the relevant PRODABO Approval 
Committee; or (iv) by a PRODALKA Beneficiary to the relevant PRODALKA Approval 
Committee; 
(b) 
that the Microproject Grant shall finance any of the activities on the list of 
activities eligible for GEF financing set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and included 
in the local development plans; 
(c) 
(i) 
that the Microproject submitted to the PRODALKA Approval 
Committee: (1) concerns or affects any part of the PRODALKA Priority Zone 
that is within the geographical scope of such PRODALKA Approval Committee; 
and (2) does not fall within the types of activities attributed to the PSAOP 
Approval Committees under the PIM ; 
(ii) 
that the Microproject submitted to the PRODABO Approval Committee: 
(1) concerns or affects any part of the PRODABO Priority Zone that is within the 
geographical scope of such PRODABO Approval Committee; and (2) does not 
fall within the types of activities attributed to the PSAOP Approval Committees 
under the PIM; 
(iii) 
that the Microproject submitted to any of the PSAOP Approval 
Committees: (1) concerns or affects any part of the GEF Priority Zone; and (2) 
shall fall within the types of activities attributed to the PSAOP Approval 
Committees under the PIM; 
(iv) 
that the Microproject submitted to any of the PROADEL Approval 
Committees: (1) concerns or affects any part of the PROADEL Priority Zone; 
and (2) shall fall within the types of activities attributed to the PROADEL 
Approval Committees under the PIM; 
(d) 
that the Microproject shall be economically, financially, environmentally, 
institutionally and technically sound in accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and: (i) for Microprojects reviewed by any of the PSAOP Approval 
Committees, the PSAOP Environmental Assessment; or (ii) for Microprojects reviewed by any of 
the PROADEL Approval Committees, the PROADEL Environmental and Social Management 
Framework; or (iii) for Microprojects reviewed by any of the PRODABO or PRODALKA 
Approval Committees, the PROADEL Environmental and Social Management Framework or the 
PSAOP Environmental Assessment, as applicable, as determined by the PIM. 
(e) 
that an analysis of the environmental impacts of the Microproject shall have been 
undertaken in compliance with the provisions of the PROADEL Environmental and Social 
Management Framework
 or the PSAOP Environmental Assessment
,
as applicable, and, if 
applicable, an environmental impact assessment shall have been carried out and any other 
environmental and social requirements, including mitigation, compensation, rehabilitation and 
resettlement measures, provided under the PROADEL Environmental and Social Management 
Page  33
-
32
-
Framework
 or the PSAOP Environmental Assessment, as applicable,
 shall have been 
complied with, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(f) 
that adequate arrangements shall be in place for the financing of maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent costs related to the Microproject; 
(g) 
that the Microproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Recipient relating to health, education, safety and 
environmental protection; 
(h) 
that the Beneficiary shall provide from 5 to 20 % of the estimated costs of the 
Microproject in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services, depending on the nature of 
the Microproject and as specified in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(i) 
that no Microproject Grant to any single Beneficiary shall be in excess of thirty 
two million five hundred thousand CFA Francs (CFAF 32,500,000); and 
(j) 
that the Beneficiary shall have established a Microproject Management 
Committee;  
2. 
Whenever the respective PSAOP Approval Committee, PROADEL Approval 
Committee, PRODALKA Approval Committee or PRODABO Approval Committee, as the case 
may be, approves an application for a Microproject Grant, the PSAOP Approval Committee, 
PROADEL Approval Committee, the PRODALKA Approval Committee or PRODABO 
Approval Committee, as the case may be, refers such application for financing to the PMU. 
3. 
Microprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be concluded 
between the Recipient and the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
which, inter alia, shall include the following: 
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis; 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Microproject in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual
 and: (i) for Microprojects reviewed by any of the PSAOP 
Approval Committees, the PSAOP Environmental Assessment;
 or (ii) for Microprojects 
reviewed by any of the PROADEL Approval Committees, the PROADEL Environmental and 
Social Management Framework; or (iii) for Microprojects reviewed by the PRODALKA 
Approval Committee or the PRODABO Approval Committee, the PROADEL Environmental and 
Social Management Framework or 
the PSAOP Environmental Assessment
,
as applicable, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound environmental, social, 
institutional, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Microproject; 
Page  34
-
33
-
(c) 
where applicable, the obligation to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Recipient and the Bank, any environmental analysis and an environmental assessment, and to 
adopt adequate environmental mitigation measures, compensation and rehabilitation of affected 
persons for land acquisition or resettlement in accordance with the provisions of the PROADEL 
Environmental and Social Management Framework
 or the PSAOP Environmental 
Assessment, as applicable;
 
(d) 
the requirement that : (i) the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Microproject Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Microproject; 
(e) 
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods, works, sites and construction included in the Microproject, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(f) 
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or the Bank 
shall reasonably request from a Beneficiary regarding the administration, operations and financial 
conditions of the Microproject; and 
(g) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the  Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Microproject Grant for the Microproject upon failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under its Financing Agreement. 
C. 
Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual and 
performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
C.1 (a) above and including beneficiary feedback reports and Microproject completion reports, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar quarter preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during the calendar quarter following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, not later than two weeks after the submission of the report 
referred to in paragraph C.1 (b) above, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
Page  35
-
34
-
referred to in paragraph C.1 (b) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank
’s views on the matter. 
2. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
On or about twenty four months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall carry 
out jointly with the Bank, SC, the LPMU-PROADELs and the PMU a midterm review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
(ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause PMU to prepare and, at least four weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, furnish to the Bank a separate report describing the status of implementation of 
each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare 
and submit to the Bank an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for the further implementation 
of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement 
such action program. 
Page  36
-
35
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Outcome Indicators 
Financial Support for community-based ecosystem management Microprojects
(a) 
By the Midterm Review, 45% of approved Microprojects (constituting at 
least 20 Microprojects) have been completed. 
(b) 
By the end of the Project, 70% of approved Microprojects (constituting 
at least 50 Microprojects) have been completed. 
Capacity building for integrated ecosystem management
(a) 
By the Midterm Review, 50 training sessions or sensitization campaigns 
to benefit community-based organizations have been implemented at the 
community level. 
(b) 
By the end of the Project, three ecosystem management schemes have 
been conceived. 
(c) 
By the end of the Project, at least 25% of local development plans in the 
GEF Priority Zone specifically address integrated ecosystem 
management issues in the manner set forth in the PIM. 
Support for an enabling environment for community-based ecosystem management
(a) 
By the Midterm Review, the draft decree on the National Fund for 
Environment related to the Law 14/PR dated August 17, 1998, and the 
draft Law concerning management of forests and fauna has been 
prepared. 
(b) 
By the end of the Project, decree on National Fund for Environment 
related to Law 14/PR dated August 17, 1998, and the draft Law 
concerning management of forests and fauna have been enacted or 
signed, as the case may be. 
(c) 
By the end of the Project, the implementation ratio of number of training 
sessions, as planned by the PMU to benefit the MEW reaches 60 %.
 
Page  37
-
36
-
Management and monitoring support
(a) 
By the end of the Project, 80% of the reports to be prepared by PMU 
under the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual have been issued in 
a
timely manner. 
(b) 
By the end of the Project, a feasibility study of the National Observatory 
for Natural Resources Monitoring has been performed and approved.
 
