                                  Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                               Report No: AB1712

Project Name                     CHAD - Community-Based Ecosystem Management Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Theme                            Biodiversity (P); Water resource management (S); Other environment and natural
                                 resources management (S)
Project                          P078138
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF CHAD
Implementing Agency(ies)         MINISTRY OF LAND MANAGEMENT, URBANISM AND HABITAT
                                 Address: Ministère de l'Aménagement du Territoire, de l'Urbanisme et de
                                 l'Habitat
                                 Route de Farcha sis enceinte du Ministère des Travaux Publics, B.P. 436
                                 N'djamena, Tchad
                                 Contact Person:
                                 Tel: 235 51 78 59         Fax:          Email:

                                 Cellule Permanente de Suivi de la Table Ronde de Genève IV
                                 Address: B.P. 750, N'Djamena, Tchad
                                 Contact Person: Mr Abakar Souleymane
                                 Tel: (235) 52.07.49         Fax:         Email:

                                 Ministère de l'Environnement et de l'Eau
                                 Address: N'Djamena, Chad
                                 Contact Person: Mahadie Outhman Issa
                                 Tel: (235) 52 66 41         Fax:         Email:
Environment Category             B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                June 23, 2005
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 22, 2005
Bank Approval Date               June 28, 2005

1. Country and Sector Background
   Main sector issues

   Issue 1: Fragile ecosystems and loss of biodiversity. Lying at the convergence of four major continental
   ecological zones (i.e., the West African Sahara, the Sahel, the Sudanian zone, and the Central African
   Forest), Chad's ecosystems are globally significant. They serve as permanent habitats, safe migration
   harbors, and assimilation zones for a multitude of unique, threatened species from across the African
   Continent (e.g., large mammals and reptiles, migratory birds, fish, and unique desert, savanna, and
   forest vegetation formations). Likewise, the Logone-Chari river system emptying into Lake Chad is a
   watercourse of great global and regional importance. Most of Chad's critical ecosystems are either not
   formally protected, or ineffectively protected due to a lack of resources; moreover, while environmental
   protection is a national priority, for much of the population, meeting basic needs is a more urgent
   priority. As a result, these unique ecosystems are at risk of serious and irreversible degradation,
   stemming from poor management of water resources, the progressive depletion and declining fertility of
   agricultural soils, the extensification of agricultural production, and the encroachment of human
   settlements on natural habitats. For example, the Lake Chad Basin, which supports a mosaic of
   societies and cultures to sustain agricultural and pastoral activities, has been under marked pressure

                                                   2
                                                                                                       PID


from desertification and environmental degradation accelerated by demand for land and water. Other
rivers, lakes, and oases provide key habitats for numerous species, many of which are endemic and
endangered. According to the UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Center, 6 animal species are
currently critically endangered (including the addax, the northern white rhinoceros and the black
rhinoceros), 6 are endangered (including the Addra and Rhim gazelle, the giant otter, the saker falcon,
the African wild dog, and the elephant) and 16 are vulnerable, while 1 is now extinct in the wild (the
Sahara oryx). In the Saharan zone, natural migrations of addax and oryx have been disturbed by
poaching and the effects of drought. In the Sahelian zone, elephants, ostriches and certain waterfowl
species have almost disappeared due to the loss of vegetation in temporary streams and overgrazing by
small ruminants. In the Sudano-Sahelian zone, feline populations (lions and panthers) and large
antelopes (Derby Elands) are disappearing due to increased human pressure on their habitat. In the
Sudanian zone, where buffalos, giraffes and rhinoceros are threatened, unique vegetal associations
combining woody species, shrubs and grasses are found in great variety, but are threatened by
expanding agricultural activity. In addition, poor management of fish resources has led to the
near-disappearance of certain fish species (eels, capitaines, etc.) due to overexploitation and water
pollution.

Issue 2: Desertification, land degradation, and land-use conflicts. Desertification, soil degradation,
deforestation and decline in the quantity and quality of water resources are phenomenon that have
worsened in Chad over the last thirty years. The seriousness of these threats is mounting and their
socioeconomic effects are becoming increasingly evident. Although Chad signed and ratified the
UNCCD and has elaborated an accompanying National Action Plan (NAP) partially integrated into
key rural development strategies, financing, capacity, and coordination barriers have checked a scale
up in the implementation of activities that could generate a measurable reversal in land degradation
trends. Land-use conflicts between pastoral and agricultural activities have intensified, contributing to
migration pressures and undermining social cohesion. Production capital is threatened and in some
cases already compromised by land degradation and soil erosion, deforestation, and desertification,
subjecting the population in several areas to precarious economic conditions and sometimes forcing
them to migrate. The perpetuation of open-access land-use policies threatens the integrity and
sustainability of Chad's natural assets, particularly its forests, woodlots, and pasturelands. Brush fires,
an unsystematic distribution of water points, and lack of respect for existing grazing corridors are
threatening biodiversity in the pasturelands. With population growth and migration (particularly in the
Sudanian zone), natural vegetation in wetlands, prairies, and woodlands are being systematically
cleared for food production. Demographic pressures and the growing pains of economic development
are creating a vicious cycle of mounting ecological damage and low rural productivity. To meet basic
human energy needs, almost the entire population depends upon the unsustainable consumption of
wood fuel and charcoal. And the rural production of firewood and charcoal contributes little to the
communities where the resources are located, because a supportive regulatory framework and local
management structures are lacking. As a result, "rings" of desertification and deforestation have
developed around major population centers (e.g., N'Djamena, Moundou, Ati, Abéché, and Bongor);
moreover, these practices add to Chad's net greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the fertility and
carbon storage capacity of its soils. These patterns are reinforcing poverty and curbing the future
economic growth potential of the country, particularly in the rural sector.

Issue 3: Weak organization of rural communities and limited involvement in decisions concerning their
development. The range of environmental challenges impeding Chad's sustainable economic
development are intimately connected to weak local governance structures, particularly in the domain
of natural resources management. While Chad's development priorities emphasize the imperative to
ensure the long-term health and productivity of its natural resource base, and the Government of Chad

                                                      3
                                                                                                        PID


supports policies that integrate natural resource management into decentralized structures and plans,
the process of decentralization is still in its early stages. Only a few projects have set up informal local
development decision bodies, but they remain in the pilot stage and depend on donors for financial
support. A weak framework for decentralized environmental governance has contributed to a rise in
conflict over land use, particularly between demand for agricultural activities and existing wildlife and
protected areas. Likewise, the Chadian legal framework regarding environmental management
discourages participatory environmental management schemes and could benefit from some additions
or modifications, especially those pertaining to land tenure and security.

Issue 4: Weak local capacities, and limited technical and environmental knowledge base. National
capacity to manage natural resources and ecosystems, particularly protected areas and their buffer
zones, is very limited. One of the principal constraints to the protection of Chadian ecosystems includes
weak capacity for monitoring and enforcement of the protection of protected areas, including lack of
equipment of personnel of the Ministry of Environment and Water (MEW). Fewer than 500 agents in
the Ministry of Environment and Water are charged with environmental and/or water management in
the entire country, and budgetary constraints are severe. Training decentralized agents of the MEW and
traditional authorities in the management of ecosystems is minimal, and there are few means to
undertake surveys and inventories of indigenous species and other natural assets. While climatic and
demographic factors are among the root causes of desertification and biodiversity loss, lack of
appropriate natural resources management skills confounds the situation. Available techniques for
reducing soil erosion, improving soil fertility, and increasing woody biomass could be used widely
given adequate support for capacity building. Such techniques would also have a positive impact on
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting carbon sequestration. Exacerbating this is the
limited information basis for long-term environmental monitoring and decision-making, particularly in
the rural space. Only basic data on protected areas is available, while wildlife censuses in many areas
are often more than 25 years old. No ongoing scientific observation of desertification is taking place,
and most decisions and interventions are made on limited local and often biased information, leading to
poor resource rationalization.

Government strategy

The Poverty Reduction Strategy. With 80% of the population living on less than $1 a day, Chad is one
of the poorest countries in the world. Poverty is most prevalent in rural areas, where about 80% of the
population resides; rural areas must be the primary target of interventions aimed at reducing poverty
and increasing growth. The Government of Chad adopted its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
in June 2003. The GEF project is designed to support the implementation of the PRSP, whose five
axes touch upon many of its core objectives, including promoting good governance and the restoration
and conservation of fragile ecosystems. The project will advance participation of rural communities in
local development and the establishment of linkages between decentralization and ecosystem
management, which is a strategic objective of the PRSP.

Rural Development Strategy. The Government's rural development strategy was presented to donors at
the Geneva IV Sectoral Consultation on Rural Development in June 1999. Its objective is to increase
production in a sustainable way that preserves the environment while reinforcing institutional and
human capacities. The key elements of the rural development strategy are: (i) increasing agricultural
productivity in a sustainable manner; (ii) supporting development of competitive suply chains; (iii)
promoting sustainable management and development of natural resources; (iv) improving promoting
the rural sector; (v) and improving the efficiency of the public sertor. Concerning the promotion of
natural resources and rural productivity, the strategy emphasizes the following aspects: (i) the

                                                  4
                                                                                                      PID


consultation and consensus-building with rural communities; (ii) the promotion of better soil and water
management; (iii) the participatory management of the rural space, conservation of biodiversity, and
prevention of desertification and deforestation under an integrated ecosystem management approach;
and (iv) the integration of priority national actions and strategies under major international
environmental conventions in local and regional development plans.

National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The NEAP, elaborated with the assistance of UNDP and
the World Bank, defines the Government of Chad's broad strategic principles and establishes its
long-term priorities for environmental protection. The NEAP seeks to establish a collaborative
framework for the implementation of activities by the Government, international partners, and NGOs,
while raising awareness and increasing the participation of all stakeholders in sustainable natural
resource utilization. Through a comprehensive analysis of the state of the environment in all domains,
Chad's NEAP advocates several measures to enhance the management of the country's fragile
ecosystems. The NEAP is expected to be executed on the ground through local village, cantonal and
departmental development plans, taking into account local needs through cross-sectoral planning.
Indeed, a number of the priorities covered under the NEAP would be addressed in the implementation
of the GEF Community-Based Ecosystem Management project and selected aspects of the baseline
projects under the PIDR. The NEAP and relevant associated legislation will soon be adopted as official
government policy.

National Biodiversity Protection Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP). The Government of Chad ratified
the UNCBD in 1994, and under the direction of the High National Committee on the Environment
subsequently developed a National Biodiveristy Protection Strategy and associated Biodiversity
Strategic Action Plan (BSAP). The overall thrust of these are to ensure for the sustainable exploitation
of biodiversity in Chad, taking into account the development aspirations of the population and
reconciling the objectives of local economic development with those of biodiversity conservation. The
BSAP highlights the urgent need to develop and apply innovative and holistic approaches toward the
management of environmental resources, attitudes, behaviors and initiatives. Its five core objectives are
to: (i) improve knowledge and monitoring of biological diversity; (ii) inventory ecosystems and
threatened species and reduce criminal acts (in particular bush fires) in and around protected areas; (iii)
increase use of substitution resources, including consumption of wood energy; (iv) adopt techniques for
a more sustainable exploitation of agriculture, fisheries, and forests in order to conserve biodiversity;
and (v) promote a more equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity exploitation and promotion of
collective responsibility and community-based actions to promote biodiversity conservation.

                                                      5
                                                                                                         PID


   National Action Plan Against Desertification (NAP). The Government of Chad signed the UNCCD in
   September 1997 and adopted its National Action Plan (NAP) to combat desertification (Plan d'Action
   National de Lutte Contre la Désertification) in September 2002. The NAP aims to safeguard Chad's
   most important and threatened ecosystems, while improving national policies and capacity to preserve
   the production potential of land and water and to mitigate the effects of drought. The NAP has four
   overarching objectives: (i) to protect, restore and develop Chad's productive potential to achieve
   sustainable agriculture and livestock production, protected and enhanced fisheries, and to promote
   human habitat planning in a manner respectful of the environment; (ii) to protect and safeguard
   important and threatened ecosystems, in particular, Lake Chad, Lake Fitri, the Ouadis, the oasis and
   the koro lands ; (iii) to build human capacities and adapt legal and institutional frameworks to combat
   desertification, particularly among rural populations, NGOs, and public agencies ; (iv) to manage risks
   and uncertainties exacerbating the fragility of ecosystems and human-induced drivers of land
   degradation. A National Coordination Committee and focal point attached to the Cabinet of the MEE
   (established by decree No 0041MET/DG/95) ensures the coordination, implementation and follow-up
   of urgent actions. Regional and local committees have also begun to formulate regional action plans.
   Through the GEF project, national and regional NAP priorities will be better integrated into local
   development plans in priority areas.

   Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. Under the Ramsar Convention, which the Government of Chad
   ratified in 1990, three wetlands whose ecological services are of global significance and national
   importance were identified in the country: the Chadian part of the Lake Chad, the Logone River flood
   plains, and Mayo-Kebbi watershed basin. With the assistance of WWF, an inventory of these areas
   was carried out in 2000. As a Party to the Convention, the Government of Chad is obliged to support
   the conservation and the rational use of these wetland areas, some of which are contained within the
   GEF project's priority intervention zones.

2. Objectives
   The objective of the GEF Community Based Ecosystem Management Project is to restore some of the
   Recipient's most fragile ecosystems by enabling local communities to better fight desertification,
   rehabilitate degraded lands and protect biodiversity. It will be fully integrated into the design and
   implementation of the first phase of the PROADEL, whose development objective is to reduce poverty,
   promote sustainable rural development, and establish a participatory, decentralized financing
   mechanism for community-driven development initiatives.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
   Synergies between Development Objective and Global Environmental Objective

    GEF activities closely parallel and complement each of the four components of the PROADEL, as
    well as some associated aspects of the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
    (ASPOP) and the PRODABO and PRODALKA decentralized development programs, all of which
    are part of the PIDR. In this way, the integration of holistic community-based ecosystem management
    approaches and methodologies vetted by the GEF into local development planning will improve the
    design of PROADEL and by extension the other projects of the PIDR, while serving as an umbrella
    framework under which a range of interventions and collaborations can be coordinated. This
    overarching structure, particularly in focusing on local and decentralized implementation, will
    facilitate a more systematic implementation of the NEAP and create synergies with other key national
    strategies relating to biodiversity conservation and land management. The project will benefit from a
    national and cross-sectoral framework, as well as decentralized management structures and logistics.
    Since baseline activities will contribute to supporting the basic needs of communities, the likelihood of

                                                  6
                                                                                                      PID


 success of GEF activities will be higher, as they will be in a better position to address longer-term
 issues contributing to the perpetuation of poverty.

Catalytic role of GEF

The GEF is uniquely positioned to support the project's objectives and it is unlikely that these would be
achieved in the absence of GEF support. Without incremental GEF finance, integrated ecosystem
management is not likely to be emphasized in any coherent way in decentralized development planning,
or articulated as a priority in local development plans. As a result, habitats of global importance could
suffer from irreversible degradation. It is also improbable that a purely demand-driven rural
development project could effectively address Chad's multiple environmental challenges, nor, given
Chad's high level of rural poverty, that communities would prioritize investments in sustainable land
and natural resource management without incremental GEF funding for capacity building and piloting.
The provision of basic services and food security are so important in Chad that, even if there is a
shared agreement that biodiversity protection and land management are important to rural
communities, only scattered attention would be given to this critical issue without a more coherent
framework for interventions. GEF resources will also be used to catalyze support from the donor
community in future phases to sustain and broaden project activities. The project will also create
synergies with other ongoing GEF-supported activities in Chad and the West/Central Africa region,
thereby bolstering the global environmental objectives achieved. Among these synergistic projects
include:

l Reversal of Land and Water Degradation Trends in the Lake Chad Basin Ecosystem (GEF /
    UNDP and IBRD);

l Participatory Conservation in the Manda National Park, Moyen Chari Region in Southeastern
    Chad (GEF / UNDP);

l Building Scientific and Technical Capacity for Effective Management and Sustainable Use of
    Dryland Biodiversity in West African Biosphere Reserves (GEF / UNEP);

l Institutional Strengthening and Resource Mobilization for Mainstreaming Integrated Land and
    Water Management Approaches into Development Programs in Africa (GEF / IBRD);

l Rural Policy Design, Planning and Monitoring Support Project (PAEPS).


Donor coordination

The Bank plays an important role in donor coordination in Chad, having established a network with
major donors and a common approach to rural development under the PIDR. The GEF project will
extend the Bank's partnerships with bilateral donors under the PROADEL, which is co-financed by the
French Development Agency (AFD), by joining forces with the German Development Cooperation.
The latter's efforts to promote natural resource management and community based ecosystem
management in two critical areas of the country under the PRODALKA and PRODABO programs are
focused on two critical sub-regions of Chad (Mayo-Dallah, Lac Léré and Kabia in the Southwest, and
the Biltine-Ouara regions in the Far East of the country). This arrangement will ensure that investments
on the ground can proceed more rapidly and that a common vision among donors can begin to be
formed regarding the expansion of community based ecosystem management approaches across a
wider area of the country. Formal cooperation with the German Development Cooperation will be

                                                       7
                                                                                                            PID


   supplemented by other informal collaborations with ongoing related programs in Chad. Twice a year,
   the donors will meet and take joint strategic decisions on project performance and to monitor the
   achievement of global objectives.

4. Description

   The project has four components: (i) Financial support for community-based ecosystem management
   subprojects, (ii) capacity building for integrated ecosystem management, (iii) support for an enabling
   environment for community-based ecosystem management, and (iv) management and monitoring
   support.


   Component 1: Financial support for community-based ecosystem management subprojects

   The GEF project will co-finance subprojects to support community-based ecosystem preservation and
   natural resouce management activities within the GEF Priority Zones. Eligibility will be restricted to
   activities that are requested by communities and fit into their Local Development Plans (prepared under
   the baseline) and the ecosystem management schemes (prepared under Component 2). Some of the
   activites likely to be eligible include, inter alia: the reforestation and rehabilitation of gallery forests;
   development of grazing corridors; community co-management of protected areas; introduction of
   agro-forestry techniques; development of local drought management plans and bushfire awareness and
   control programs; and pilots to demonstrate or disseminate more sustainable, alternative energy
   technologies and practices, such as more efficient cooking stoves. To avoid capture of resources by
   elites, the project would ensure that every process (subproject identification, selection, and
   implementation) is participatory and management of resources is transparent. To ensure sustainability
   of investments, beneficiary contributions would be mandatory, with local maintenance responsibility.

   Component 2: Capacity building for integrated ecosystem management

   Subcomponent 2.1: Integrated Ecosystem Management Schemes

   The GEF grant will support collaboration between key stakeholders to pursue integrated ecosystem
   management priorities at larger scales and to prepare sustainable and long-term ecosystem management
   schemes in GEF priority zones, through the provision of technical and organizational assistance. This
   will include (i) binding charters or conventions between riparian communities that codify their intent to
   cooperate and co-manage fragile ecosystems in partnership with local government, traditional local
   authorities, and decentralized agents of the MEW, and (ii) identifying beneficial subprojects that could
   be implemented at the community level.

   Subcomponent 2.2: Training of actors

   The project will support training activities to the benefit of the communities and technical service
   agencies on ecosystem management. Specific training will be elaborated, such that the
   conceptualization of subprojects (i.e. those aimed at reducing soil erosion, maintaining forest cover,
   promoting local tourism) can address biodiversity conservation and broader ecosystem challenges, such
   as watershed management. The project would disseminate an Integrated Ecosystem Management
   Guideline Document as a capacity building tool for consolidating approaches in local development
   planning.

   Component 3: Support for an enabling environment for community-based ecosystem management

                                                8
                                                                                                   PID




Subcomponent 3.1: Improvement of the legal and regulatory framework

This would consist of analytical support to establish a sound legal and regulatory framework for
community participation in environmental management and joint management of protected areas. Some
of the more ugent priorities are to support the application of the Law 16 on Forestry, Fauna and
Fishing, its extension on the taxation of forest resources to the other cities of the country, and the
finalization of the decrees of Law 14/98. The project will also assist in the validation, awareness
raising, and support for campaigns to advocate for these reforms by and among communities.

                                                     9
                                                                                                     PID




   Subcomponent 3.2: Institutional support

   Support would be extended to better identify capacity needs and fiscal reforms necessary to implement
   the legal and regulatory reforms advanced in subcomponent 3.1, particularly among the relevant line
   ministries. As with subcomponent 3.1, advocacy campaigns to effect more decentralized in
   environmental governance and the validation by communities of selected reform measures would be
   supported on a demand-driven basis. In addition, institutional and technical capacities of MEW would
   be strengthened under this sub-component, to improve skills, monitoring and enforcement powers.

   Subcomponent 3.3: Sustainable financing

   This subcomponent will support the promotion of partnerships between communities and external
   sources of financing outside of the GEF to sustain ecosystem management schemes. The project will
   prioritize (i) the support to the Government for the definition and implementation of a National Fund
   for the Environnment, and (ii) the support for the development of a framework for community
   parnterships that could assist communities to identify long-term co-financing of ecosystem management
   activities, enhance cooperation with international foundations and NGOs, manage their legal and
   financial interests vis a vis potential international partners and private companies, and design pilot
   projects eligible for international investment under emerging environmental market schemes, such as
   carbon finance.

   Component 4: Management and monitoring support

   Subcomponent 4.1: Support to project management

   Day-to-day management of project activities would be assured by the PMU of the PROADEL and
   additional staff would be recruited by the Ministry of Land Management, Urbanism, and Habitat: a
   GEF Specialist, an assistant for monitoring and evaluation, and an GEF accountant.

   Subcomponent 4.2: Support to project monitoring and evaluation

   This subcomponent will finance the monitoring and evaluation of the project's impacts as well as the
   outcomes of its investments in community based ecosystem management subprojects.

   Subcomponent 4.3: Monitoring of ecosystem management at the national level

   The project will strengthen the monitoring and evaluation system of ecosystem management at the
   national level, through inter alia supporting a feasibility study for the establishment of a National
   Observatory of Natural Resources.

   For each component the preliminary cost estimates are as follows:
Financial support for community-based ecosystem management subprojects : US$2.7 M
Capacity building for integrated ecosystem management: US$1.86 M
Support for an enabling environment for community-based ecosystem management: US$1.72 M
Management and monitoring support: US$2.12 M

                                                      10
                                                                                                          PID


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($17.64)
GERMANY: BMZ ($22.00)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES ($3.60)
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT ($5.45)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IDA FUND ($39.76)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($6.00)
Total Project Cost: $94.45

6. Implementation

   Since the GEF project will be fully integrated into the PROADEL, the Ministry of Land Management,
   Urbanism, and Habitat (MATUH) shall have institutional responsibility for the project. MATUH
   would therefore be responsible for administrative, financial and accounting management of the project
   and would in particular ensure (i) consistency with contractual documents (Development Grant
   Agreement, Project Implementation Manual, Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial
   Manual, Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, Procurement Plan) and (ii) provision of financial
   management reports and completion of annual audits. The Ministry of Environment and Water will be
   accountable for technical quality through a CBEM Scientific and Technical Committee established by
   Arrêté No 023/PR/PM/MEE/SG/0. More details on implementation arrangements are detailed in the
   Project Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual and the
   Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual.

   Intervening structures for the project's orientation, execution and follow-up include:


       l The PROADEL Steering Committee, which is a technical committee to monitor and follow
           up all PIDR projects. It (i) examines and approves the balance sheet of the previous period's
           activities and (ii) adopts the action programs and budgets.


       l The CBEM Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee will review the technical elements
           of the project's activities having a national scope, guarantee the coherence and scientific quality
           of activities, and take part to the monitoring, and evaluation of the project from a technical
           standpoint.

       l The PROADEL Project Management Unit, would be responsible for coordinating the
           implementation of the project.

       l Local project management units of each of the relevant baseline projects under the PIDR.
           Three sub-regional local management units for the PROADEL comprise an administrator, a
           monitoring and evaluation specialist, a capacity-building and communication specialist, an
           environmental and social specialist, and an accountant. They would be responsible for (i) the
           implementation of capacity building activities at the local level, (ii) monitoring the management
           of funds transferred to beneficiaries to cofinance subprojects, (iii) monitoring and evaluation of
           activities at the local level, and (iv) distributing information to the local stakeholders and the
           PMU. In the sites covered by the PRODALKA and PRODABO, this support will be ensured
           by their project coordination units. Follow-up and support of subprojects related to soil
           fertility, will be handled by the Inter-regional Coordination and Management Units of ASPOP.
           This collaboration will be done within the framework of conventions whose objectives and

                                                   11
                                                                                                     PID


        terms will be studied by the persons in charge for the various projects and by the various
        financial contributors.

    l Decentralized Project Approval Committees for each of the relevant baseline projects.
        Subprefectoral/Departmental Decision and Approval Committees are organs that have been
        created under the framework of the PROADEL and would examine and approve subprojects
        elaborated and proposed by PROADEL eligible beneficiaries in GEF priority zones in
        PROADEL project area. These committees consist of representatives of: (i) deconcentrated
        line ministries concerned with submitted subprojects; (ii) an NGO chosen by his or her peers;
        (iii) local rural organizations; and (iv) community-based organizations. In the GEF intervention
        zones covered by PRODALKA and PRODABO, this function will be ensured by the
        appropriate local decision committees of the PRODALKA and PRODABO. Subprojects
        related to soil fertility and restoration will be examined by the local decision selection
        committees of ASPOP. More details are available in the PIM.


    l Local Communities, with farmers, stockbreeders, fishermen, community associations, etc. at
        their core. Individuals in rural communities would form community-based organizations, where
        all local shareholders would meet with a secretariat to organize meetings and write reports. The
        meetings would allow communities to assess their needs and prepare Local Development Plans
        in a participatory manner. Local communities will submit for approval their proposals for
        co-financing micro-investments in the GEF priority intervention areas to various existing local
        decision committees, as described above. During the approval process, requests are reviewed
        by local project management units to check on conformity with the project's guidelines. Upon
        approval, they are forwarded to the PMU which transfers funds to beneficiaries to finance the
        subprojects. The project would subcontract with service providers to support beneficiaries in
        subprojects implementation.

Program Management and Monitoring

Day-to-day management of project activities would be assured by the PROADEL's Project
Management Unit (PMU) in N'Djamena, with members recruited by MATUH and under the direct
supervision of the PROADEL National Coordinator. The National Coordinator works in close
cooperation with the GEF Specialist and the Financial Management Specialist (FMS). The PMU is
responsible for: (i) coordinating overall implementation of the project, (ii) managing project activities
implemented at the central level, (iii) ensuring availability of funds, (iv) maintaining the books and
accounts of project activities and producing financial reports, (v) monitoring and evaluating
implementation and impacts of the project, (vi) reporting results to various stakeholders
(administration, donors, civil society, projects, Decision Committees), and (vii) providing guidance and
technical assistance to decentralized PROADEL teams in Koumra, Moundou, and N'Djamena and staff
in the baseline projects ASPOP, PRODALKA and PRODABO. Additional staff have been or would be
recruited within the PMU for the implementation of GEF activities: (i) a GEF Specialist, (ii) an
Assistant in Monitoring and Evaluation, (iii) a GEF Accountant, (iv) a Secretary, and (v) two drivers.

A comprehensive Project Implementation Manual, Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, and a
Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual prepared by the Government of Chad were
reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. The Project Implementation Manual defines procedural
arrangements for implementing the project and includes guidelines for identifying, approving,
implementing, supervising, and evaluating subprojects. The detailed configuration of the PMU, the

                                                    12
                                                                                                      PID


profile of the staff, and their job descriptions are also described in the Project Implementation Manual.

Financial Mechanisms and Flow of Funds (see annex 11)

Financing of the the project's expenditures will be based upon the GEF Grant Account opened at the
level of the World Bank in Washington. The Special accounts A and B (respectively for the financing
of community subprojects on the one hand, and other operational and capital expenditures on the other
hand) and the National Counterpart Funds Account will be maintained in N'Djamena. Thus, resources
necessary for financing the activities will come from:

l GEF Grant Account opened in Washington, DC for Authorized Withdrawal and the Replenishment
    of Special Accounts A and B, and for direct payments to suppliers ;

l Special Accounts A and B (open in a Commercial Bank considered to be acceptable by The Bank)
    for all the expenditure in front of on the spot financed in the country by the resources of the GEF;
    and

l National Counterpart Funds Account (open in a Commercial Bank acceptable by The Bank), for
    expenditures to be financed by the Government.

Financial Management Arrangements

The financial management will be ensured by the PROADEL's FMS in collaboration with the GEF
Accountant. Expenditures will be budgeted by the PMU of the PROADEL, and more especially the
GEF Specialist and its Accountant. All the payments will be made upon the triple signature of the
National Coordinator of the PROADEL, the FMS of the PROADEL and the GEF Specialist. Daily
accounting and financial operations and the preparation of Disbursement Requests will be carried out
by the GEF Accountant under the supervision of the FMS of the PROADEL. The system of financial
management based on a requirement of triple signature will guarantee (i) the technical responsibility of
the MEW for technical decisions made by the GEF Specialist in conjunction with the Scientific and
Technical Advisory Committee, (ii) the moral and financial responsibility of MATUH to ensure
supervision of all the measures of the PROADEL through the Coordinator and the FMS.

    1. Capacity Assessment of the PMU

A PMU with a competent and experienced staff, including a coordinator, an administrative and
financial management specialist, a principal accountant, a GEF Specialist to be complemented by a
GEF accountant, have already been recruited through a competitive process acceptable to the Bank.
Adequate provision would be made to train the accounting and financial staff. The PMU includes an
experianced procurement specialist. At the field level, there are three LPMUs, comprising in particular
an administrator, a monitoring and evaluation specialist and an accountant. The project would benefit
from the extension of the financial management system, already acceptable to the Bank, which has been
established for the PROADEL. The system would provide the Recipient and the Bank with accurate
and timely information on resources and expenditures. The financial management system would include
budgetary accounting and financial reporting for internal control device and auditing elements. The
PMU would be responsible for project administrative and technical coordination and financial
management of the project.

    2. Accounting

                                                 13
                                                                                                      PID




The PMU would maintain the books and accounts of the project activities and ensure that the annual
financial statements are produced in a timely manner. The PMU would be responsible for consolidating
project accounts. The computerized accounting and financial management system installed for the
PROADEL will be extended to include the GEF activities. This would also include the preparation of
guidelines for using the software, in accordance with procedures in the Project Administrative,
Accounting and Financial Management Manual to be approved by the Bank. The accounting and
financial management staff will be trained accordingly on the operation of the computerized accounting
system. The PMU would maintain its accounts in accordance with international accounting standards,
keeping all documentation related to project expenditures and following sound accounting practices for
all financial records. These accounts would be consolidated with records to be made available to Bank
missions and independent auditors. The accounts of the project would be audited annually.

Financial Monitoring Reports

The FMS of PROADEL with the support of the GEF Accountant would be responsible for preparing
the Financial Monitoring Reports, according to procedures laid out in the Project Administrative,
Accounting and Financial Management Manual. The National Coordinator of the PROADEL would be
responsible for ensuring that the reports are provided to the Bank on a timely basis. Financial
Management Reports would show (i) whether funds disbursed to subprojects are used for the intended
purpose; (ii) whether project implementation is on track; and (iii) whether costs remained within
budget. Financial information would be explicitly linked with the project's progress and procurement.
The quarterly financial monitoring reports would include (i) discussion of project progress, (ii) sources
and uses of funds, (iii) uses of funds by expenditure type, (iv) an output monitoring report, and (v) a
procurement report. The computerized accounting system would be customized to generate the
Financial Monitoring Reports as indicated in "Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank­Financed
Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers:" with a statement showing cash receipts by source, expenditures by
main classification, beginning and ending cash balances of the project, and supporting schedules
comparing actual and planned expenditures. Adequate financial management arrangements, including
the ability to produce a timely Financial Monitoring Report, would be in place by credit effectiveness.
A separate module of the PROADEL financial management and accounting system will be created to
account for the financial and technical data for the activities financed by the GEF. This will make it
possible to produce financial management reports and technical reports for the project activities.

Auditing

The audit of the project's activities, including preparation activities under the PDF-B grant, will be
carried out by the independent firm already selected by competitive recruitment for the PROADEL.
Project records and accounts would be audited in accordance with international audit standards. The
audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no more than six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year. In addition to a standard short-form report with an opinion on the annual
financial statements, the auditors would be required to: (i) review all statements of expenditure and the
internal control procedures governing their preparation for the period under audit and express a
separate opinion on them; (ii) review the management and use of the special account and the project
account and express a separate opinion on each; and (iii) review the internal control system of the
project--to identify its major weaknesses and shortcomings--and propose practical recommendations
for improvement. Auditors would also perform interim audits (nine months into the fiscal year) to
review the internal control system, including management performance, and issue reports no more than
one month from the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports would

                                                      14
                                                                                                           PID


    be addressed by management without delay (no more than six months from the end of the fiscal year)
    before the final audit.

7. Sustainability
    The project's long-term vision is a sound enabling environment for community-based ecosystem
    management using public resources that are managed in a participatory and decentralized manner.
    While the project will establish transitory structures to this end that rely on donor financing, particular
    attention would be paid to the institutional and financial sustainability of interventions. The
    Government has provided clear assurances to guarantee the sustainability of project interventions, and
    actions and commitments to advance decentralization, co-management of protected areas, and more
    equitable land tenure and natural resources management structures have already been taken. The Law
    on Oil Revenue Management envisions a progressive integration of a percentage of oil revenues or
    Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Debt Initiative funds into decentralized public resources
    management frameworks. In this way, the most typical barrier to sustainability--long-term
    funding--will be addressed by the project's efforts to "institutionalize" more decentralized funding
    mechanisms for environmental management activities and to establish a pipeline of community
    conceived and vetted subprojects.

    The strategic approach of the project rests on the assumption that early direct engagement and
    empowerment of communities is fundamental to creating proper incentives for socially and
    environmentally sustainable natural resource exploitation and that environmental subprojects must be
    analyzed in the context of their economic feasibility and contribution to livelihoods. Sustainability of
    subproject investments is primarily ensured by the participation of beneficiaries in all decisions and by
    their financial and other in-kind contributions. Beneficiaries would be responsible for defining their
    priorities, supervising implementation, and managing and maintaining such investments. Furthermore,
    sustainability of all investments financed under the project is a key criterion for approval. Beneficiaries
    must have developed a maintenance plan outlining responsibilities, management, and financing
    arrangements, and availability of necessary human resources.

    Additional arguments for the sustainability of project interventions include the following:

   l The long-term, phased approach of the PIDR and specific PROADEL activities, which affords
        flexibility, continuous feedback, and a regular schedule of periodic adjustments in its targets, is a
        sound framework in which to guarantee the sustainability of interventions.

   l In forging collaboration among stakeholders, including civil society and local research institutions,
        the project will facilitate a shared vision of roles and responsibilities in IEM and build a durable
        partnership to sustain the achievements of the program.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
    Lessons from the Bank's experience in Chad

    Through implementation of community-based decentralized development funds (FOSAP, PSAP,
    FACIL), the Bank has learned that:

   l If local groups are adequately trained and monitored, they are capable of managing the entire
        subproject cycle, from needs assessment through payment of service providers.

   l Disbursement efficiency is paramount in acquiring and maintaining local interest and dynamics.

                                                  15
                                                                                                      PID




l The GOC cannot protect or manage biodiversity in general, and protected areas in particular,
    without the endorsement and participation of local communities and the strengthening of local
    management capacities.

l Communities will not accept the additional costs (in time or money) imposed by sound natural
    resources management including conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem functions if they do
    not understand the benefits.

l The interconnected mix of environmental and socio-economic threats to the preservation of Chad's
    globally significant environmental assets demands holistic approaches that can balance the
    ecological, economic, social, and financial needs of communities and the imperative of poverty
    reduction. However, these approaches have heretofore been very limited or lacking.

Household Energy Project (CR 30820 CD, closed on June 30, 2004) aimed to create local
management structures at the village level to manage wood resources. Some 100 villages now manage
their resources and generate sustainable income from a woodfuel tax and the sale of woodfuels. With
considerable effort, it is possible to develop adequate management capacity at the village level. It is
necessary to involve all possible stakeholders in the process, even those not directly involved. The
project had four components: (i) establishing village-based natural resource management--this
component builds the capacity to design simple long-term village land-use and wood exploitation plans
for villages in the N'Djamena wood fuel catchment area by funding the technical assistance for
nongovernmental organizations, forestry agents, and villagers to develop a master plan and thereafter
manage and control fuelwood use; (ii) building the capacity of the Agency for Household Energy and
Environment (AEDE) to monitor and control wood product flow through charging collecting user
fees/taxes; (iii) improving the efficiency of household fuel use by commercializing efficient cooking
stoves (firewood, charcoal); and promoting the use of low-cost kerosene and liquid petroleum gas
(LPG) stoves with publicity and NGO-sponsored promotional activities as well as testing, product
development, and monitoring of stove performance; and (iv) capacity building and training as a part of
project management. Pilot programs show that it is possible to implement systems of collection and
marketing of the wood fuel which benefit communities and allow for sustainable regeneration of wood
resources. However, it is important to closely follow the environmental impact, so that communities do
not have incentives for excessive deforestation. This conclusion was also made by the Decentralization
Project and Local Governorship of Ferlo in Senegal. The project entertains a key role for AEDE in
facilitating communities to achieve a sustainable replication of the results acquired in the N'Djamena
area to the Lac Weye and Moundou Charcoal Supply Basin zone.

West African Pilot Pastoral Project (Programme Pastoral Pilote Ouest Africain - PPPOA). This
project demonstrated the viability in Chad of participatory community-based approaches to improved
natural resource management, in pastoral habitats, and the desirability of linking these to other
community demands (e.g., social services) under a more holistic approach. A number of important
lessons were learned that have been incorporated into the design of the project. Crop/livestock
interactions should be harnessed to a greater extent in order to maximize the economic returns to rural
subprojects. It is important for project success that the procedures for preparation of local development
plans and sustainable community-based natural resource management are extremely simplified.
Likewise, the institutional architecture and procedures for obtaining financing should be as transparent,
autonomous, non-complex, and expedient as possible. Particularly in the initial phases, technical
experts and extension agents should focus their assistance to demonstrate and disseminate the lessons
from successful pilot approaches, while the ultimate elaboration of projects should rest in the hands of

                                                  16
                                                                                                       PID


communities. It is important that real capacity for using analytical tools be built at the outset of the
project within communities, and that facilitators and extension agents play a hands-off role. In addition,
monitoring and evaluation systems and frameworks need to be designed with a very practical
orientation, in order for local stakeholders to compile reliable data which can persuasively demonstrate
positive outcomes. Local capacity must be built in monitoring methods, and indicators should include
indicators related to rural productivity as well as ecosystem health. Among the most frequently
articulated needs from pastoral communities included: access to water, a veterinary pharmacy, a
vaccination park, a collection place for milk, and access to credit. In addition, the Chadian National
Livestock Breeding Program of 1994 showed that it was possible to arrange pastoral spaces in zones of
exploitation controlled below load capacities and that areas under management not only make it
possible to ensure good quality pasture, but for increased productivity of livestock, soil fertility
regeneration, and biodiversity conservation.

Lessons from the Bank's experience in other countries

The design of the project also incorporates experiences acquired in other countries in the West/Central
African region, including:

Niger Natural Resources Management Project. This project demonstrated a solid record of success
and proved that communities have substantial capacity for local development in the area of natural
resources management. The project was given "satisfactory" ratings across-the-board upon completion,
and the sustainability of its interventions was rated as "likely," particularly as a large share of
communities involved in the project indicated their intention to self-finance subprojects identified under
the project. Simplified community-based procurement procedures were introduced and implemented
after the midterm review, and the new procedures were successfully implemented by all communities in
the project, even with the handicap of a sparse network of bank agencies (as in Chad). This is an
important precedent for the Chad project, as the socio-economic and environmental contexts are quite
similar, particularly in the rural sphere: fragile ecosystems, weak local communities, inefficient
provision of basic services, and slowly emerging decentralization.

Senegal: Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project (SPEMP/PROGEDE). This
US$20 million IDA/GEF project is aimed at helping Senegal meet its rapidly growing demand for
household fuels without the loss of forest cover, while enhancing and diversifying local incomes and
empowering rural women. A sustainable system capable of producing more than 400,000 tons of
fuelwood per year has been established, and deforestation in the Tambacounda and Kolda regions has
been reduced by some 30,000 hectares per year through community-based management plans. The
incremental annual income in the project zone from the sale of sustainable fuelwood and the promotion
of complementary new agricultural and animal husbandry products has reached more than US$9.5
million. Moreover, an incremental market penetration of 83,000 improved charcoal stoves and of
11,500 kerosene stoves has been achieved.

                                                     17
                                                                                                       PID


9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues   : Under PROADEL, an Environmental Assessment was completed prior to its appraisal,
with local stakeholders involved in the preparation. The final environmental assessment included an
Environmental and Social Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy Framework and was
received by the Bank on November 5, 2002, and have been available in Chad and at the Bank's Infoshop
since November 21, 2002. Consultants have met with local associations, local authorities, and NGOs in
several départements representative of each agroecological zone (sudanian, sahelo-sudanian, and sahellian)
to identify and appreciate subprojects that would be requested by communities and funded by the project.
The consultants could therefore evaluate related potential environmental impacts. However any subproject
could affect the environment and they would be systematically reviewed in advance, and appropriate
measures would be taken to fully disclose potentially negative environmental impacts.

    For subprojects identified under ASPOP, ASPOP safeguard documents would apply: an Environmental
    Analysis had been also prepared which included as well a Pest Management Plan, a Resettlement
    Policy Framework and a Dam Safety Analysis. All of them have been prepared by consultants on a
    participatory manner with strong consultations with representatives of NGOs, technical services of
    ministries, producer organizations, and have been disclosed in November 2002.


10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

      Task Manager
      Valerie Marie Helene Layrol
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone:
      Fax:

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:     (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

