Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 25251
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27800; TF-22291; TF-22292)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.5 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPIJBLIC OF
PAKISTAN
FOR A
BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURE PROJECT
12/20/2002
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1995)
Currency Unit = Pak Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 = Rs 30.80
At completion (June 30, 2002):
US$ 1.00 = Rs 60.04
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEU                       Agricultural Extension Unit
BID                        Balochistan Irrigation Department
BIDA                       Balochistan Irrigation Developmant Authority
BMIADP                     Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project
CAD                        Command Area Development
CUD                        Community Development Unit
CID                        Community Irrigation Division
CIF                        Community Irrigation Farmer Organization
CIST                       Community Irrigation Service Unit
CSG                        Community Support Group
cusec                      Cubic feet per second: 1 cusec = 0.028 cubic meters/second
DOA                        Department of Agriculture
ESU                        Extension Support Unit
FIS                        Flood Irrigation Scheme
FO                         Farmer Organization
GoBal                      Govemment of Balochistan
ha                         hectare: 1 ha = 2.47 acres
HIES                       Household Income and Expenditure Surveys
MIS                        Management Information System
M&E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MMU                        Maintenance Management Unit
MTR                        Mid Term Review
NDP                        National Drainage Program
OD/OP/BP                   Operational Directive, Operational Policy or Business Policy
O&M                        Operation and Maintenance
PC-1                       Planning Commission Proforma Number 1 (Project Document)
PD                         Project Director
W&DU                       Women and Development Unit
PIS                        Perennial irrigation Scheme
PMU                        Project Management Unit
PWS                        Potable Water Supply
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
sm                         Staff Months
TA                         Technical Assistance
UoB                        University of Balochistan
VDA                        Village Development Agent
WMU                        Water Management Unit
WUA                        Water Users' Association



Glossary
bund                      an earthen embankment
jirga                      community level conflict resolution mechanism
karez                     an underground channel for water to flow from an aquifer within
mountains to open fields
kharif                    summer season for agricultural crops
rabi                      winter season for agricultural crops
Urdu, Pushto, Brahvi and  local languages
Sindhi
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:  John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:  Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Rashed ul Qayyum






PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6. Sustainability                                                                  14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 17
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              42
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                              43






Project ID: P010482                                        Project Name: BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY
IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Team Leader: Rashed Ul Qayyum                              TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        |Report Date: December 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION                LIC/TFNutmber: IDA-27800; TF-22291;
AND AGRICULTURE PROJECT                                       TF-22292
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                              Region: South Asia Regional
*                                                                     Office
Sector/subsector: Irrigation & drainage (38%); Sub-national
government administration (22%); Water supply
(20%); Flood protection (20%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.    10/29/1993                             Effective: 02/20/1996         03/28/1996
Appraisal:  04/27/1994                                 MTR: 09/30/1997            05/07/1998
Approval:  09/26/1995                               Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN/BALOCHISTAN IRRIGATION
DEPARTMENT (BID); ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN/GOVT OF
BALOCHISTAN
Other Partners: GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                               Paul Isenman
Sector Manager        Constance A. Bemard                       Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:   Rashed ul Qayyum                          Michael Saddington
ICR Primary Author:   Rashed Ul Qayyum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The project's overall objective was to increase the scope and productivity of Balochistan's minor
inigation sub-sector and increase farmers' incomes. The specific objectives were: (i) redefine
government's role in minor irrigation development and provide assistance to facilitate change; (ii)
develop sustainable Farmer Organizations (FOs) which, amongst other things, can efficiently operate
and maintain minor irrigation systems; (iii) develop self-sustaining irrigation systems, and increase FO
participabon in their planning and construction; (iv) increase beneficiaries' incomes and alleviate poverty;
and (v) increase the recovery of public expenditures on irrigation infrastructure from beneficiaries.
3.1.2 The objqctives were clear and had no ambiguity as they were similar to the project's precursor -
the Balochistan Minor Irrigation and Agricultural Development Project (BMIADP). They were realistic
and achievable, given the BMIADP experience. The specific objectives were not complex, except that
the institutional reform of the Balochistan Irrigation Department (BlD)Ystarted late and was to be
implemented under the framework of NDP (National Drainage Project). The number of components was
small and manageable, the implementing agency, BID, possessed much of the needed experience, and
inter-agency coordination required was minimal because the only other Department involved is the
Department of Agriculture (DOA). The organizational structure of the implementing agency, duly
strengthened through technical assistance, was capable of handling the geographic spread, design
engineering and supervision aspects, and remained conducive to developing FOs during the
implementation period. The objectives were also consistent with the provisions of the Bank's country
assistance strategy, the latest irrigation strategy, and the country's long-term development plans.
J/ BlD's refofn was not part of the odginal objective. Since GoBal pulled out of the NDP in 2001, progress on reforms has staUed.
3 2 Revised Objective:
At the Mid-Term Review (MTR), except for BID's institutional strengthening, project components were
found to be contributing to the development objective, which, therefore, was not revised. However, BID
had been slow to change its role from a constructor of irrigation schemes to a supplier of integrated
technical services to FOs while, at the same time, such services were actively promoted by the PMU.
Therefore mainstream reforms within BID were considered to be desirable. With the onset of NDP at
about the same bme, the institutional strengthening was seen not merely a project specific set of
activities but perceived in the context of an overall framework for BID's institutional reform.
Notwithstanding this, it must be noted that the NDP's reforms were for different purpose' and different
systems, not for the type of minor irrigation systems and their social and institutional contexts.
Y They primarily aimed at addressing the issues of large surface irrigation systems that are canal command based, and are fUly
operated and maintained by the Govemment
3.3 Original Components:
(1) Community development and support, for forming and developing FOs and providing engineering,
agricultural and other services to beneficiaries; ................................................. ($5.7 m)
(2) Irrigation infrastructure, for designing, constructing and/or rehabilitating some 30 minor irrigation
schemes, a pilot program of 4 flood irrigation schemes, and where possible associated potable water
supplies; ....................................................... ($20.0 m)
(3) Institutional strengthening, for strengthening BID's capabilities to interact with local communities
and assist in developing community planned and implemented minor irrigation, including eight mini
irrigations schemes as part of in-service training, and developing a pilot program to investigate how BID
might transfer O&M responsibilities to FOs of all minor irrigation schemes; ........ ($4.6 m) and
(4) Strengthening project management, for supporting a project management unit (PMU), inclusive of
a community support group within BID to implement the project and monitor and evaluate its
activities .......................................................    ($8.2 m).
3.4 Revised Components:
The project's institutional strengthening was the only component that was modified. Taking into account
-2 -



the time already lost, the component, as revised, confined to supplying training in technical matters and
participatory irrigation resource development to a selected group of BID engineers. The MTR
recommended that: (i) BID select engineers from all levels to participate in the training program; (ii) PMU
undertake a training needs assessment of the staff, and design the required technical and participatory
resource development training; and (iii) PMU implement the designed training programs, including study
tours to review successful community irrigation elsewhere, and a hands-on practical training in
implementing mini irrigation schemes, following PMU's procedures and criteria for developing perennial
irrigation schemes (PISs). The revision culminated in the establishment of a Community Irrigation
Service Unit (CISU), which was headed by a senior engineer and supported in the field by two executive
engineers at Loralai and Khuzdar Community Irrigation Divisions (CIDs), and two social organizers. The
Unit was charged with the responsibility of social mobilization, designing and implementing the mini
irrigation schemqs whose number was eventually reduced from eight to six. The CISU and CIDs'
capacity building was to be funded by the NDP. Actual and original component costs and their rating at
the end of the project is given below:
Component                 Actual Cost Original Cost    Rating
(Sm)        (S,m)       (this ICR)
1. Community development and support          6.8          5.7           S
2. Irrigation infrastructure                  19.5         20.0          S
3. Institutional strengthening                1.4          4.6           S
4. Strengthening project management           6.6          8.2           S
Total:               34.2         38.5          S
Note. Irrigation hifrastructure does not indude engineering administradon and supervision costs, which are part of project management
costs The hard costs', therefore, should be taken as $26.1m, and the 'soft costs' as $82 m. It amounts to spending 31 cents for
delivering every dollar of infrastructure that would yield opUmal benefits in terms inrcome and non-quantfiable soial benefits.
S = Satsfactory.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This is rated as satisfactory. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) does not indicate any performance
rating for quality at entry, nor does it specify any actions that would need to be taken in regard to meeting
the requirements of the Bank's safeguard policies. Nevertheless, the project design was adequate in that
its objectives were consistent with Govemment's development plans and Bank's country assistance
strategy for the minor irrigation sub-sector; procurement methods were suitable, and described in
sufficient detail in the SAR. Some of the risks were adequately foreseen, particularly on the
sustainability of FOs. The traditional leaders in some cases do not perceive their FOs in the right
context, or women groups are perceived to be a threat to their authority, or FO office bearers do not fully
understand their roles. The risks due to overarching institutional reforms not moving at desired pace
were foreseen and although no specific mitigation measures were suggested at MTR, emphasis was laid
on FO training, agricultural extension and WID programs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achlevement of objective:
4.1.1  Rated satisfactory. The overall objective of increasing the scope and productivity of
Balochistan's minor irrigation sub-sector and increasing farmers' incomes is likely to be achieved.
Farmers' incomes during the project period, which, according to an independent impact assessment
study, decreased in several instances due to persistent drought conditions, cannot be taken as an
indicator of the future potential. Despite the drought conditions, however, crop transect surveys
conducted by the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) unit indicate that, so far, the cropped area increased
by about 33% compared to the baseline, thanks largely to farmers substituting their normal cropping
pattem with low water requiring drought hardy crops; such as sorghum, pulses and rapeseed. Had cost
and access to other high efficiency irrigation systems (drip and sprinkler irrigation) in the context of
limited market availability, not been the main hurdles, the farmers would have been even more versatile
in their response to the drought situations. Specific objectives that were achieved include: (i)
Govemment's role was redefined by initiating transformation of BID from a constructor in the case of
minor irrigation to that of a provider of technical services, the case in point is the creation of CISU; (ii) 37
- 3-



FOs were formed, which were trained to take over the control and management of the perennial and
flood irrigation schemes; (iii) minor irrigation systems were made self-sustaining by making beneficiaries
share construction costs and them taking full responsibility of operations and maintenance (O&M); (iv)
beneficiaries' income will increase as the normal rainfall years return (Annex 3); and (v) recovery of
public expenditures has increased. As for an example, beneficiaries paid 100% of contribution due from
them for the preparation phase, 85% of the construction phase, and 6% of the production phase (as of
May 1, 2002, two month before the project closed) of the schemes constructed.
4.1.2  The project was included in the program of targeted interventions for poverty alleviation. As
required in OD 4.15 on Poverty Reduction, GoBal as well as Bank's review missions ensured that the
majority of beneficiaries were from among the poorest people. Scheme selection followed some very
rigorous screening criteria that included technical, economic and social criteria. The latter two sets of
criteria particularly focused on poverty, equity, social inclusion (gender, diversity of land tenure) and
community mobilization aspects. Rigor of the screening process can be gauged from this fact: from an
initial reconnaissance of 570 PIS, only 201 qualified for a second stage screening (65% were rejected),
while detailed screening reports were prepared for 38 schemes. Based on the implementation data, it is
evident that the project targeted extremely small landholders, with average irrigated holding size being
1.25 ha/shareholder family, or 0.92 ha/farm family when tenants are included. For the province, average
irrigated holding size, according to 1990 Agriculture Census, was 6.7 ha. In the 30 PISs, 2,321
landholder and 848 tenant families benefitted'. In the four flood irrigation schemes, 531 landholder and
5,222 tenant families would benefit from the project as they expect to increase their cropped area from
0.2 ha to 0.7 ha per farm family. The objective of poverty targeting, therefore, has been met. The entire
group of some 9,200 farm families were poorest of the poo; because 68% of these families were highly
vulnerable and marginal farmers whose livelihood partly depended on high risk, low productivity oriented
flood irrigation based farming systems.
^ Excluding 247 farm families that were targeted in the six mini-PISs with average inigated landholding of 1.5 halfamily.
Even the remaining 30% irrigated landholders are poorer of the lot when oompared with the provindal average irrigated lndholding
size. Annual baseline inoome per irigated farm in FY97 of these relatively abetter-off' families was Rs 29,562 (Annex 3), which is even
below the rural poverty line of Rs 39,043 as annual inoome per fardily (Source: FY97 HIES data. Rural poverty line family income derived
from Rs 581 per capia per month).
4.1.3 According to the Bank's OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, the project belongs to category
B and is thus supposed to have a beneficial effect on communities. Nevertheless, the project staff
identified potential environmental problems during the scheme design and screening processes,
following which schemes with detrimental effects, or where it was not feasible to incorporate mitigation
measures within the available social and financial parameters, were dropped. Where feasible,
appropriate measures were included in the scheme designs to mitigate effects. A few minor
environmental problems encountered were of the nature of channel banks protection near villages and
irrigated lands at down stream of the works. In the case of Gazg, Hitachi Kherzan, Sazoo, and Acher
Wand PISs, for instance, needed bank protections were provided. Furthermore, all new land that was
required for the channel lay out was voluntarily donated in a transparent manner by the communities.
Involuntary land acquisition was neither envisaged nor utilized by the project for construction of
infrastructure. Therefore OD 4.30 on Involunfary Resettlement was not triggered. In practice, the land
used for infrastructure is communal land, used for communal infrastructure and donated by the
community through consensus. For conflicts, the "jirga" helped in resolving disputes that arose during
the scheme implementation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs and evaluation of achievements by component are discussed below:
4.2.1  Community Development and Support ($6.8 m): Achievements rated satisfactory. The
purpose of this component, which was to form and develop FOs and provide engineering, agricultural
and other services to project beneficiaries, was achieved. PMU staff screened all proposed schemes on
the basis of a set of social, technical and economic criteria and finally selected 34 schemes (30 PISs and
4 FISs) in consultation with communities. Thirty seven FOsu, representing all land and water
shareholders, were established to cover the 34 schemes. Three schemes had two FOs each thus
making the FOs number as 37 for 34 schemes. Tenants were included in the FO formation process and
-4 -



were also the recipients of agricultural technology information and other social services. Their
membership, however, was limited to the general body of the FO because of their non-shareholding
status in cost contributions. To ensure FO members' participation and involvement in project activities,
including raising of contributions and sharing construction costs, and enabling them to ultimately take
over the 0&M responsibility of schemes, they were trained in conducting general body meetings,
recording of minutes, cash mobilization techniques, and book keeping.
I/ Six FOs raised by the CID staff for mini-PISs are not counted here.
4.2.1.1 Cost sharing. Communities contributed their share of financing, which, on an average, was
13% of the actual construction cost (equivalent to 19% of cost estimated at appraisal), in scheme
development and maintenance5. For the preparation phase, contributions were 100% of the due amount.
For the constructon phase, they were about 85%, and for the production phase about 6% at the time of
project closing. Contribution to the production phase is low because majority of the schemes (about
60%) were completed in the final year of project implementation and, therefore, did not require
maintenance immediately. Furthermore, maintenance and development fund generation is a continuous
process and is anticipated to be sustained as further benefits accrue to the farmers as a result of cropped
area and productivity increases.
1/ MFA, the maintenance fund acoount, was calculated at 1 % of the estimated capilal cost at the screening stage. However, O&M costs
at the end of construction pedod were re-estimated by the Engineering Wing of the PMU specific to each scheme for 20 years, and it
induded 2% annual increase to protect against inflation
4.2.1.2 FO contracts. In addition to aforementioned construction cost sharing, the FOs were also
allowed to carry out 20% of the works that were simpler to execute and usually labor intensive. These
were known as FO contracts. The idea was to help beneficiaries, who were very poor, further jack up
their share in the construction cost. These works helped communities to indirectly contribute another
4-5% to the construction cost. However, this procedure5 helped in some but not in other cases where the
main contractors may have maneuvered to under-quote the rates for similar works. The mechanism of
FO contract administration, therefore, needs to be refined for the future if it is to be seen as an effective
tool for sustained community participation.
1/ Direct contracting of FOs for simple works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract upto a total aggregate of US$1.8 million
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. was provided for in the Project Agreement However, contracts for small and simple works
(20% of the value of works under the main contract) were awarded to the FOs at unit rates which were 25% less than the rates of the
main contract awarded through nationaly compettive bidding (NCB) procedures Through this arrangement, FOs would effectively
contribute 5% of the construction cost towards the Project
4.2.1.3 FOs' multiple chores and sustainability. FOs need to have continuous interaction within
communities to remain self-sustaining organizations. The sustainability of FOs was assessed by the
project staff using three types of criteria: (i) FO as representative body; (ii) FO performance in the
implementation of FO contract; and (iii) FO performance in command area development. The
assessment indicated that about two-third of FOs were likely to sustain for 2-3 years in the post-project
period while the remaining one-third did not appear to be sustainable. The following findings of the
impact assessment study carried out by an external agency (University of Balochistan) also strengthen
this hypothesis that a majority of the FOs have a good chance to sustain their activities: (i) in almost 90%
cases of conflict resolution, decisions are made with consensus and the rest through majority principle or
through the intervention of FO leaders; (ii) accounts, more importantly the O&M accounts, have been
maintained in 100% cases; (iii) about 67% respondents said that they were involved in the complete
cycle of development process; and (iv) in all schemes, farmers had received appropriate training and
were confident of repairing and maintaining the constructed infrastructure themselves. However, in order
for the FOs to be sustainable, an institutional mechanism would have to be in place (a proposal is under
consideration by GoBal) to support them for a minimum 3-4 years in the post-project period.
4.2.1.4 Legal status of FOs. To give a legal cover to the newly formed FOs, they were initially
registered under the Balochistan Water User Association (WUA) Ordinance of 1981. Later, however, as
envisaged, new comprehensive Community Irrigation Farmer Organization (CIFO) Regulations were
framed and notified under the Balochistan Irrigation Development Authority (BIDA) Act of 1997. All FOs
previously registered under the WUA Ordinance 1981 were de-registered and were registered anew
under CIFO regulations (the Registrar had issued 19 certificates by June 30, 2002 while papers were
-5 -



under process for the remaining FOs). In order to gain a formal legal status, it was important for FOs to
be registered. However, unless the needed support under CIFO regulabons, which presently is lacking
but is likely to be forthcoming (see Section 9, Partner Comments), is provided beyond project closing,
they would become less formal organizabons.
4.2.1.5 Women groups. Recognizing that women are often neglected in the development process
because the social milieu of the tribal societies restricts their participation, the project, in the initial
process of FOs formation, focused on soliciting commitment from male members to support
implementation of women development activities. Also recognizing that translating commitment into
actions that permit women to openly participate as partners of development is a long term process, the
project succeeded in facilitating the change process. Extensive training and follow-up by the project staff
ensured that this commitment was made by the communities concemed. Skill development trainings
have had a significant impact on the participation levels and welfare of women, particularly in the context
of improved health, hygiene standards, and kitchen gardening. This was made possible through a
combination of trainings and provision of potable water supply systems in twelve schemes. In addition to
this, contrary to the impression gained by a partner organization (see Section 9b), women's training
covered a wide array of subjects, such as vegetable production, grain storage, pesticide storage, and
O&M of potable water supply systems. Findings of the impact assessment study indicate that 85% of
respondents (140 randomly selected in 6 of the 30 PISs) believed that the work load of women had
reduced as a result of potable water supply and that water related diseases and malaria incidence had
slightly decreased. Limitations of the study in terms of its scope, time and lack of baseline data did not
permit quantification of these attributes.
4.2.1.6 Agricultural extension. The project successfully introduced, and persuaded farmers to adopt,
improved varieties of major crops. Need-based seasonal annual plans, customized for individual
schemes, were prepared and implemented through skill demonstrations and training to 3,315 farmers,
demonstration plots and small plot adoption trials (178), technical talks and discussions (3,989), mass
awareness campaigns on safe use of agricultural chemicals in all schemes, awareness and skill transfer
for orchard establishment in potential orchard area schemes, and on-farm observabon trials (34).
Recognizing the need to disseminate technical knowledge effectively and efficiently, the project
produced extension materials in Urdu, Pashto, Balochi, Brahvi and Sindhi languages for distribution
among farmers. There was no FO without a literate person or two, and these materials were sought after
by the volunteer extension agents. Village Development Agents (VDAs) of all FOs were identified,
promoted and trained to assist their communities in adopting better agricultural practices. Findings of the
impact assessment study also reveal that agricultural extension did create an impact in that: (i) the
improved recommended seed for major crops was being used by 30% farmers; (ii) the enhanced
knowledge and ability to identify main pests and diseases was acknowledged by 43% farmers; (iii) about
30%-40% orchard owners adopted recommended practices of spacing and pit sizing, pruning, and
marketing; and (iv) about 54% farmers spent their additional income on upgrading living standards, 33%
on agricultural implements, and 13% on increasing farm area.
4.2.2 Irrigation infrastructure ($19.5 in): Achievement of this component is' satisfactory. Under this
component, design, construction, and/or rehabilitation was carried out for 30 minor and 6 mini perennial
irrigation schemes (mini PISs are dealt with here to group infrastructure together, although in the SAR
they formed part of the institutional strengthening component), 4 pilot FISs, 12 potable water supply
(PWS) schemes associated with the main schemes where feasible, and CAD works. All these activities
had a strong support from the community development group of the project, which ensured user
participation in all stages of infrastructure development. The six mini schemes, with discharge of less
than 1 cusec, were implemented by CISU to allow BID engineers to get hands-on experience for
handling such works in the future. The performance indicators, such as increases in water flows and
cropped areas, were retrofitted because they depended on the portfolio of selected schemes. The
cumulative impact of all PISs, after the finalization of screening studies and structure designs, projected
an overall increase in water discharge from 136 cusecs to about 190 cusecs at source, and a total
increase in the area under cultivation from 4,089 ha to about 6,478 ha at full development (ten years
later, on average) as the irrigation efficiency would increase after the conveyance channels are lined and
CAD works are progressively carried out by the farmers. The FISs would increase the cultivation area
-6 -



from 1,231 ha to 4,015 ha, of which, during an average flood year, two-third area will receive two
irrigations in kharif season and the remaining one-third only one irrigation. The outputs and special
comments on performance/impact of each sub-component are mentioned below.
4.2.2.1 Perennial Irrigation: Minor (30) and mini (6) schemes. Key considerations in selecting
these schemes included: minimum water discharge of 1 cusec for PISs and less for mini schemes,
willingness of beneficiaries to form FOs and contribute to capital and O& M costs, social criteria such as
equitable distribution of benefits and homogeneity of beneficiaries, consultation with farmers during
development and designing of schemes, farmers' willingness to assume responsibility of O&M after
scheme completion, and economic viability. A reconnaissance study was carried out for over 500 PISs
and 63 FISs in 20 districts. As against what was envisaged at appraisal, the selected schemes could not
be clustered within a fewer districts because of the selection criteria. Consequently, they were located in
13 districts. The scheme works included headwork, main and secondary channelse. The headwork or
water diversion structures included weirs, infiltration galleries, karezes, and free intakes while in one
case, Chutta PIS, part of the command used low-lift pumps. Besides improving irrigation supplies, the
schemes would improve water reliability for those weirs where, in the past, floods had damaged the
make-shift diversion arrangements that invariably resulted in disruption of irrigation and reduced crop
yields. The contractors completed their contracts albeit with some delays. Extensive and prolonged
reconnaissance and screening, detailed design and scheme preparation, taking longer than envisaged in
SAR, gave a delayed start to the project, thus pushing the construction peak to years 4 to 6 instead of 3
to 4. As a consequence, about two-third of the schemes were completed in the final year.
1/M inor Irrigation schemes are units from headwork to farm ditches and FOs are responsible for the routine maintenance of the whole as
a unit. In afl but two cases Fo represent one command area. In the two multiple FO cases, branch channels served their respective
command areas on which an FO was raised. There were no outlier commands on any scheme to reap benefits of the main works without
having contributed towards the cost
4.2.2.2 Flood irrigation: Pilot schemes (4). About one million ha, or 65% of the total irrigated area in
Balochistan, is flood irrigated (including water harvesting). Flood water, therefore, is an important
resource that needs to be developed. The project had provided for a pilot program of four schemes using
traditional design, which was laid out in the SAR, and was to consist of a short weir with an earthen bund
across the remainder of the channel. The weir would allow a medium flood, having a probability of two to
three years, to pass over it safely. Larger floods, however, would breach the bund allowing the
floodwater to bypass the weir and leave it intact. Three schemes were designed on these guidelines,
while the fourth (Toiwar) was an unusual site. Earthen bunds of two schemes failed during first year of
operation. Their performance is discussed in para 4.2.2.6 below.
4.2.2.3 Potable water supply (PWS). Twelve PWS schemes were identified during the screening
process and the works were carried out as part of the main contracts. As the incremental costs were
negligible as compared to huge social retums in terms of health (safe drinking water, better hygiene),
gender participation (rallying point for women), and positive influence on environmental aspects
(effective check on water pollution, and reduction of mosquito breeding grounds), there was a popular
demand to include PWS in all schemes where potential existed for household water supplies. These
schemes offered a good opportunity for the project staff to have an effective entry point to form women
groups and receive a welcome response not only from the women (direct target group) but also from
their male counterparts.
4.2.2.4 Command area development (CAD) works. CAD works consisted of improving secondary and
tertiary channels that served the farms, and construction of division structures and farm off-takes. In the
SAR, it was suggested that the point where the marginal cost of channel lining equaled marginal revenue
would be the start of the CAD work. This guideline was found to be irrelevant to the existing situation as
no water charges are applied to the minor irrigation schemes in Balochistan. These were to be financed
and constructed by FOs during the aftercare period of two years originally provided, following the
completion of main schemes' construction. However the aftercare period was drastically squeezed as
most of the schemes were completed in the final year of project implementation (para 4.2.2.1), which
somewhat adversely affected the implementation of CAD works. With best efforts, only 19
demonstrations and 14 replications could be constructed on 18 of the 30 PlSs. Farmers contributed
about one-third of the cost incurred. The works carred out included improving of 67,000 ft length of
channels (22,000 ft lined and 45,000 ft earthen), construction of 160 off-takes and 32 associated
-7 -



structures, and leveling of 26 ha of land. These works would serve about 810 ha of farmland. In
addition, the reduced aftercare period of one year has impinged on the sustainability of many fledgling
FOs, despite the need to provide adequate aftercare (typically 7-8 years from identification to final
tumover) that was recognized in the Performnance Audit Report for BMIADP (Operations Evaluation
Department, 1995).
4.2.2.5 Engineering Design, Scheme Planning, Performance and impact. The project has followed
good design guides and standards of its forerunner that has resulted in the construction of durable
infrastructure, which FOs would be able to operate and maintain at their own costs that would mostly be
small, except for unusual events (huge floods or high intensity tremors, for instance). The early
performance and impact of the four components, including constraints in planning and exceptions in the
case of two PiSs and two FISs, in terms of questions that could be raised on costs or performance, are
discussed below:
(i) Planning constraints. The five PiSs, all weirs made in succession in Karkh Valley in a
reach of 5 miles for diverting a total 25 cusecs, were an exceptional case, which may appear an
overdoing on diversion works. Design practicality demanded that historical water rights and traditions
were respected, for which there was tribal insistence to have independent diversion source at their given
location. Historical rights allowed diversion of surface flow at a point without disturbing the sub-surface
flow. Since social change takes much longer than the narrow time frame of one or two projects, scheme
development had to realistically address the specific local conditions. Therefore it was logical to have an
optimal compromise in favor of weirs. This, however, led to increased cost of infrastructure in Karkh
Valley due to river works at multiple sites, as diversion works comprised more than 70% of total cost on
these schemes.
(ii) Performance of PiSs. Most schemes faced continued drought since 1998-99 (the drought
started in 1997-98), and were unable to deliver designed discharges. Since the potential benefits were
predicted during a 'wet cycle', the impact on the availability of water during a normal year would be told
by experience. The situaton in 2002 was that six schemes were dry, thus ceasing to grow crops, and
others were carrying less water than the designed discharge, except Pandaran PIS with discharge 155%
above design, and Gazg PIS exceeding design by about 50% (observed during ICR mission but not
monitored), averaging about 64% in the rabi season of 2001-02. Preliminary assessment by transect
crop surveys suggested that the cropped area had increased to 133% by 2002, despite drought. The
cropped area showed significant increases in low water requiring crops such as sorghum, pulses and
oilseeds - a befitting response by farmers to the prevailing drought. Reliability, savings in operation
losses and reduction in conveyance time have made considerable contribution towards this cropped area
expansion. Review of schemes by the ICR mission showed that two schemes (Kumbri PIS and Khadri
PIS), as an exceptional group, were unlikely to recover to design discharge even when seasons return to
normalcy. Both have shown high sub-surface flow passing under the structure. Kumbri PIS has been
converted from a free flow to interceptor type scheme, with off-take lowered. Khadri PIS delivers a small
portion of surface flow to off-take channel at present (June 2002), while the remaining disappears in the
riverbed. In this case, the farmers have reverted to using old method of tapping surface flow about 600 ft
above the weir and carry to off-take in a channel. Both are unlikely to heal fully and some remedial
works would need to be attempted later. This specific case, however, is in no way to construe that
overall quality of design and construction works is doubtful. It only provides a disclaimer that some PISs
may not perform to supply the projected amount of water, which may have been a function of planning
constraints or limitations of stream-bed investigation part, as has been observed here. The possibility
that some others may show similar performance after the drought is over cannot be ruled out, but at the
same time it should also be noted that in cases like Pandaran and Gazg PISs, the actual yield was more
than the design discharge.
(iii) Performance of FiSs. Three FISs were designed on flood return period of 2 years for
designing the erodible bund. The fourth, Toiwer FIS, is fully on rock foundation in a narrow gorge but
without an erodible bund, thus making it an exceptional site. Two schemes, namely Marufzai and
Chandia, whose earthen breaching bunds gave way during first year of operation and caused deep
erosion could not be reconstructed by farmers. The original cost of these two FISs was about Rs 28 m
- 8-



and Rs 31 m respectvely. These schemes were made operational by constructing gabion spillways with
skin protection of three to four inches thin concrete in place of erodible bunds at the additional cost of Rs
6 m and Rs 11 m respectively. The initial design of breaching of bunds beyond the farmers capacity to
repair does raise a question about the technological choices available, but it is important to note that the
FISs were pilots and were made according to the design guide for the return period 2 to 3 years. The
third schemes, Barag FIS, has special site conditions, that is, it has two natural flood channels, which
largely take up the flood volume and reduce intensity on the erodible bund. Low-life is inherent to the
design of gabion spillway structures used, and for an extended service, Umely maintenance would be
important. Therefore it is imperative to review the design criteria and economic evaluation of FISs in the
future. The performance of the FISs, therefore, may be seen in a context that includes all possible
benefit areas, such as recharge to the ground water within the FISs' zone of influence, or higher cattle
productivity of the beneficiaries, or other social benefits that could be quantified.
(iv) Performance of PWS schemes. Preliminary performance/impact evaluation has shown
that, among other things, personal hygiene of women and children and cleanliness of the household
have improved as the use of clean water has increased. It has also allowed women spare time for other
productive activities and recreation because they now do not need to bring water by buckets from
considerable distances (85% women reported fall in workload, a key findings of the impact assessment).
The small investment in this sub-component is already showing a salutary change in the quality of life in
the scheme areas.
(v) Performance of CAD works. CAD works are low cost but high value works. Measurement
of seepage and operation losses made before improvement of channels was about 40% of the discharge
at the head. While post construction measurements were not available, based on the experience on the
improvement of watercourses elsewhere in the province, the CAD works are estimated to save about half
of these losses. In addition, these have resulted in saving, on an average, 75% of the conveyance time
measured between head and tail of the channels where demonstration CAD works were done. Total cost
of the works is Rs 4,450 per ha, or about Rs 300,000 for one cusec of water saved. Compare this with
the development costs due to main works, which comes to Rs 133,400 per ha, or Rs 16 m per additional
cusec of water. Free demonstrations of CAD works, however, were considered counter productive in
many schemes (see Borrowers evaluation report, Annex 8) as they resulted in other community
members' demanding similar free help.
4.2.3 Institutional Strengthening ($1.5 m): Overall achievement of this component is satisfactory.
However, there are two aspects that need to be considered for this rating: one, that impacts the irrigation
sector of Balochistan; and the other, that have positively influenced the minor irrigation sub-sector. In
the context of first aspect, it can be argued that this project-specific component had a limited role, the
component was a late starter, and subjected to modification, for various reasons. The advent of NDP in
December 1996 set into motion a country-wide process of institutional changes in the Provincial Irrigation
Departments. The project authorities therefore decided to postpone the implementation of this
component until those changes had taken place. Unfortunately, BIDA, under the auspices of NDP, could
not be established until about the MTR of this project (May 1998). The MTR, under the given uncertain
conditions, decided that the project's institutional strengthening component should be modified to only
supplying training in technical matters and participatory irrigation management to a selected group of
BID engineers. Soon thereafter, however, IDA and GoBal recognized that the institutional changes in the
irrigation sector in Balochistan should be conceived in the context of the over-arching framework
developed under the NDP and that the proposed changes under BCIAP must conform to the emerging
institutional changes under BIDA.
4.2.3.1 However, in the context of minor irrigation sub-sector, it may well be argued that this project
had little linkage with the reform program proposed under the NDP, and project's performance should not
be evaluated in the context of incomplete sectoral reforms in Balochistan under the NDP. The reforms
proposed under NDP were for different purpose and for different type of systems. They were not meant
for the type of systems and social as well as institutional contexts that prevail in the case of minor
irrigation, as they were aimed at addressing the issues of large surface irrigation systems (canal
command based) wholly operated and maintained by the Govemment. The idea was to enhance users
-9-



participation in these large irrigation systems by bringing their role in irrigation management from the
watercourse level to the distributary level (secondary level of water distribution canals) and decentralize
management by developing public utilities at the canal command level and autonomous authorities at
the province level. This has little relevance for the minor irrigation schemes which are already managed
by the local people, more like watercourses in canal irrigated areas. The project was to support the
development of these schemes because the local communities do not have technical capacity to design
such schemes. The schemes included under BCIAP were identified by the local people themselves, they
shared significant amount of capital costs (about one fifth of civil works costs), and assumed full O&M
responsibility. Such high stakes indicate their degree of ownership of minor irrigation schemes.
SI Partner commrents also raise this point directly or in an Implied manner, that institutional reform of BID shodd not be a limiting factor to
component rabng. However, the component was rated unsatisfactory in the last project status report of the Bank prior to projeds dosing.
4.2.3.2 BecauseX of the modified approach to implementing the institubonal development component at
the MTR, a number performance of indicators support a satfsfactory outcome. An intensive training
was imparted to BIDA engineers followed by hands-on training for the preparation and implementabon of
mini-irrigabon schemes. They are now part of the BID system, where change process in favor of
community participation, at least in the minor irrigation sub-sector, has set in. In October 1999, CISU,
together with two pilot Community Irrigaton Divisions (CIDs) at Khuzdar and Loralai, came into
existence, which was designed to transform the role of BID from a constructor of irrigation infrastructure
to a supplier of technical services to FOs. CISU had a limited scope, but was well thought out with
appropriate quality assurance procedures, vision and staff resources to provide services to FOs. It was
envisaged that the overall sectoral reform process would lead to the expansion of CISU for transforming
the minor irrigation sector. The CISU had successfully initiated work on six mini schemes when GoBal
decided to pull out of the NDP. Therefore, CISU adequately functioned for a short while, yet it managed
to complete the mini-schemes. At the close of the project, although CISU was a less effectve entity than
what it was under the combined PMU support, yet it is an important milestone in institutional
development. It houses the "Registrat' of the FOs, it supervises the CIDs, and is being seen as a
nucleus for starting other CIDs, when needed. The Registrars office must therefore be seen as a
mechanism for the post-project period to provide technical and institutional support to the fledgeling FOs.
BID prepared a three-year scheme to support CISU that would ensure aftercare of project achievements.
This request is under consideration by the govemment.
4.2.4  Strengthening Project Management ($6.8 m): Overall achievement of this component is
satisfactory. The project management achieved almost all tasks assigned to it. It managed to construct
good-quality irrigation infrastructure as envisaged (PISs, FISs and mini schemes) and established the
required number of FOs. A majority of FOs has the potential to sustain provided the necessary follow-up
training and aftercare support services are provided for some time to come.
4.2.4.1 The strengthening of project management was realized in a different form than envisaged in the
SAR. The Community Support Group (CSG), working directly under the Project Director (PD), was to
have two sections: (i) field service offices at Zhob, Loralai, Sibi and Khuzdar and (ii) field service support
staff at headquarters. The field offices were not established due to operational difficulties, namely, (i)
wider geographic spread of schemes; (ii) staff resources would have spread too thinly; (iii) problems of
staff coordination and training of the community support group that was on a steep leaming curve; and
(iv) logistics problems caused by delayed procurement of vehicles by about 18 months as bids had to be
re-invited due to non-responsiveness of bidders in the original round. Instead, five units?, each headed
by a team leader, were established with headquarters at Quetta.
/ These unts were: fi) Water Management Unit (WMU), (ii) Women in Development Unit (W&DU), fiii) Extension Suppod Unit (ESU).
(iv) Maintenancoe Management Unit (MMU), and (v) Community Development Unit (CDU). All were staffed with direcdly hired
professionals and verked under the guidance of the TA Team.
4.2.4.2 The Administration Group was to have two sections: (i) Accounts and Audit; and (ii) Management
Information System (MIS). While the former section was set up in the PMU, the latter was not
established because the TA Team's MIS set-up was adequate to meet the project requirements and was
jointly used by the TA-PMU team members. The MIS worked effectively as it collected, processed and
disseminated information for the M&E Unit (reconnaissance and screening reports data, scheme profiles,
crop transect surveys, statistics on vehicle use, etc.), Accounts Unit (project expenditure, cash flows,
budget variance, etc.) and Management Unit (reporting and quality assurance aspects). The Engineering
- 10 -



Group, headed by a Superintending Engineer, was also to have two sections: (i) Construction,
Supervision and Coordination, and (ii) Planning and Design. The first section was established with four
area engineers (executive engineer level), site engineers (from amongst TA team) and ancillary staff.
The second section was not established as the planning and design work was carried out by the TA
Team's designing engineers.
4.2.4.3 There were three types of staff: (i) seconded from BID and responsible to the PD, (ii) directly
hired and seconded from DOA, and responsible to the TA team, and (iii) TA team consisting of
intemationally and locally recruited experts, and responsible to the PD. After the project closed,
seconded staff went back to BID and DOA respectively, and services of directly hired staff were
terminated. The TA team members performed their functions for the contracted time. The operations of
all 34 minor and the 6 mini irrigation schemes were handed over to FOs as the project closed. At the
same time, the BID executive engineers in whose jurisdiction the schemes fell were made responsible
for providing technical support to FOs.
4.2.4.4 There was a feeling among the general BID staff that since they were not involved in project
activities, they may not be fully motivated for the after-care work once they are transferred to the scheme
areas. To mitigate such concems, the mainstream BID engineers were provided classroom and
hands-on training by the project. While it can be argued that sustainability could have been better
ensured had the project been implemented through the existing BID set up, it is also true that TA team's
management style and quality assurance procedures were less bureaucratic than those of the
govemment, which allowed staff performance to attain satisfactory levels. It merits to be recognized.
4.2.5 Technical assistance (TA): The TA contributed significantly to achieving the project objective.
It performed well despite difficult ground conditions in terms of logistics, security and tribal settings. The
TA was contracted out to a consortium of firms (2 international and 3 national), early in the project
implementation at the time of Credit effectiveness, and it provided expertise in three main areas: (i)
engineering, comprising design, survey, hydrology, soil science, and site supervision; (ii) community
support services, comprising expertise in social sciences, economics, land and water management,
gender issues, and institutional development; and (iii) management information that focused on
monitoring and evaluation, project management, quality assurance, and administrative support. The TA
team consisted of about 10% intemational and 90% national personnel, and cumulatively worked for
over 1,860 person months. They worked hand in hand with a four-fold project staff that were hired
directly from the local market or seconded from the govemment line departments.
4.2.5.1 Apart from TA team's approach to emphasize quality assurance in all facets of the engineering
component (detailed designs, tendering and contract award, and construction supervision), its major
concem has been to make the community support program a success. The challenge was to reorganize
the CSG within the PMU to meet scheme development needs for each of the three development phases
(preparation, construction and aftercare), secure directly hired staff (recruit, train and manage), and
develop a 'blue print" early on for the logical development of FOs. The challenge was successfully met.
CISU was groomed to provide FOs with technical, social and agricultural services through intensive
training. Despite the initial delays in securing offices or procuring vehicles, the TA team persevered in
maintaining it CSG staff on a steep leaming curve. Generally all stakeholders recognized the TA team's
ability to assist the project management effectively. A sound MIS system, including log-frame planning,
reporting, and adherence to a quality control, and rabi and kharif transect surveys was put into place.
The system generated a large number of scheme-specific impact monitoring reports (Annex 7) that
would serve well in the future for scheme management.
4.2.6 Tralning: The main thrust of training has been on community development through a variety of
training programs. All Units of the TA team and the government's project staff joined hands in this
massive effort that helped in organizing 37 FOs and keeping the community members, both male and
female, both landholders and tenants, interested in making their schemes a success. The wide spectrum
of training imparted by the various Units, to the tune of 8,788 person months", included: CDU trained
community members in the role of FOs, FO management skills and resource mobilization; AEU trained
farmers on all major agronomic aspects such as crop and orchard raising, judicious use of
- 1 1 -



agro-chemicals and integrated pest management, and promoted village development agents as well;
WMU trained farmers in land and on-farm water management techniques; MMU trained scheme
maintainers in minor repair and construction skills; and W&DU trained women in health, hygiene and
safe water usage, malaria awareness and control, vegetable production, grain storage, pesticide storage,
and O&M of potable water supply systems. Another set of training was given to BID/BIDA engineers in
integrated community irrigation services for 300 staff months. Through this module, three batches of 50
staff each were trained for a period of two months, employing hands-on approach.
a/ CDU trained farmers for a cumulative peolod of 6,700 person months; AEU trained, on average, 15 farmers from each scheme,
cumulatively for 1 ,100 person months; WMUJ trained 50 farmers for 500 person months; MMU trained 100 FO-nominated scheme
maintainers for a cumulatvely for 163 person months; and W&DU trained over 3,300 women for about 325 person months.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  At appraisal, the overall economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 14% for the investment
cost of 30 minor PISs. No attempt was made to estimate the mini or flood irrigation schemes because of
their pilot nature. The project design comprised a combination of schemes at high (above 1980 m),
middle (1000 to 1980 m) and low altitudes (below 1000 m). ERRs for low and mid altitude schemes were
estimated at 15% each, under the area expansion scenario. Under the constant area scenario, ERR was
6% for low altitude and 12% for mid altitude schemes. High altitude schemes had an overall ERR of
11%, reflecting only the expansion area scenario because no separate estmate was made under the
constant area scenano.
4.3.2 At completion, the re-estimated ERR comes to 14.7% for the investment cost of 24 minor PiSs,
excluding the six extreme-drought affected schemes ranging from totally dry acreage to 60% decline in
crops at the tme of this report. The ERR reduces to 13.2%, if investments for the six drought-affected
PISs are included in the costs stream, without taking their normal benefits in the current drought phase
but anticipating benefits delayed by 5 years. The ERR reduces to 11.4% when all the costs are added,
including the investment costs of 30 PISs, four FISs, and six mini schemes. However, this last scenario
is of academic interest because the FlSs/mini schemes were pilot learning interventions. Altitude
category wise ERRs are given in Annex 3, para 18.
4.3.3  Despite a severe drought, why then the ERR at completon is higher than that calculated at
appraisal? The following reasons can be attributed for this outcome:
(a) over all cropped area increased by 33% of the baseline. This increase is more pronounced (54%)
when six severely drought affected schemes are excluded form the comparison; and
(b) although overall rabi crop area declined by 5% of the baseline", overall kharif crops increased by
125% of the baseline, due to better drought response strategy adopted by the farmers by opting for
low water requiring and relatively drought hardy crops such as sorghum, pulses and oilseeds. The
orchard area, mostly confined to high and mid altitude, also increased by 14% of the baseline.
11 Note: This dedine was 24% in the case of mid afltude category where four of the six extrene drought schemes were located. The
crop monitoring data, used for the eoDnomic analysis, had also missing or unreported rabi crops area for three schemes in the mid
atitude category that were not significantiy affected by the drought (Munara Kalan, Gazg and Wahar). which when corrected to prevbius
years or at least to baseline levels, leads to an overal rabicropped area increase by 25% instead of a dedine.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
At appraisal, the overall financial rate of return (FRR) was estimated at 17%", in the area expansion
scenario, if the farmers were to share the enbre development cost of a scheme. However, since this was
not to be the case, FRRs were calculated with the assumption that farmers would share 15% to 30% of
the capital cost. These FRRs ranged from 35% in the mid altitude to 99% in the low altitude domain
schemes. Financial retums to the farmers worked out at the ICR stage, based on the actual data that
indicated area expansion in all cases and specified cost sharing, range from 34%-78% for the mid
altitude and 28%-80% for the low altitude schemes. In the high altitude domain, FRR at completion is
44%-76% as against the SAR estimation of 38%. For the overall project, the FRR at completion is
estimated at 43.5%. Further details, including scheme-wise FRRs, are given in Annex 3.
y/H was 11% for the constant area assurnption. However, all selected schemes envisaged area expansion even at their screening stage.
- 12 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest. The main thrust of the
project was to promote participatory approach to implementation. To that end, the communities needed
to be organized and consulted at various stages of project development, particularly, planning, designing
and implementation. Impact on institutions has to be viewed in this context, which can be at various
levels, for example, policy level, planning and designing level, or implementation level.
4.5.2 A major step taken at the policy level that has positively impacted the performance of the
project, is the extended legal framework for registering the FOs. As stated earlier, realizing the
shortcomings of She Water Users Association Ordinance, 1981, GoBal prepared CIFO Regulations,
which were comprehensive enough to cover all aspects of FOs' performance, including management and
finance, and notified them in April 2000 under the BIDA Act of 1997. After de-registering them from the
1981 Ordinance, all FOs established under the project are being registered under the CIFO Regulations.
Most were registered (86%) by the end of the project (Annex 1).
4.5.3 A concerted effort for institutional development at the grass roots level was made at the planning
and designing stage whose impact on communities has been visible during and after the construction
phases. For the selection of viable schemes, a rigorous process of screening was instituted. During the
process, a multi-disciplinary team consulted communities about their willingness to contribute to the
costs for which various funds were established. They were also sensitized about their duties and
responsibilities. Eventually, only those schemes were selected which met a set of technical, economic
and social criteria.
4.5.4  At the implementation level too, institutional impact of the project was notable at two broad tiers.
First, at the grass roots level, the communities were intimately involved in an organized manner in the
implementation of construction phase. They oversaw the construction, they executed FO contracts
themselves and keenly observed progress on the main contracts. They carried out the command area
development works, and also collected funds for eventual O&M of schemes. All these activities can be
seen as a first step toward institutionalizing scheme implementation and maintenance. Second, at the
government level, a set-up was promoted within BID in the form of CISU, which along with two field
offices, developed and implemented six mini irrigation schemes following the participatory model of main
schemes that involved communities in all phases of scheme development. The staff seconded from BID
interacted with the communities on the one hand and the multi-disciplinary TA team on the other, and
thus, received hands-on training in the participatory approach to implementing projects.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Drought had hit the project area for over 3 years. Since 1999, perennial water flows in Lelgat, Domandi,
and Kazha Kareze schemes had totally dried as their catchment areas did not receive any rain, so much
so that the population of Lelgat migrated to other places. Domandi scheme is located close to Afghan
border. Because of poor security situation in the area, staff members were unable to visit this scheme
for some time. A dispute between two tribes conceming the Mirjanzai and Marufzai schemes had
resulted in repeated exchange of gun fire. For this reason, extension staff were unable to visit these
schemes regularly. A project staff was kidnapped near Barkohi Essote scheme. Following this
occurrence, the staff did not visit the scheme for a limited time. In view of the prevalent religious
feelings, female staff members had not been able, for some time, to visit the FOs/schemes located in
areas close to Afghan border. Again, because of the border situation, expatriate TA team members had
to leave the country, though for a short time. These factors partially affected the outcome of the project
in the form of implementation delays.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Staff turnover, in particular the Project Directorsy, was rapid. Training imparted to staff members of two
CIDs was not fully made use of because a sizeable number was transferred within a year. Institutional
- 13 -



reforms under BIDA and NDP, aiming at transforming the character of BID (from constructor to services
provider), could not become effective because GoBal withdrew support to NDP at a belated stage in
March 2001. There was no provision for aftercare support in the SAR and the PC-1 which is crucial for
sustaining the FOs. However, a proposal for aftercare support is under consideration of the GoBal.
These factors partially affected the outcome of the project.
1/ Five persons, at dfferent Umes, manned the position in 6 years.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CID staff remained deficient in the maintenance management and water management disciplines
because the nominated staff from both CiDs could not be released from the BID in 2001. Furthermore,
training opporturities in the outside institutions, though limited, were not utilized due to processing
bottlenecks within the BID in identifying and utilizing such opportunities. On a positive note, the project
gainfully utilized the services of contractors, many of whom had previous experience of constructing
similar infrastructure under BMIADP. The project outcome was only slightly affected by delays in
processing withdrawal applications within the PMU during final stages of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 The total project expenditure was $ 34.2 m against the appraisal estimate of $ 38.5 m, thus
showing 11 % cost underrun. However, in Rupee terms, the cost overrun was about 30% (Rs 1,775 m
expenditure versus Rs 1,369 m cost estimate). This disparity is due to 100% devaluation of Rupee
versus US$ in six years, with a median devaluation of 40%. The ratio of actual financing, compared with
the appraisal estimates, remained unchanged for IDA (69%) and GON (14%), but slightly increased for
GoBal (from 10% to 14%) and decreased in the case of farmers (from 7% to 3%):
Project Finaning: Estimated versus Actual
Financibr    Appraisal Estimate        Actual Expendibtre _
USS       %      US$      %      PRs       %
IDA              26 7       69     23.1     67    1,2202     69
GoBal             3 8       10     4.8     14     241.7      14
GON               5 4       14     5.3     16     255.7      14
Farmers           2 6       7      1.0      3      57 4      3
Total            38.5     100      3.     S      1,775.0   100
C mponent- wise Cost Estimates and ExpenditurGs
Component                Appraisal Esgimate  T _   Actual Expenditure1'
US$ | % | Pak Rs.    %      US$ l  %        ePak.Rs.  %
Commundy Dev. Support     5.7   15    199.6    15 |   6.8 | 20    328.2    19
Irrigation Infrastructure  20.0  52   717.9    52    19.5   57    1,051.0  59
Institutional Strengthening  4.6  12  164 2    12     1.3    4     75.7    4
Strengthening Pioject Mgt  8.2  21    287.0   21      6.6   19    320 0    18
Total               38.5  Soo 0  ,368.J  100    34.2  100   S 774S   S00
" Actual as of June 30,2002. The figures differ from Borrower's evaluation report, which reports April 30,2002 data
5.4.2 The disbursements have been consistent, following the expenditures patterns although
processing of withdrawal applications considerably slowed down in the PMU during the last few months
before the project closed. It was due to many contracts being completed late and associated delays in
verifying contractors claims. Following the one year extension in the closing date, SDR 1 m were
cancelled from the Credit because this amount was not needed despite a 30% cost overrun in local
currency. The allocation of the Credit proceeds in the disbursement categories was adequate and
adjustments were made timely when partial cancellation of the Credit amount was effected. The Bank's
procurement and disbursement guidelines were generally followed. No serious deviations were observed
in these fiduciary areas. Final disbursement was 95% of the revised Credit amount and 85% of the
Dutch grant. As of December 16, 2002, SDR 16.6 m (US$ 22.1 m equivalent) were disbursed from the
revised Credit amount (SDR 17.5 m), in addition to $5.34 m from the Dutch grant of $6.3 m that was
utilized to meet the TA cost.
- 14 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The project has a number of quality achievements. Poverty targeting has been effective.
Valuable community assets have been created, be it physical infrastructure and their maintenance, or
beneficiary participation in all phases of development, or formation of human capital. On the basis of
these achievements, the sustainability is rated as likely. The rationale is as follows. The three main
gains from the project are, namely: irrigation infrastructure that would help enhance water supplies;
farner organizations,who would maintain the infrastructure and carry out CAD works; and the direction of
institutional change, that would transform the role of BID towards the management of minor irrigation in
partnership with local communities. The quality of these achievements, however, determines how
sustainable they,are. On the positive side, the infrastructure constructed is generally of durable quality
and is expected to live its design life and more. The project had introduced participatory approach in
developing and implementing the irrigation schemes. The project effectively mobilized the beneficiaries
into FOs and motivated them to pay a reasonable proportion (ranging from 18% to 35%) of the capital
cost. It has encouraged counseling, imparted trainings in various technical and social skills, and has
given legal status to FOs by registering them with a Registrar. In furthering the process, the schemes
were transferred to them for O&M. The process was further encouraged when NDP was introduced in
1997 with a strong framework for institutional reforms. The BCIAP got support in the shape of CISU, and
CIDs were established with an integrated team from the engineering, social services and agricultural
disciplines.
6.1.2  However, there are a few concems that raise questions about the sustainability of FOs. About
two years ago, GoBal withdrew support to NDP and subsequently withdrew from the program. It
impacted the CISU, which now exists with a skeleton staff. While a sustainable FO would require
hands-on experience and follow up support for about three years after scheme completion, it must also
go through the drills of works and management and fund raising with minimum guidance. Shorter
aftercare period after the completion of schemes has not helped many FOs to gain confidence in running
their organizations systematically. The available aftercare time of one year in the project was
compressed to less than a year due to construction works delays that dimmed the prospects of
sustainability. For instance, slow start with construction phase had the effect to push the peak towards
the later part of the project, which resulted in 20 schemes completed in the year ending June 2002. An
assessment of FOs before the project closed indicates that while all FOs exist and most are willing to
discharge their functions, many are weak in a number of aspects, such as maintaining accounts, doing
audits, holding regular meetings and records keeping, and holding elections because during the
construction phase the priority was to have continuity. However, it can be counter-argued that there is no
reason that all FOs will collapse because, as the independent UoB impact study confirms, there are
stronger traits of FOs, such as conflict-resolution and fund raising in routine matters and on specific
occasions, that can keep them running for a reasonably good time. The FOs are bound to utilize the
gains made through trainings and they have been equipped with basic work tools to carry out the
maintenance jobs.
6.1.3 Although there is some uncertainty that FO's full development is at risk without continued
government support despite FOs having been well established at this stage, there are inherent mitigatory
elements that provide safeguards to these grassroots community based institutions. These elements will
not permit them to be totally dysfunctional. Historically, minor irrigations schemes in Balochistan are
operated and maintained by the local people without any support from the Government. Since they have
been doing so for a long time, there is little doubt they would discontinue this practice in the future. They
may organize in a different form than the FO structure envisaged and promoted under the project, but
they do have organization, and tribal and social structure, through which they bring to bear enough
resources and manpower to maintain these systems. The schemes developed under the BMIADP before
this project in the early 90s are being maintained without govemment intervention, they are producing
attractive economic and social retums', and as such, are good example of local management.
Nonetheless, the government certainly has a role to continue with its institutional support to communities
that aims at further strengthening their management capacity. The partner comments (Section 9) also
- 15 -



call for continued govemment support that would enable CISU to provide aftercare to the FOs.
1/ Impad evaluation of 12 BMIADP schemes, camied out at fun development by the M&E Unit of BCIAP, indicates an overall land use
Intensity Increase from 13% to 37%, a three fold inaease in gross crop producdon values in 8 of the 12 schemes, and one *afl orchard,
scheme registering 80%economic rate of returm (with 40% median ERR): Source: Reports of the M&E Unit of PMU artd June 2001 atde
memoire of the IDA mission.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
BID made arrangements for a smooth transition from project's implementation to operational phase. As
a first step, an SNE (Schedule of New Expenditures) was submitted to the Finance Department (FD)
requesting continuance of a core staff consisting of PD, an Accounts Officer and a Computer Analyst for
a period of 4 months after project closing. This SNE was approved. It was also contemplated that CISU
should continue for 3 years, in a scaled down form with no more than 50% of the original staff strength,
for providing guidance to FOs in O&M, social mobilization, agriculture extension, and overall after-care.
Accordingly, another SNE was submitted to FD for the continued support of CISU for a period of one
year which would be repeated in the two following years. This SNE is still under consideration. Majority
of schemes (76%) were handed over to the beneficiaries soon ,after their completion while the remaining
were handed over shortly before project closing. A list of available vehicles and equipment was
prepared and the govemment would decide, in due course, its distribution to BID and DOA. All
screening reports, infrastructure engineering designs, and reports on various studies had been archived
in the BID library for future reference and guidance.
7. DBanik aind IBorrower Periormance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. Relatively longer project preparation and implementation experience of the BMIADP and
leaming in-depth lessons, particularly on the community involvement in the traditional Balochistan
setting, helped the Bank in expeditiously processing this follow on project. The BMIADP laid the basis
for a second phase operation, and a project preparation report finalized by the govemment, with
assistance from the project consultants, in June 1993, facilitated the project concept development in a
short time of a few months. The project was pre-appraised in November 1993 and appraised by May
1994. Because this project was appraised pre-LACI:, assessment of the financial management was not
completed but due attention was given to financial management and disbursement issues during
implementation.
The Loan Administration Change Initative of the Bank.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank fielded 11 supervision missions, twice a year throughout the implementation
period, with 4 to 6 members, including economists, engineers, agriculturists, sociologists, financial
management/disbursement and procurement specialists. There had been three task leaders during the
project period, only one member was included on six missions, while 12 members only visited the project
once. Such a wider diversity, on the one hand, introduced depth to the supervision effort, but
non-ontinuity, on the other hand, was also seen by other stakeholders as a constraint to quickly
understanding the issues. Nonetheless, Bank's role was perceived by the implementing agencies and
the communities to be supportive, constructive and helpful in resolving the implementation issues. The
regular presence of irrigation engineers, economists, agronomists, and sociologists in almost all missions
was valuable as that provided the project staff with an opportunity to discuss and debate rationale for the
key issues and reach consensus in finding workable solutions. Training provided to project staff during
supervision benefited them in understanding Bank's financial management and reporting requirements,
although PMU staff believed that additional project funds should have been allocated to training more
accountants. Visits from Bank's financial management expertewere appreciated by the project
management, particularly its accounting staff, in understanding and practicing prudent financial
management, clarifying disbursement procedures and resolving issues arising thereof. Timely
clearances by the Bank of procurement decisions in most cases earlier in the implementation phase and
a remarkably shorter tum-around time for clearances, usually within less than two weeks, from Bank's
Field Office in Islamabad was highly satisfactory and contributed significantly to the successful
- 16-



implementation of the project.
yDisbursement statf were involved In 5 of 10 total supervision missions, plus an FMS was involved on the ICR mission. Given the
securty situaton, Bank performanoe was satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Govemment of Balochistan was keen on building upon the experiences gained from
the BMIADP and, therefore, was very supportive of the preparation for this project. It worked on the
project preparatibn from April 1992 to June 1993, in tandem with the project closing time of the BMIADP.
In about a year, it completed feasibility and detailed engineering designs of some 10 minor irrigation
schemes, including one for the flood irrigation. It showed commitment to incorporate community
participation in the project design and recognized that ownership of all stakeholders in this kind of
development agenda is important to derive sustained benefits for the people and economy of the
Province.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Considering that the overall implementation period is marked with several successive
govemments, GoBal performed well in implementing this project. There have never been any problems
with budgetary allocation during the currency of the project and fund releases were generally
problem-free even in times of financial crunch. The project steering committee meetings facilitated
resolution of implementation issues. Except for the uneven govemment commitment to the over-arching
institutional reforms in the irrigation sector towards the later part of project implementation, the
govemment's performance has been highly satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. BID provided an unflinching support, on an overall basis, to the implementation effort.
While it can be argued that it could have done better without a relatively high staff turn over that it could
not control, its overall performance in project implementation has been very conducive in encouraging
the PMU and TA team in achieving the milestones set as indicators of progress. BID has been
successful in motivating contractorsy, FOs, and other stakeholders to keep the construction schedule
generally on track given the number of exogenous factors outside the control of the implementing
agency (para 5.1). A computerized system was used to monitor contracts awarded under the project.
The accounts in respect of expenditure incurred were generally well maintained. However, direct
payments by the Bank were not reflected in the books of account, although they were included in the
annual audited financial statements. Audit reports were generally received on time and were a mixed
bag of unqualified and qualified opinions, for instance, the last two reports have "adverse" and
"exception" audit opinions (the process to clear these outstanding audit issues is underway). Future work
with this agency should keep audit considerations in mind. The overall financial management has been
satisfactory except that financial reporting was weak but improved with Bank staff's guidance. There
were no significant deviations from Bank's financial management policies (OP/BP 10.02).
l/ The main civil works contracts were procured through Natonal Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, and futrther improvements in
the NCB process were agreed with the Bank and introduced during the project implmentadon This induded allowing all eligible bidders
an oppoitunity to compete without requiring registrabon with govemment agencies/departments as a pre-condciton for bidding. The post
qualification criteria In the bidding documents was also ratonaized to increase compebtion, while the Bank agreed to the Borrowers
proposal for requiring registration with the Pakistan Engineering Council only as one of the oondUiions for award for contrac.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
(i) Social mobilization needs to start early because its late start during the project period is less
- 17 -



fruitful. Social mobilization, specifically FO members' training, should start well before the project
implementation commences, possibly through an extended feasibility period, and carried through to the
post-project phase. Had it been so, all FOs established under the project would have been more
firm-footed, and would have a greater chance of continuing with confidence beyond the project period.
An important outcome of social mobilization has been the promotion of Women Groups, which was a
real challenge when compared with conditions in other provinces. While the project deserves credit for
achieving the results under these circumstances, it provides good lessons for expanding gender-based
activities for similar situations in the future projects.
(iI) Scheme selection during project period is fraught with delayed implementation. Scheme
selection, entailing careful screening of schemes based on social, economic and technical crieria and
longer time requjred in reaching agreements with communities on payment of FO contributions, resulted
in a delayed start of the construction works. Time available for engineering design, construction, and
after-care periods thus got reduced. It is advisable to have preliminary scheme selection completed at
project's negotiations and preparation of detailed screening and feasibility reports, including consultations
with communities, completed within the first year of project implementation.
(iii) Weirs are high cost structures and should not be routinely constructed while greater
emphasis should be laid on more cost effective CAD worrs. Considering that the cost of schemes
with weirs, on per cusec basis, is 25% higher than the average cost of other perennial schemes and that
fiscal constraints abound at present, the future projects should reconsider the value of headwork made
by weirs, particularly because headwork constitute about 70% of the scheme cost. Barring exceptions
where bed degradation is high, or shifting surface flows of rivers are common, the scope of works should
generally be limited to improvement of conveyance and distribution through the on-farm channel
improvements, which are low cost but high value works. This however should not be taken as a general
recommendation as weirs do have specific functions in specific circumstances. The decision to use weirs
should be based on careful technical criteria and cost analyses, and comparisons with possible
altematives.
(iv) Technical criteria for flood irrigation schemes need to be re-defined. The performance of pilot
flood irrigation schemes has shown that the existing technical criteria need redefining. The perceived
economic benefits should be enlarged to include possible recharge to the ground water and cattle
productivity in the command areas as functions of flood frequency. Flood irrigation is an important
resource in Balochistan, but investments in harvesting the flood water in future should be more
thoroughly examined against a broader set of economic and social benefits.
(v) Inflexible FO contracts do not accrue maximum benefits to communities. Involvement of FOs
in carrying out simpler works have been a good concept. However, the FO contracts were awarded on
the basis of an arbitrary cut of 25% on contractors' rates. In order to be fair to farmers, FO contracts,
instead, should be awarded at market rates (using the Engineer's estimate). This is particularly important
if contractors' rates are very low due to "front loading", with the contractor having large upfront sums for
mobilization secured by providing guarantees and insurances. As these items were not included in the
FO contracts, the FOs are obliged to perform contracts at artificially depressed rates.
(vi) Institutional benefits do not get mainstreamed by enrsuting implementation to pIwU. A
dedicated PMU, along with a Technical Assistance team, designed and constructed the infrastructure
works in an efficient manner. However, the project implementation experience did benefit BID, as an
institution, in a limited sense because PMU acted from outside the mainstream department and
independently. A PMU within BID and confining itself to detailed designing, monitoring and overseeing
implementation, and leaving contract execution to existing field formations may prove to be a better
proposition.
9. Peartiner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 18 -



BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION AND AGRICULTURE PROIECT
GOVERNMENT OF SALOCHISTAN
QUETTA
bRef. No. PD/PROJECTIGENI       NOL II               Dated: 3"' Dec'smber, 2002.1
To
Mr. Rashed-ulQayyurn,                o       A
Task Team Leader (BCIAP),            1 4 DEC 2131Z
The Wotid Dank Group,
Islamabad.                         ReCEIVE-0
Subject-          BALOCJfISTAN  COMMUNITY IRRIGATION AND AORICULTURE
PROJECT (Cr: 278 O-PAKADutch Trust Fund 22292J.
Draft Implementatlon Con2p)on Report
I have glanced over the above captioned report and generally found It Jn
order. The ICR adequately addresses all the Project's aspects and rightly Issesses the
development objectives achieved dunng the life span of the Proect I sincerely biilieve that the
lessons leamt during Implementation of the Project and reflected in the ICR, would prove genuine
parameters forfuture partieputorydevelopment projects in Balochistanorelsewhe-e. The efforts
poured In by you and other Bank's staff in producing such an insightfui Documenton BCIA Project
is appreciable.
On behalf of the BonowerImplementing Agency, I wish to share my
commantslsuggestons vth you In the following manner, which may be taken into account whle
finalising the ICR, provided that these are lrmpressivefnoteworthy.
I fully share your concern about sustainability of bth the qLantit2tive and
qualitative achievements of the Proct specifically, the inigation
infrastructures developed unrder BCIAP, which will remain on high stake
until and uniess a sound support and rmontoritng system ic. not provided
being paft of the aftercare activities over the economic lIfe .>r the Project
Since the future maintenance and operations of the irrigation schemes Is
the shouldering responsibility of the FOs, it is obvious that sustainability of
a particular scheme will very much dependent upon the fact that how
mobile and motivate FO it has The majority of FOs establis ied on OCiAP
and CISU schemes have shown a keen interest in scheme development
and have adopted a particpatoiy approach foroperation and maintenance
of their respective scheme, however, these FOs stitl need to collect
productions phase contributions for their Development and Maintenance
Fund accounts. They also need help in making proper use cf these funds
In longer term, the FOs are likely to fail if no support mecharismn is in place
orsupport services available Considering various indicators it is assessed
that out of 40 irrigation schitres 23 FOs established on BC;iAP schemes
are likely to be fully sustainable. Of the rest, 13 are likely to Survive for a
short period after the end of the Project whie 4 are already failing
- 19 -



In a nutshell, a well orgenised and patentiafly skiled FO is an inpoartnt
ingredient lor sustalnablWhy of the respectve sctemre.
Having fully conscious of the imminent danerthat the FO astabifihed on
BCIAPJCISU schemes w11 be unsustainable efter the support and
monitoring bySCIAP staff byond June.2002, adraft proposal for 3 years
expended aftercare support through 10 professional staff was pmpared in
May, 2002 wAth the following objacbves:
-     Btrengthenfg a? FafTners Organisatlans,
-     maintenance arDd development of infras0 re;
-     Improved agriculture; and,
-     women dovelopment on BCIAP schames.
The total cost to be incurred an materlallsing this proposal Nas estimated
to Rs. 58.5 milion and was sutbIted to te Govemment of Balohistan
wth the requesteithertoseekdonorsforfundhightes orGoElmaycome up
with the aiternate proposal to ensure sustainability of ths ProJea The
Governmenis response in this regard is sffl awaited.
H Is disappointing to note that the Inttutonal Deveotpment Component
was being rated as  nsaisfldory due to the reason that the Irrigation
Department not transformning itself to be a batter provide- of  range of
services to farmers despite of the conhnued efwts made by the Project in
this regad, including training, formaIon of CISU, developiy ant by CISU of
6 min schemes One of ft     reasons for so-caNed unsatsfactory
performance under this Projeor, Component may be that te insnttonal
change as envisaged under Natonal Dminage Programma (NDP) was to
take 7 - 10 years. However, due to withdrawal of GoB from fe NDP. the
instbtional reforms pmposed under the programme could not be
materialized with its oiiginal spirit It may also be noted thia a pmposal to
extend CISU is under conskleration of the Govemment of Elalochisltan and
the same if approved would ensure FOeustenabiity by proriding continued
aftercare.
Dt is requested that the Autho#of ICR recosider this point in the light of ft
above consIderation.
The Credit Amount of SDR 18.5 million as mfentoned On title of the ICR
may be changed to SDR 17.5 million as SOR 1.0 million has been
cacelled as of February 28, 2002 (ref: WB's Counlry Dirctoes letter dated
March 8, 2002).                                  (    )
BCIA Project
(b) Cofinanciers:
-20 -



Ambaetssade wt' hit
Koninkrijk der NederIanden
World Bank                                            Royal Neihcrlands Embassy
Mr. Rashecd ul Qayyum                                 Development Section
Senior Agriculture Specialist                         P.O. Box 1065
20 A, Ramna 5/1                                       Islamnabad
Sharah-e-Jamhuriat
Islariibad, Pakistan
Date     3 December 2002                               COiriac  Yasmin Jawed
Ourref   ISLP()ML-154f02                               Tel.     492 51 2279511
Puge     1/2                                           Fax      051 - 2277512
Encil.                                                 Emnil    Buzn-islamabad I@euronctnil
Re       Baluchistan Community Irrigation and Agriculture
c^c     PPrect (PK0056N4)
J!~~ ~~ <& ts^ A8.c4 k+
* 04 DEC 202 *
Dear Mr. Qayyum,
RcfieTcnce to your letter datkd 18'b November 2002, with r c spto
comments" on BCIAP project, following are the RNE observations about thc projcc.
* Over all the project % ent well and the project was able to coimplete ihs physical
target of constnuction 34 irrigation schemes Tlhe community participation
illustrated good results and the community voluntarily donated land for
construction of channels besides financial contribution by the farncrs.
*  The concept of afterarm period and training of the farmers to assume full
rN.sponsihility for operation and niamenance of the schemes will not yield results,
mntil the CGovernment of Baluchistan cnsures thc registration and training of Fos.
Hence the sustainability of FOs is doubtful.
* The Women and Development Unit could havc becn more construcltvc rather then
limiting to health and hygicne trainngs.
*  The Agricultural Extension was successful in persuading the farners in adopting
the recommcndations ofthe unit that improved the varicty of the crops.
-21 -



o   With tespect to institutional reformts the Irrigation Department till the cnd of the
project period did not achieve any progress which is a limiting factor in the project
rating
Yours sincerely,
Y           ''f$abA,'
Yasmin Jawcd
Programme Officer (Environment &Rural Development)
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
None
-22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndlcatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR               ActuallLatest Estimate
(i) Progress of 0 & M transfer program:  (i) O&M transfer.                (i) O&M transfer.
(a) Development of strategy and action  (a) Strategy developed, action plan with-held. (a) No further progress on action plan.
plan                                 (b) 34
b) No of minor irrigation schemes (alg PIS                               (b) 34
and FIS) transferred.
(ii) Institutionatization of Community Irrigation (ii) Partially yes.     (ii) Partially yes.
and Support Unit (CISU):                                                  (a) & (b) CIFO regubtions In fuD force;
(a) Issuance of ClFO1regulations     (a) CIFO regulations issued in April 2000.  Register also in pbce
(b) Designation of a FO Registrar in BID  (b) Registrar appointed.        (c) 32 FOs adopted. Documentation of the 5
(c) No of FOs adopting CIFO bye-laws.  (c) All 37 FOs will adopt the bye-laws.  remaining were incomplete by EOP.
(iii) Restructudng of BID to BIDA acDxrding  Since GoBal puled out of NDP in 2001,  Restructuring effectively abandoned.
to BIDA Act of 1997                  restructuring was not foSlowed through.
FOs who met finandal milestones (to indicate All 34 FOs (at 3 sites, more than one FO  Same as projected in the last PSR.:
the process of publc expenditure recovery  operated).                     (a) ICF contributions complete
being systematic and effective)      (a) they paid 100% of the due amount  (b) DF contributons will reach 100% soon
(a) intial capital fund (ICF)        (b) they paid 85% of the due amount   after cornmpleton of formalities.
(b) development fund (DF)            (c) they paid 6% of the due amount (mostly  (c) MF contributons accelerate after scherme
(c) maintenance fund (MF)            for schemes completing in 2000 and 2001)  commpotpon.
Output Indicators:
lndicatorfMatrix                   Projected In last PSR                ActuaULatest Estimate
Number of minor irrigaton schemes
completed.
(a) Perennial                        (a) 30                               (a) 30
(b) Flood                            (b)4 4                               lb 4
(c) Potable water                    (c) 12                               (c) 12
Number of mini schemes completed     6                                     6
Number of irrigation schemes where CAD
works completed.
(a) CAD TopograpNc surveys           (a) 34                               (a) 34
(a) CAD demonstrabons                (b) 25                               (b) 19
(b) CAD repricabons                  (c) 18                               (c) 16
End of project
-23 -



Anmne 2. Project Costs and IFimancing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       praisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
1. Community development and support              5.30           6.77          128
2. Irrigation infrastructure                      17.10         19.50           114
3. Institutional strengthening                    4.00           1.35           34
4. Strengthening project management                7.70          6.59            86
Total Baseline Cost                               34.10         34.21
Physical Contingencies                            2.40          0.00
Prce ConUngencies                                 2.00          0.00
Total Project Costs           38.50          34.21
Total Financing Required           38.50          34.21
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category    [CB          NCEB        Othr2        -B-.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        21.20         2.40        0.00        23.60
(0.00)      (19.10)       (1.60)      (0.00)     (20.70)
2. Goods                    2.50         0.40         0.30        0.00        3.20
(1.30)       (0.30)      (0.20)       (0.00)      (1.80)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.60        5.40        6.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.60)       (0.00)      (0.60)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         5.70        0.00        5.70
(0.00)       (0.00)      (3.60)       (0.00)      (3.60)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     2.50        21.60        9.00         5.40        38.50
(1.30)      (19.40)       (6.00)      (0.00)     (26.70)
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (ActuallLatest EstI.mate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     C              B        Other2       .B..      Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        20.16        0.00         0.00       20.16
(0.00)      (17.08)      (0.00)       (0.00)     (17.08)
2. Goods                    0.50         0.00        0.43         0.39        1.32
(0.40)      (0.00)       (0.38)       (0.00)      (0.78)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        1.15        4.93         6.08
(0.00)      (0.00)       (1.15)       (0.00)      (1.15)
-24 -



4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           6.65           0.00          6.65
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.04)         (0.00)        (4.04)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.50           20.16          8.23           5.32          34.21
(0.40)         (17.08)        (5.57)         (0.00)        (23.05)
Miscelaneous inchudes project management and O&M costs.
"Figures in parepthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate     _         =
IDA       Govt.      CoF.      IDA        Govt.     CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
1. Community development  3.65       0.51      1.54       2.74      1.37      2.65     75.1   268.6   172.1
and support
2. Irrigation infrastructure  17.95  2.01      0.00      16.55      2.94       0.00    92.2   146 3    0.0
3. Institutional          2.36       1.03      1.20       1.07      0.17       0.12    45.3    16.5    10.0
strengthening
4. Strengthening project  2.74       2.85      2.66       2.69       1.35      2.55    98.2    47.4    95.9
management
Govemments financing indudes communfies finandng.
-25 -



Annex 3. Econominic Costs gand Beneffits
A.     Production Impact
1.    At appraisal of the project, it was envisaged that inigation system improvements under the
project would lead to; (i) increase in cropped area; (ii) yield improvement; (iii) change in cropping pattern;
and (iv) increase in cropping intensities. An underlying key assumption was that the scheme
construction would start soon after the project got off the ground. It was a reasonable assumption given
that there were nine screened schemes ready for detailed designing at that time. But, it did not happen
that way due to various reasons, including more time required for screening the schemes. It took much
longer than envisaged for the social mobilization process that was crucial for persuading the farmers to
share scheme costs, and eventually, one year average construction period for most of the schemes
proved to be was quite optimistic and therefore under-estimated.
2.    The command areas of the schemes were not large. On average, the SAR anticpated an
expansion in cropped area from 44 to 65 ha per scheme. In the future 'without project' scenario, an
increase in crop yields was assumed from 0.5% to 1% a year over the next twenty years, whereas,
increase in yields 'with project' was assumed from 0.5% to 7% per year. Different cropping pattems with
varying rates of increase in yields were projected at different altitudes. Particularly, a change towards
high value orchards was anticipated.
3.    Out of 30 PISs, 18 were completed in the final year of project implementation (2001-02).
Therefore, it is too early to expect any substantial impact of these schemes on crop production. The late
completing schemes accounted for 67% of project farmers, 61 % of water flows and 47% of total area.
However, the M&E Unit had conducted impact assessment surveys in ten selected scheme areas, and
seasonal crop transect surveys in all schemes except those which completely dried up due to drought.
Notwithstanding the limitation of crop surveys, it appears that cropped area has increased from 4,008 ha
(baseline, 1997-98) to 5,309 ha in 2002 despite the drought. Moreover, an impact assessment study
conducted immediately before the project closed by a team of University of Balochistan (UoB) concluded
that many FOs might not be sustainable (implying in their present form). This conclusion could have a
significant impact in terms of diluting the scheme benefits in the future. Therefore, this ICR analysis,
based on the current data collected by PMU's M&E Unit, should be treated with caution. Once the
drought period is over, production increases can be expected along with a predictable shift towards highe
value crops, as demonstrated by the BMIADP and BCIAP schemes, which may then lead to different
results.
4.     The present economic analysis is based on estimated crop production in 30 PISs completed
under the project. To compare with SAR, the schemes were grouped with respect to their altitudes. Three
schemes were located in the high altitude (above 1980 m), 12 in medium (1000 to 1980 m), and 15
below 1000 m altitude. The cropped area of 1995-96, undertaken through transect surveys as part of the
impact monitoring, was treated as 'without project situation' because it reflected a better baseline than
cropped area assumptions made in the screening reports. Actual crop areas were determined by crop
transact surveys in all 30 PISs, for the year after completion of construction in 2001-02 (a number of
schemes were still being completed though). The baseline data were also collected for the four FIS and
six mini schemes, but no consistent or reliable data were collected for the impact in both these cases.
Therefore, this latter category of pilot schemes were not included in the economic analysis. Productions
impacts are assumed from the year following the construction completion (1998 to 2002) and up to the
period assumed for full development. The data used, have been further re-confirmed by the mission
during rapid field surveys and minor adjustments were made, where deemed necessary. The data,
entered in a computer database, provide a reliable representation of the scheme areas.
5.    The table below summarizes the SAR projections and the ICR re-estimates for cropping yields:
-26 -



_____________     Average Yield of Different Crops (kglha)
Crops                     Yiels given In SAR                   Yields taken in ICR
Pre-Project      Future        Future      Baseline"        Full
baseline       Without     With Project    (1996-97)   Development
1994-95        Project      (Full Dev)
Apples                 NG                NG          21.750         14,552        23,062
Mixed Orchards        11,700           14,040        16.355         9,471         17,774
Rice                  1,700             2,040         2,040         1,078         1,971
Wheat                 1,233             1,357         2,200         2,268         3,877
Vegetables            2,867             3,153        14,283         13,030        19,336
Maize                  900              900           900            865          1,581
Fodders               10,850           10,850        17,500        25,617         57,236
Melon                  NG                NG          16,100         12,479        17,873
Source- sAR and PMU/Consultan tsdatabase (baseline survey and data for 2002), NG = Not grown
1/ These are averages of the schemes with baseline data taken from the starbng year of scheme construcion. Detailed
crops information by scheme is available In PMU's report 'Crop Area and Transect Survey Report4 1992-2002'
6.       Estimated incremental crop production at full development is summarized below:
Incremental Production at Full Dev elopment (metric tons)
Crops                   Produ cton given In SAR                    ProducUon assumed in ICR
Pm-Project       Future        Future      Baseline"        Full       Incremental
Baseline       Without     With Project    (1996-97)   Development
1994-9S        Project      (Full Dev)
Apples                 NG                NG         14,202B        1,908 0       6,150A         4,2424
Mixed Orchards       6,470.1           9,747 6       3,2775        1,203.6       19,708.8       18,5052
Rice                  147.9              NG          (147.9)        301 0         287.2         (13.8)
Wheat                 1.387.5          3,3242        1,9367        5,611.7       6,4392          827 5
Vegetables            587 7            4,856.3       4,268.7       3,206 0       27,1684        23,962.A
Maize                  19.8              NG          (19.8)          24.5          20 5          (4.0)
Fodders               737.8            1,2863         548.5        2,446.6       14,291.6       11,845D
Melon                  NG                NG           418 6         181.8        7,160.7        6,9789
Source: PMU/Consultants Database
Notes: (i) SAR estimates are based on screening studies of the preceding project (BMIADP) and provincial agricultural statistics (ii)
Pre-project year is 1994-95, which is assumed as baseline in the SAR.
B.       Farm Income Impact
7.      The ICR has developed three separate models, as was done in the case of SAR, representing
farmers' irrigated holdings at high, mid and low altitudes. The SAR estimated increase in average farm
income from Rs 11,000 to Rs 65,000 per annum in the long run, measured in March 1995 prices. The
SAR compared the pre-project (i.e. baseline, 1994-95) farm income with the income at full development
(on an average, 11 years after construction of a scheme) of the project. The ICR adopted year 1996-97
as baseline, when implementation started. The ICR models use the PMU/consultants' database, with
some adjustments based on field information collected during the ICR mission, and by grouping the
schemes with respect to their locations at high, mid and low altitudes. For the present analysis, the
average irrigated farm size has been re-estimated (details in Appendix A), and compared with SAR's
farm area expansion scenario only, as shown below:
Size of Household Irrigated Holding (ha)
Scheme location            SAR                    ICR'
(by alttude domain)  Without Proec With Proec Without Projec With Projec
High Attitude       0.40       0    60     0.48        0.52
Mid Altitude        0         50  0.70     1.24       1 49
LowAltitude       0.02L        0.32        1.42       2.42
Average            0.31       0.54        1.25       1.86
!/ Note: Average irrigated holding size of 02 ha appears to have been underestimated in the SAR This figure was based on
one example (Kunara PIS), where actual baseline cropped area was 143 ha for 205 shareholders at the scheme screening
stage. In the constant area assumption (not shown here), 0.32 ha per farm has been taken in the "withour project stuation,
was more realstic
n/ The impact of drought (medium impact in four schemes and full impact in six zero-flow schemes) was corrected In the
reported crop area by substituting estimated averages of previous years so that landholding is not artificially skewed since the
- 27 -



irrigated holding sizes were computed by using the cropping intensities of respective atfituda domains.
8.     The tables given below present the SAR and ICR estimates of farm incomes from irrigated
landholdings at different altitudes:
Farm Income from Orrigated Holdings (Rs per farm par annum)
________      ~~~SAR        I__  _  _ _ __  _ _  _ _ _  ICR        _  _ _  _
Alttude   Baseline   Medium      At Full  Incremntrtal  Beaelbwn  Medium  At Full  Incrameantel
Domain    (FY95)       Run      Develop-   (at full dev  (FY97)  Run    Develop-  (at fui dev
___ ______ _______ Completion  ment  over base5ne)      Compbeon   ment    over baseline)
High Altitude  37.900  52,800      95600     57.700    29,131    41.677   92,536      63.405
Mid-Altitude  13.800   34,200     82,000     68,200    33,435    68,287  181,312     147,877
LowAltitude   500      20,200     20,200     19,700    26,121    115,993  188,114    161,994
Overall     17 400    35,733     65,933     48,533    29,562   75,3191   153,987  1 24,425
Source: SAR PMU/Consuttants' Database and updated estimates.
I/ Impad assessment study (UoB) puts average irrigated household Income In the schemas areas at Rs 80,500 per year, of
which 82% is agricufture based. The current average household Incorne In the province is Rs 53,500.
Farm Income Increa2e (%,ovc7 basaline)
AJWtud dormain         SIR                 ICR
at completion at full dev at competion at full dav
High Afitude      39        152       43        218
Mid Altitude      148j      494       104      442
LowAltitude      3,940     3.940_     344       620
Weighted Averae      S05       279      s54       421
9.     The average irrigated farms already show about 150% increase in income over the baseline five
years ago, in nominal terms (May 2002 prices), whereas appraisal estimates were more modest (81 %
increase based on March 1995 prices). Apart from the inflationary impact, the average holding size, as
computed from the observed cropped area of 30 PISs and estimated cropping intensities (FY97 baseline
at scheme screening stage), is about four times more than estimated in the SAR, which are the main
reasons for a robust income increase at the ICR stage. This compares well with impact assessment
study's calculation of average household income per annum of Rs 80,500, of which 82% is agriculture
based and 18% off-farm based.
C.      Employment Impact
10.    There are 8,922 farm families" in the project area, which would directly benefit from the project.
This includes 2,842 shareholding and 6,070 tenant (non-shareholding) farm families which would have
additional area brought under irrigation (Appendix A). Of these high number of tenants, 5,222 families
hail from the FIS where off-farm employment and seasonal migration is common. It is unclear though
that a majority of them would regularly benefit from increased crop and livestock productivity because
the number of "good" flood years are rather few. However, the remaining 848 tenant and 2,322
landholding families in the perennial irrigated scheme areas would certainly benefit from the increased
agricultural production, which would create an additional annual demand for about 130,000 person-days,
consisting of local farm labor, transport and other services.
1/ 9169 ff mini PiSs are also accountedfor.
11.    The total value of the FOs labor contribution was Rs 37 million (25% of the total FO contract
value), equivalent to about 1,400 person years employment. Contractors were required to employ 20%
of their labor requirements from within the scheme. Total labor for construction averaged about 100
persons per scheme, or a total of 3,400 persons for 34 schemes, or about 680 person years of
employment to scheme members.
D.     Non-Quantifiable Benefits
12.    The analysis of the project retums does not quantify the following benefits: (i) FISs and mini
schemes because they were pilot in nature and had data limitations; (ii) small hydroelectric power
generated at Gazg PIS; (iii) improvement in health resulting from provision of potable water, (iv)
improvement in village amenities through cloth washing and animal drinking facilities at the irrigation
channels; (v) improvement in the status of rural women; (vi) development of FOs, which could open
-28 -



further rural development opportunities (vii) availability of funds for O&M of the schemes as a part of
aftercare; (viii) measures to overcome salinity, and provision of drainage and flood protection measures;
(ix) promotion of integrated pest management techniques and other agricultural extension activities; (x)
development of social capital that would enable greater role of farmers in irrigation system management
in future; (xi) acceptance of the principle of up-front cost sharing among farmers; and (xii) multiplier
effects of the aforementioned benefits. For example, the multiplier effect of agricultural extension
activities though their direct effect on production and indirect influence in promoting farm inputs/outputs
related trade when disposable income start rising. The impact study carried out by UoB observed the
following trends that can be attrbuted to agricultural extension:
(a) improved seeds recommended for major crops were being used by 30% farmers;
(b) enhanced knowledge and ability to identify main pests/diseases: acknowledged by 43% farmers;
(c) 30 to 40% orchard owners adopted recommended practices of spacing, pit size, pruning and
marketing;
(d) 54% farmers spent additional income on upgrading living standards;
(e) 33% farmers spent such income on agricultural implements, and 13% on increasing farm area; and
(f 68% farmers reported temporary decrease in income due to drought (4 of the 6 schemes sampled by
UoB were drought affected).
E. Costs
13. (a) Investment Costs
(i) Costs in current Rs were converted to May 2002 prices by applying the Pakistan consumer price
index to local costs and MUV index to foreign costs. The project investment costs in constant
financial prices were then converted into economic prices by applying conversion factors of 0.9 and
1 to the local and foreign costs respectively.
(ii) For the scheme-wise ERRs, the cash flow of costs has been derived by including scheme
construction costs, its O&M costs and relevant overheads (engineering, administration and
community support groups' costs) calculated on prorated basis whereas in the SAR, total investment
of the PISs comprised of constructions cost, 70% of the engineering, administration and aftercare
period, and 50% of community development and support services costs.
(iii) For the overall project analysis, the ERRs have been calculated for three scenarios: firstly,
summing up the costs and benefits of 24 PiSs, excluding the costs of six PiSs, which are drought
affected and have no impact on the stream of benefits; secondly, adding the costs of six PlSs
schemes and computing delayed benefits by 4 years (assuming that normal wet cycles resumes in
the near future); and thirdly by adding all other costs including the construction costs of the flood and
mini pilot schemes but benefits being taken from the 30 PISs only.
(b) O&M Costs
(iv) Scheme maintenance costs were assumed to start in the year following commissioning of the
scheme. The project has developed a schedule of farmer scheme O&M costs by type of structure
for each component in every scheme. Total estimated annual O&M costs for the 30 PISs is Rs 5.4
million, assumed to run from the year following construction to the end of the project life.
14. Quantifiable Benefits
(i) The ICR has re-estimated the project benefits using a similar approach as employed in the SAR.
The economic analysis only considered the incremental benefits due to increased crop production of
30 PISs resulting from project investments. Six mini schemes, constructed by CISU as part of the
BID training program, are small and very simple consisting mainly of channel lining, and baseline
data were although collected for these schemes, impact monitoring was not undertaken after their
construction. These schemes may have positive retums, but are excluded from the economic
analysis for want of discreet data. Similarly, four FISs, built as pilots to test potential flood scheme
designs for future development, were excluded from the economic analysis because expected
returns from them were already low (probability dependent) and the persistent drought may have
further reduced these retums. However since it is possible to quantify their benefits, special
-29 -



comments about FISs are being made at end of this section.
(ii) Agricultural benefits. These benefits accrue from higher production that would result from
improvements in the irrigation systems, including construction of diversion weirs to ensure reliable
irrigation supplies and lining of perennial irrigation channels, from agricultural extension activities,
and optimally, from a combination of both. Incremental agricultural benefits were derived by
developing a model using linked worksheets in EXCEL. Separate financial and economic crop
budgets were developed for the analysis. The agriculture data collected by PMU/consultants during
their monitoring activities in all the 30 PlSs were used for the model.
(iii) Agricultural yields. The SAR assumed an increase in yields from 0.5-1 % a year over the next
twenty years. Early impact monitoring results endorse the assumption. However, based on PMU's
observationd, yield rates are expected to increase further as farmers adopt improved agricultural
practices. The ICR assumes increases in yields as follows: wheat 2.7%, vegetables 8%, mixed
orchard and rice 2.9% over a period of 20 years. After that, yields have been kept constant.
(iv) Crop and orchard area. The data collected by PMU reveals that overall cropped area increased
to 133% of the baseline by 2002. The increase was achieved despite a severe drought, and a few
schemes ceasing to grow crops at all. Rabi crops area declined to 95% of the baseline, though the
vegetable area increased to 380% as per information collected in the post-construction impact
surveys. Kharff crops increased to 225% of the baseline, almost reaching the full development level
because area under sorghum, pulses and oilseeds increased considerably. These are low water
requiring crops, which probably is a drought response by farmers. Cropping response is better than
expected, given the serious shortage of water in a few schemes. The cropping areas can be
expected to further increase after the drought ends. As compares to without project situation, an
increase of 60% has been assumed in the area of 24 schemes out of 30 PIS excluding the area of
six drought affected schemes (these schemes were: P02, Lei Gat; P08, Maluk Kareze; P13,
Domandi; P14, Mirjanzai; P37, Tangiwar; and P39, Khaza Kareze). However, where the agricultural
data could not be collected due to restricted movements of the TA team for security reasons, the
benefits have been worked out as average from similar schemes.
(v) Projected design flows. At appraisal (screening), projections of water availability were based on
the then prevalent 'wet cycle" However, data are not available indicating how much extra water was
available during the wet cycle as compared to average years. Accordingly, the crop benefits are
accounted for an average year by assuming 10% less water flow than that of the design.
(vi) Reduced water losses. The data for water losses were unavailable, however, the ICR mission
explored in the field during its visits that water losses were certainly reduced. However, diversion of
flows during the Kharif season improved as a result of permanent headwork on many schemes,
particularly in the lower altitudes of summer monsoon areas. The CAD works also helped in
reducing distribution losses.
(vii) Lift Irrigation. The only scheme where lift irrigation has been provided under the project is Chutta
PIS. Out of three diesel engines provided for lift irrigation, 2.5 cusecs capacity each, two would
operate simultaneously and one additional installed as standby. The scheme was completed in June
2002, while the diesel engines were mounted in April 2002. It is too early to estimate impact on
realizing benefits. However, the cost of pumping water has been computed (see Appendix B)
comparing with the cost of similar type of tubewells installed elsewhere in the Balochistan, outside
the project. The cost for lifting irrigation water comes to Rs 715 per acre foot which is lower than the
costs of irrigation water pumped by the tubewells provided by any other project in the Balochistan.
The tubewells installed at Duki under another project with the similar utilization factor as that of
Chutta, the cost per acre foot comes to Rs 987, which is 38% expensive to operate. A comparative
analysis shows that the cost is maximum at Rs 1,792 per acre foot for the tubewell installed at Duki,
followed by another tubewell installed under same project where the pumping cost is Rs 1,358 per
acre foot. Under BMIADP, such cost is Rs 1,163 per acre foot.
(viii) Flood Irrigation Schemes (FIS). Based on preliminary review, it is evident that the FISs have
high costs but low retums. Out of four pilot FIS, investment on two was rescued by replacing the
-30 -



earthen erodible bunds with gabion weirs because the farmers could not reconstruct earthen bunds
when those failed during the first year after construction. The projection of ERR at the screening
stage was 11.6% for Chandia and 5.6% for Marufzai FIS. At completion, the ERRs were not
computed because crop monitoring data, being limited to two seasons, would be misleading. Impact
assessment were undertaken by determining cropped area by season for flood schemes, but it would
require several years to further study it to be able to measure the benefits with any certainty. Impact
data are reported in BCIAP Flood Irrigaton Schemes (April 2001 and June 2002). The baseline and
interim impact surveys for the FIS need to be repeated with a frequency that corresponds to flood
cycles. All measurable indicators (not merely crop transect surveys), such as livestock and other
wealth indices, annual crops, as well as rainfall data should be collected and baseline upgraded for
2-3 flood cycle to have some grip on meaningful quantified benefits.
15.   Financi*l and Economic Prices. Economic farm gate prices for traded outputs were valued at
import parity for wheat and fertilizer (phosphate and potash), and at export parity for rice, cotton and
fertilizer (urea). Adjustments were made for freight, handling, processing and quality differentials. Prices
of non-traded inputs and outputs and wage rate for labor were expressed in economic terms by applying
a standard conversion factor of 0.9. Prices of agricultural commodities have been given in Appendix-C.
Other assumptions are described below:
(a) Constant prices are assumed over the project lifetime at 2002 values. For simplicity, a single set
of prices was used for all the schemes.
(b) Output prices were obtained from the local markets and averaged for the project area. For
computing the farm-gate level prices, adjustment for transportation and handling were made.
(c) Being skilled and highly qualified personnel, economic values of the administration and
engineering staff costs were assumed to be similar to the financial value.
(d) Scheme benefits are estimated over 20 years following construction. Schemes were completed
between 1998 and 2002, so the benefit model is for 24 years overall.
(e) Capital and O&M costs for all schemes are accounted for in developing cash flow of costs.
F.     Estimates of Economic Rate of Retum (ERR)
16.   For working out the project benefits, a computer model was developed using each scheme's data
on cropping pattern and cropped area. To work out the overall ERR, individual scheme models were
prepared and aggregated at project level. Scheme benefits were estimated by making comparison under
with and without project situation. Under without project situation, it was assumed that the crop areas
would remain the same over the analysis period and no increase or decrease has been accounted for.
Under with project situation, full development is assumed in 7 years except for the areas under orchard,
which is assumed as 15 years. Year 2015 was assumed to represent full development. After that, these
have been kept constant. The following table shows the incremental agricultural benefits at project level:
Agricultural Production Benefits (at full development)
(Rs Million)
Without       With Project  Incremental    Percentage
Project
95.212         282.550        187.339       197
17.   Scheme-wise ERRs. The schemes have been grouped with respect to their altitude, and the
ERRs have been computed for individual schemes as well as for the group of schemes located at low,
medium and high altitudes. While no scheme-wise analysis was attempted at appraisal because majority
of the schemes were yet to be identified, ERRs have been computed for all PISs at completion. The
results have been compared with the ERRs calculated at the screening stage for individual PISs. These
are summarized in Table 1, Appendix D.
18.   The following tables summarizes the results of project level aggregates comparing with the
ERRs reported in the SAR.
Scenario 1: Based on costs and benefits of 24 PISs, excluding costs and benefits of six drought
- 31 -



affected schemes:
Economic Rate of Return, %
Altitude Domain              SAR                              ICR
of Schemes    Constant    EXpanded   Overall   Minimum    Maidmum     Overall
area        area
High Atitude     NA          NA        11.0     . 15.7        28.0       20.8
Mid Altitude    12.0        15.0      13.5        10.4       26.3       15.6
Low Altitude     6.0        15.0      10.5         5.1        24.8       14.0
Overall ERR       -14.0                           -           -       1 4.7
ERR, Borrowers                                                           60d
Evaluation Report                                         I           I         I
a/ Boffowees Evalualon ReporVs ERR of 6% is based on impact data of currendy cropped area for 24 schernas. However, the
assumption of drought situation oontinuing for a longer period (not only more than 10 years for zero flow schemes to return to normalcy
but also assuming that mild to medium drought affected schemes would also take 5-7 years to restore nomial crop areas) is too
pessimistic. The Project Completion Report, prepared by the PMUrTA team, however, calculates ERRs at 11.8% and 13.6% under two
more optimistic scenarios.
Scenario 2: Based on costs and benefits of 30 PISs, including costs and reduced, but delayed benefits
of six drought affected schemes:
Economic RatG of Retum, %
Altitude Domain              SAR                              ICR
of Schemes    Constant    Expanded   Overall   Minimum     Daximum    Oveail
area        area
High AtAude      NA          NA        11.0      wve          28.0       15.7
Mid Altitude    12.0        15.0      13.5      4ve          26.3        13.3
LowAltitude      6.0        15.0      10 5       -ve          24.8       12.9
Overall ERR       -           -        14.0                              13.2
Scenario 3: Based on costs of all 36 PISs (30 minor and 6 mini schemes) and 4 FISs but with benefits
from the 30 PISs only because quantifiable benefits from FIS and mini-schemes are not available. The
overall ERR under this scenario of the project is 11.4%. No comparative figure is available in the SAR.
Overall Economic Rate of Return
19.     The overall project ERRs, under the three different scenarios as noted in paragraph 18 above,
are shown in the following table:
Overall Economic Rate of Return, %
SAR                                      ICR
Scenario 1                          14.0                                     14.7
Costs and benefits of 30 PIS only.  Costs and bene%ds of 24 PIS that were litte (or
partly) affected by drought.
SAR                                      ICR
Scenario 2                          14.0                                     13.2
Costs and beners of 30 PiS only.    Costs of aU 30 minor PIS, beneft of 24 PIS as
__________   ________         _____________   ______    normal and 6 PIS as delayed  due to droughL
SAR                                      ICR
Scenario 3                           NA                                      11.4
(no comparative data avaiable)   Costs of aD 36 PIS (30 minor and 6 mini) and 4 FIS,
_ ___             _______  __________________________             but benefis from  30  minor PIS
Sensitivity Analysis
20.     Three variables were developed to test the sensitivity of the project:
(i) Output delayed by three years: The benefits against the new area and new orchards delayed by
three years.
(ii) Reduced incremental output: The benefits reduced by 20% due to reduction in incremental
output.
(iii) Contracts awarded to FOs on similar parameters as those of the main contractors: The contracts
awarded to the FOs were at 25% reduced rates.
- 32 -



Variable Tested              ERR, %
Base case, ERR of 24 PS (Scenado 1)        14.7
Output deyd by three years                 11.1
Reduced ineremental output by 20%          11.1
FOs' contrad cost equivalent to contractor  13.3
H.     Financial Rate of Retum (Return to Farmer Equity)
21.    Similar to economic analysis, the SAR had worked out Financial Rate of Retum (FRR) for the
various cropping system at different altitudes. The overall FRR was computed as 11% (with no increase
in command area), and 17% (with command area expansion), if 100% costs were bome by the farmers.
However, since tpis was not to be the case, FRRs were also calculated with the assumption that farmers
would share 15 to 30% of the capital cost. These FRRs ranged from 35% in the mid altitude to 99% in
the low altitude domain schemes. The ICR re-estimated the FRRs at one scenario only, i.e., farmers
contributing 20% of investment costs and command area expansion taking place in all cases. According
to PMU data, farmers' actual investments were Rs 119 million as their cash contribution and Rs 71
million as scheme development and maintenance costs (CAD works and O&M). The scheme-wise FRRs
are given in Table 2 Appendix D.
22.    Financial retums to the farmers worked out at the ICR stage range from 34-72% for the mid
altitude and 20-81% for the low altitude schemes. In the high altitude domain, FRR at completion is
44-76% as against the SAR estimation of 38%. For the overall project, the FRR at completion is 43.7%.
A comparative summary is given below:
Financial Rate of Retur, %
Cost sharing scenario              SAR                           ICR      _
constant area Expanded  Overall  Minimum  Maximum     Overall
A. Farmers Contribute 100%
High Afitude          NA        NA        17.0     17 83      30.84     23.11
Mid Altitude          17        17       17.0      11.40      28.89     16 21
LowAltitude           11        16        13.5     4.35       26.51     14.55
Overall                         .        NA        .          .        15.48
B. Farmers Contibute 15-30%e
High Alitude          NA        NA        38.0     44.09      75.84     55 39
Mid Altitude          34        35       34.5      34.03      72.27     44.87
Low Alttude           85         99       92 0     20 39      80.56     42.69
Overall              -         -         NA        .-                  43.74
Note jl comparison fbr maxdmum or minmum FRR Is among 24 schemes. Drought affected scheme have zero or negaive FRRs.
2/ This scenario pertain to SAR. while 20% farmees contributon was taken at the ICR stage.
- 33 -



Appendbi A
Farm Families, Ctdtivated Farm Si23/almily, and Cropped Area
(by perennial and flood irrigaton modes
By irrigation mode and tenure            Before project                              After project
(baseiine)                               (co pletion)
PISIFIS       Farm    Cropped   Cropping  Cultivated Holding size  Cropped  Cropping  Cutivated Holding size
and        families    area    intensity   area     (cultivated   area    intensity   area     (cultivated
altitude domain                                         landifamily)                               landilfamlly)
(number)    (ha)     (%)        (ha)       (ha)       (ha)       (%)       (ha)       (ha)
Parennlal Irrig.
a. iLandhoddes      264       107       85        126        0.48        117       85        138        0.52
High Altitude                                                                                  I _
Mid-Altitude    847       1.316     125       1.053       1.24       1,578     125       1,262       1.49
Low Atitude     1,210    2,585      150       1,723       1.42      4,390      150       2,927       2.42
Sub-total      2,321S    4,008     138a      2,902       1.25       6,082     141'      4,327       1.86
b. Tenants          848        1/     _V
Total        3,169     4,008      138      2,902       0.92       6,082      141       4,327       1.37
Flood Irrig.                                _                        _
a. Landholder       531      1,231      50       2,462       4.64      4,012a      50        8,024      S5.11
b. Tenants         5,222      O                     _                    1U
Total        5,753     1,231      50       2,462       0.43      4,012a       50       8,024       1.39
Grand Total     8,922
2/ Tenants cropped area Included in the landholders category
2J Weighted average. Cropping intensity has been assumad to be constant in before and after project situatons in the three
altitude domains because of widespread drought and recent completon of many schemes
yI Based on 5 observabons in four FiSs in two crop years after completon, the remaining 3 observabons were extrapolated
Ideally, the data should be average of three crop years in flood schemes.
41 It does not include 247 landholders of the 6 mini-PISs. The mini schemes were located at Sarmalak, Theragha, Thojagai,
Ganjabad, Kalandarani, and Sunn Karez, with a total discharge capacity of 8.8 cusec and esUmated cropped area of 810 ha. at
completion. Assuming 141 % cropping intensity (same as in minor PlSs), average irrigated landhdding works out to be 23
hatfamily The basegne holding size works out to be 1.5 ha assuming that mini schemes folow an area expansion trend
idenbcal to the minor-PISs.
Source: Derived from Appendix tables from the PCR prepared by the PMU.
- 34 -



Appendix B
Financial Operating Costs of Lift Irrigation Pump (May 2002 Prices)
Descriptlon of Cost Attribute   Unit                 Pum   LocationlPr ject (pump capacity In cus cs)
BCIAP a/    BMIADP      DukI-1      Dukl-2      Duki-3
(2.5)      (0.75)      (0.75)      (0.75)     (0.75)
Motor Rabrng, horse power        HP                48          20          16         16          16
Utilization Factor                %              32.0%       36.5%       13.2%       19 2%      36.6%
Ufilizaton                       Hr/Yr           2,800        3,200      1,160       1,680      3,204
Diesel Consumption              Ltr/Yr           12,600      7,250       2,900       3,360      6,408
Engine Oil                      Ltr/Yr           126 0        96.0        20.0       20.0        20.0
Operating Costs  I
DieseL @ Rs 18.20/ltr          000 Rs/Yr         229.30      131.95      52.78       61.15      116.63
Engine OiL @ Rs 82/htr         000 Rs/Yr         10.30        7.87        1.64       1.64        1.64
Lubricants & Grease            SurrmYr.           0 50        0.40        0.20       0.20        0.20
Cotton Waste, Other            SurrmYr.           0.20        0.15        0.08       0.08        0.08
Repair & Maintenance           SumvYr.            3.60        1.80        0.72       0.79        0.87
Management & Supervision       SurrmYr.          36.00        18 00       7.20       7.92        8.71
Total OperaUng Costs                             279.90      160.17      62.62       71.78      12813
Capital Cost & Amortixation
Capital Cost (Rs 000)          Lumpsum           903.00      477.00      450.00     472 00      46000
Plant Amorizaton                Years            12.00        12.00      12.00       12.00       12.00
Unit Operating Costs                                                            _
Quantty Pumped, acre feet (AF)   AF              577.3        197.9       71.8       103 9       1982
Quanbity Pumped                 000 m3           712.0        244.1       886        128.2       244.5
Operabna Cost of Water          Rs/AF            484.8        809.4      872.1       690 9       646.5
Operating Cost of Water        Rs 000 m          393 1        656 2      706.8       559.9       524.0
Operabing Cost of Water         Rs/Hr             100.0       S0 1        54.0        42.7       40 0
Unit Capital Replacement Costs
Quantity Pumped                  AF              577.3        197.9       71.8       103.9       198 2
Quantity Pumped                 000 m3           712.0        244.1       88.6       128 2       244.5
Amortization Cost               Rs/AF             230 0       354 0       920.0      667.0       341 0
Amortization Cost              Rs 000 m'          186.0       287.0       745.0      540 0       276 0
Amortization Cost               Rs/Hr             47.3        21.9        56.9       41.2        21 1
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage
Total Unk Cost of Pumpage       Rs/AF            714.8       1,163A      1,792.1    1,357S9      987.5
Total Unit Cost of Pumpage     Rs 000 m           579.1       943.2      1,451.8     1,099.9     800.0
Total Uni Cost of Pumpage       Rs/ Hr            147.3       72.0        110.9       83.9       61.1
at Under the BCIAP Project, only Chulta Scheme has diesel lift pumps, operatng cost of pumping water has been compared with the
one of BMIADP Scheme, i.e., Kan Mehtarzai Scheme
b/ For comparing the oDst of pumping water, actual data cdlected for other tubewells operatng in 'Duki' area under different operatng
conditons has been utlized. The above analysis shows that the cost of pumping at Chutta is cheaper than of any other tubewell
- 35 -



Finacial & Economic Pricee U3od In Projoct Analysis
DaestAption  | Unit   Financial Economic     Description     Unit    Financial Economic
Outputs                                     Inputs .. (contd.)__
Crops                                       Pastcid_s
Cottn                      20.75    19.80   Cotton            Rs/Spray   600.00     540.00
Rice (Irri)                 7.25    12.68  FRice              Rs/Spray   500.00     450.00
Rice (Basrnatl)             9.75    17.95   Sugarcane         Rs/Spray   300.00     270.00
Sugarcane        Rs/kg      0.95     0.78   Wheat             Rs/Spray   300.00     270.00
K Fodders        R          0.93     0.83   Orchards          Rs/Spray   600.00     54000
K Vegetables     Rs/kg      7.00     6.30   Vegetables        Rs/Spray   300.00     270.00
K Orchards                  8.45     7.61   Labc7
Wheat            Rs/kg      6.25    10.78   Butock            Rs/Pbugh    60.00     54.00
R Fodder         Rs/k       0.70     0.63   TractDr           Rs/Hour    150.00     135.00
R Vegetables     Rs/kg      7.00     6.30   Manual             Rs/Day     75.00     67.5.0
R Orchards       Rs/kg      8.50     7.65   Energy        ____
By-Products                                 - Diebs            Rs/Uter    17.00     13.5.0
Cotton           R          0.94     0.85   - Lubriants        Rs/LAter   61.00     56 12
Rice             Re/kg      0.83     0.75   Electricity Tariff:
Wheat            R          2.44     2.20   - Public TWs       Rs/Kwh      3.99      4.28
Inputs                                      - Private TWs 1/   Rs/Kwh      2.29      4.28
Saed                                       [Water RabeD
Cotton           Rs/kg     75.56    68.00   Cottoaathet       Rs/Acre     70.00     70.00
Rice (Im)        Rs/kg     16.67    15.00   Rice               Rs/Acre    90.00     90.00
Rice (Basmati)   Rs/kg     23.44    21.10   Sugarcane          Rs/Acre   175.00     175.00
Sugarceane       Rs/kg     54.00    48.60   K Foddars          Rs/Acre    52.00     52.00
K Foddears       Rskg      15 56     14.00  R Fodder           Rs/Acre    60.00     60.00
K Vegetables     Rs/kg     48.00    43.20   Vegetabas (both)  Rs/Acre    130.00     130.00
K Orchards      Rs/Plant    4.00     3.60   K Orchards         Rs/Acre   200.00     200.00
Wheat            Re/kg      8.13     7.31   R Orchards         Rs/Acre   150.00     150.00
R Fodder         Re/kg     68.00    61.20
R Vegetables     Re/kg     38.00    34.20
R Orchards      Rs/Plant    5.00     4.50
Fertilizers
Nitrogen (N)    Rs/Nkg     22.83     24.70  _             _
Phosphonus (P)  Rs/Nkg     19.13     30.50   _                _                        -
Potash (K)      Rs/Nkg     14.50    20.16
F.Y. Manure     1000 Kg   300.00    270.00
1/ In adfition to energy charges, fixed charges @ Rs 82 per KW per month are eharged
Source : Open Market Prices adjusted at Famn gate Level
- 36-



Amnndix D
Table I of 2
Table 1: Economic Analysis. Scheme-wise ERRs (%) at Screering and ICR stages
No.    Scheme     Scr   ICR    No      Scheme      Scr   ICR   No     Scheme       Scr      ICR
A  Hbh AMUW2                  P-33 Sazoo          12.7  10.4 P-14 Mi anzef        20.5     -ive
P42 Lei Gat'      21.7   -Ive  P-37 rangWar"        13.5  -ive  P-16 Zerin Hasol    12.7      9.7
P-25 Wala Viala   12.1   15.7  P-39 Kazha Kareze'  13.3   -ye  P-22 Mushkaf        13.8      24.8
P-62 Iskalku      19.4   28.0  P-44 Mahlwal        18.7   19.1  P-23 Wandri        11.0      17.2
Overall    11.0  15.7   P-49 Wahar          25.9  26.3  P-24 Kumbri         12.9     12.9
B  "MdAtdQ                   P-61 Sangorn K halil  18.6  19.4 P-26  hutta         13.3     11.5
P408 Maluk Karez t  16.3  -4ve          Overall    13.5   13.3  P-28 Khad          14.6      18.2
P-10 Pandran      17.8   19.7   C    Lo  ftudf                 P-30  cher Wand     15.0      15.7
P-11 vMunara Kaban  15.6  16.7  P-03 Lakharo       17.0   5.1  P-31 Hatachl        14.1      14.9
P-13 Domandf       9.2   fve   P-04 Kunara         14.7   10.5 P-47 injori         12.5      13.4
P-17 Mara Tangi   15.3   12.6  P407 Amad Wal       15.1   12.2 P-50 Barkohi Ess.    14.7     22.5
P-21 3azg         10.9   12.8  P-12 Khar]            NA   1 4.8  =     Overall     10.5      12.9
tl Drought affected schemes with flows at 0% to 20% of the design flow, winter cropped area reduced by 56% over baseline.
Notes: (i) The screening stage ERR Is that one oornputed at the appraisal stage d hMdMdual scheme. (Q) Three schemnes were not
evaluated for want of agricultural data. The data was not collected by the consuttanb team due to the restricted movement of TA
team for the securIty reasons.
ArppendixD
Table 2 of 2
Table 2a: Financial Analysis -Scheme-wise FRRs (%) at ICR stage
(I) Farmers contribute 100%
No.    Scheme     ICR    No     Schene       ICR   No    Scheme       ICR
A  High     de-        P-33 Sazoo           11.4  P-14 Mi anzl        -ive
P-02 Lel Gat       -ive  P-37 Tangiwar       -ve   P-16 Zerin Hasoi    10.0
P-25 Wala Viala   17.8   P-39 Kazha Kareze   4ve   P-22 Mushkaf        26.5
P-62 Iskaiku      30.8   P-44 Mahrwal        19.7  P-23 Wandrl         17.6
B  Md Altitude_        P49 Wahar            289  P-24 Kunbri          12.4
P-08Maluk Kareze   4ve  P-61 Sangori K       19.7 P-26 Chutta          11.9
P-10 Pandran      15.7    C   Low AlUibAde         P-28 Khadrd         18.0
P-11 Munara Kalan  16.4  P403 Lakharo         4.3  P.30 Acher Wand     16.2
P-13 Domandi       4ve  P44    unara         11.2  P-31 Hatachi        15.2
P-17 Mara Tangi   12.9  P-07    mad Wal       7.3  P47 Sinbr           13.7
P-21 Gazg         13.1   P-12 Khad           16.9 P-5O Barkohi Ess.    25.6
Note: No FRRs were computed at screening stage.
Table 2b: Financial Analysis - Scheme-wise FRRs (%) at ICR stage
(II) Farmers contribute 20%
No.    Scheme     ICR    No I    Scheme      ICR   No    Scheme       ICR
A  HlhAItLt de         P-33  azoo           34.0 P-14 Mianzai       l4ve
P402 Lei Gat      -4ve  P-37 Tan-war         4ve   P-16 iZern Hasoi    30.1
P-25 Wala Viala   44.1  P-39 Kazha Kareze    4ve  P-22 Mushkaf         80.6
P-62 Iskaiku      758   P-44 Mahrw           482   P-23 Wandd      |   50.2
B  M       de Altude   P49 Wahar            72.3  P-24 Kumbrl        39.7
P408 Maluk Kareze  4ve  P-61 Sangori K       53.8  P-26 Chutta         33.9
P-10 Pandran      44.0   C   L   AP28 Khadr                            51.1
P-1I Munara Kalan  46.4  P-03 Lakharo        20.4  P-30 Acher Wand     50.5
P-13 Domandi      4ve   P-04 Kunara          37.5  P-31 Hatachl        41.9
P-17 Mara Tangi   39.3  P-07 Ahmad Wal       33.3  P.47 Sinjod         42.0
P-21              39.3   P-12 Khadi          49.6  P-50 Barkohi Ess.   72.9
-37 -



Aimmne 4. BainDk Inpunts
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle            No. of Persons and Specialty      Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year  Count         Specialty                 Proges      Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/90                     3   ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
ENGINEER (1); AGRONOMIST
(1)
AppraisallNegotiatiom
11/93                   4   ECONOMIST (1);
IRRIGATION ENGINEER
(2); INSTITUTIONAL
SPECIALIST (I)
5/94                     4   ECONOMIST (2); IRRIGATION
ENGINEER (1);
INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
(1)
Supervision
10/1996                  4  AGR. ECONOMIST (1);            S          HS
ENGINEER (1);
SOCIOLOGIST (1);
WOMEN IN
DEVELOPMENT (1)
10/1997                  4  AGR. ECONOMIST (1);            S           S
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
SOCIOLOGIST (1); GENDER
PARTICIPATION SPEC (1)
05/1998                  5   AGR. ECONOMIST (1);           S           S
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
(I); AGRICLTURALIST (I);
WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
(1)
05/1999                  6   MISSION LEADER/AGRI.          S           S
ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
ENGINEER (1);
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
SOCIOLOGIST (1)
05/1999                  5   AGRI. ECONOMIST (1);          S           s
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (I);
GENDER SPECIALIST (1);
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (I);
AGRICULTURIST (I)
11/1999                  8  AGRI. ECONOMIST (1);           S           S
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
IRRIG. AGRICULTURE SPEC.
(1);
- 38 -



SOCIOLOGIST/INST.SPEC.
(1); M&E/GENDER SPEC. (1);
PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
DISBURSEMENT SPEC. (1);
TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
05/2000                    4  MISSION LEADER (ECON.)          S            S
(1); AGRICULTURALIST (1);
IRRIGATION ENGINEER (I);
DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
(1)
11/2000                   5   TTL (1); COMMUNITY DEVJ         S            S
AGRI. EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
(1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
(I); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
06/2001                    S  TTL (1); IRRIGATION             S            S
ENGINEER (I); COMMUNITY
AG EXTENSION (I); GENDER
SPEC. (I); TEAM ASSTT. (1)
01/2002                    4  TTL (1); IRRIGATION             S            S
ENGINEER (1); COMMUNITY
AG EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
ECONOMIST (1)
ICR
5/2002                    8    TTL (1); IRRIGATION            S            S
ENGINEER (I);
COMMUNITY AGRI
EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
ECONOMIST (1);
INSTITUTIONAL SPEC
(1); GENDER SPEC (I)
DISBURSEMENT SPEC
(1); FINANCIAL MGT.
SPEC (I)
TTL=Task Team Leader
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation            NA                      294.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                  a/                        a/
Supervision                           87.8                    618.2
ICR                                     a/                       a/
Total                                 87.8                    912.5
at ldentification/preparalon indudes resources used for appraisaVnego6aQons. Supervision indudes ICR resources.
-39-



Anniex 5. IRiimgs for Ach0eve ment of G)b ecfDves/IunVtputs of Comnpoments
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
J Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
C Physical                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
J Institutional Development          O H O SU O M O N 0 NA
E Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N O NA
OGender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
OOther (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N O NA
2 Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
s Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
E Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
-40-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
E Lending                                          OHS *S       Ou    OHU
I Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
 Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 41 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting lDocunments
Studies/Reports Prepared under the Project
1.     Reconnaissance reports for 18 districts (helped identify a portfolio of schemes), 1995-99
2.     Hydrological studies (2 sites), 1997
3.     Soil survey studies (10 sites, for agricultural purposes), 1997-99
4.     Design Manuals on (i) Financial and Economic Analysis, and (ii) Impact Monitoring Systems,
1997
5.     Maintenance Management Manuals for Farmers (14), 2001
6.     Scheme Design Reports for various Perennial and Flood Irrigation Schemes (28), 1999
7.     Feasibility Studies (Screening Reports) for 38 Perennial and 5 Flood Irrigation Schemes
8.     Text Book on Farmer Participation, Farmer Organization, and Land and Water Use
9.     Training Manual 'Role of Water Management Cooridinator", 2000
10.    On-farm Land ad Water Management (Farmer Organization Training Manual), 2000
11.    Current and Future Demands of Water for Agriculture, 2000
12.    Training Modules for Village Development Agents (5)
13.    Scheme Development Manual for Community Organization (2 volumes)
14.    Procedure for Registration of Farmer Organizations under CIFO Regulations, 2000
15.    Gender Sensitization Training Volume, 1999
16.    Crop Area Impact on BMIADP Schemes, Transect Surveys, 1997-98
17.   Impact Assessment of Community Support and Aftercare of BCIAP, 2002
Documents/Reports of the Bank Consulted
1. Full supervision reports, including Form 590/PSR of the project: FYI 996-2002
2. Black Books and Project (Cr. 2780-PAK) files in the Islamabad Field Office (6 volumes)
3. Staff Appraisal Report (8/28/95) and Development Credit and Project Agreements (11/22/1995)
5. Dutch Grant Agreement (3/28/1996)
4. Bank's Operational Manuals
5. Guidelines for Preparing ICRs
-42 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report
1. Background
Balochistan forms the south-westem part of Pakistan and with a land area of 350,000 km2, constitutes
44% of the country's total land area. To the south, the province is bordered by the Arabian Sea, to the
north by Afghanistan and the North West Frontier Province, to the east by Sindh and Punjab, and to the
west by Iran.
Balochistan has the smallest population of the four provinces of Pakistan. The 1998 census estimated
the population of the province to be 6.56 million, of which 73% live in rural areas. The influx of 1.5
million Afghan refugees in the 1980s and their subsequent partial repatriation in recent years has had a
significant effect on natural growth trends. The annual growth rate of the population from 1981 to 1998
was 2.47 percent, lower than the national average of 2.64 percent. Administratively, the province is
divided into 22 Districts.
Water sources in the Province are scarce. Springs and perennial stream flows are small and spate run
offs are unpredictable. More reliable sources for inigation are springs and karezes, that emanate from
the limestone mountain ranges, as well as the karezes and infiltration galleries that were built into the
permeable river gravels of the mandas.
Between 1982 and 1994, the Govemment of Balochistan implemented the Balochistan Minor Irrigation
and Agriculture Development Project (BMIADP) which implemented 41 perennial irigation schemes
throughout the province. The project design of the Balochistan Community Irrigated Agriculture Project
(BCIAP) incorporated lessons leamt from BMIADP. BCIAP is a community development project where
farmers contributed towards the cost of infrastructure development and took over responsibility for
operation and maintenance of their schemes after completion. BCIAP developed and demonstrated
irrigation management transfer to farmers for the minor irrigation sub-sector in the province.
2.     Project Objectives
As formulated at appraisal, the overall objectives were to increase the scope and productivity of
Balochistan's minor irrigation sub-sector and increase farmer's income. The project's specific
objectives were to:
(a) redefine govemment's role in minor irrigation development and provide assistance to facilitate
change;
(b) develop sustainable FOs which, among other things, can efficiently operate and maintain minor
irrigation systems;
(c) develop self-sustaining irrigation systems, and increase FO participation in their planning and
construction;
(d) increase beneficiaries' incomes and alleviate poverty; and
(e) increase the recovery of public expenditure on irrigation infrastructure from beneficiaries.
2.1 Project Components
The main components of the project consisted of:
(i) Community Development and Support
(a) forming and developing FOs by providing technical assistance, data collection, guidance, legislation
and training;
(b) providing engineering, agricultural and other services to project beneficiaries;
(ii) Infrastructure
(c ) designing, constructing and/or rehabilitating 30 minor irrigation schemes, a pilot programme of four
flood irrigation schemes and, where possible, associated potable water supplies;
(lii) Project Management
(d) supporting the project management unit (PMU) within BID to implement the project by providing staff,
technical assistance, training, equipment, vehicles, office space and operating funds. The PMU would
-43-



include a community support group (CSG);
(e) monitoring and evaluating project implementation through providing staff, technical assistance,
vehicles, equipment, office space and operating funds;
(iv) Agency Strengthening
(f) strengthening BID's capabilities to interact with local communities and assist develop community
planned and implemented minor irrigation by providing technical assistance and training, including
implementing some six mini irrigation schemes as part of in-service training; and
(g) developing a pilot programme to investigate how BID might generally transfer O&M responsibilities
to FOs of all minor irrigation scheme outside this project or BMIADP.
Aftercare was to1be provided after the closure of the IDA loan at the end of the Implementation Phase for
a period of two years with funding by Dutch Grant and the GoB. However, only one year of Aftercare was
provided, with funding as provided in the revised PC-1 of July 2000, and detailed in Table 1 .
(v) Aftercare (July 2001 to June 2002), to provide post construction support to Farmer Organisations
to help them develop the capability to operate, manage and maintain the newly constructed
infrastructure, as well as to carry out command area development works funded by the farmers, and to
provide agricultural and water management extension to optimise the use of water and maximise
agricultural production.
Project objectives were clearly stated and project components were designed to achieve these. BCIAP
aimed at the development of Farmer Organisations which participated in scheme development and took
over responsibility for scheme operation and maintenance after completion. Infrastructure development
was the means to achieve irrigation management transfer in the minor irrigation sub-sector in the
province. The Project developed 30 perennial and 4 pilot flood irrigation.
BCIAP strengthened the capacity of BID to interact with communities in planning and implementation of
minor irrigation schemes through an intensive training programme for 50 engineers and the
establishment of the Community Irrigation Services Unit (CISU) and two Community Irrigation Divisions
one each in Khuzdar and Loralai. New legislation for FO registration was developed. The project was too
small to do more than initiate change in the way minor irrigation is developed in the project, and
continuity with the National Drainage Programme was required.
The Project duration was six years and five months (February 1996 to June 2002) of which one year
(July 2001 to June 2002) was the Aftercare period. In the SAR it was envisaged that Aftercare would
continue for two years after IDA loan closure with funding from the GoB with Govemment of Netherlands
assistance. Unfortunately, due to the GoN closure of lending operations in Pakistan, the Aftercare period
was reduced to just one year. Funding arrangements for the one year Aftercare period was included in
the revised project PC-1 which was approved by ECNEC in October 2000. The IDA loan was also
extended for this Aftercare period to ensure the proper completion of construction on all schemes.
Component wise project cost allocations in the original PC-1, the revised PC-i, and actual utilization by
source of funds are given in Table 1.
Table No.    Component Wise Project Cost Allocations in the Original PC-1, Revised PC-1
and Actual Utilisation by Source of Funds (in Million Rupees)
Project  Onginal   Revised PC-I Allocations July 2000  Actual Utilisation April 2002  Utilisation
Components PC- I   IDA   GoBal  NTF    FO    Total  IDA   GoBal  NTF    FO   Total  as % of
April   Share  Share  Share  Share       Share  Share  Share  Share      Allocation
(1995)          _       _
Community    216.0  142.1  56,0   123.7  0.0   321.8  126.0  63.8  117.6  0    307.4  95.52
Development                                   __I
Infrastructure  717.3  865.6  89.1  0.0  50.9  1005.6  802.9  89.2  0.0  37.0  929.1  92.39
Project      258.0  126.1  70.7   123.4  0.0   320.2  134.1  65.1  107.8  0    307.0  95.89
Management
Institutional  164.0  78,4  15.3  7.7    2.9  104.3   59.2   5.8   5.9   3.0   73.9   70.85
-44 -



|Development   |      l     l      l      l      l     l      l      l      l         I
Aftercare      0      0.0   5.0    32.1 | 0.0   37.1   10.6 1 4.7    14.8   0    30.0   80.84
Total         1355.3 1212.2  236.1  286.9  53.8  1789.0 1132.8 | 228.5  247.1  40.0  1647.4  92.09
Acronyms: IDA  Intemational Development Assodation  GoBal Govemment of Balochistan
F0   Farmer Organisation         NTF    Netherlands Trust Fund
Note: The Afltercare component was induded in the revised PC-i, and was to be financed through NTF and Govemrnment of
Balbchistan. However, due to slippage of construcUon works on some schemes, and shortage d NTF funds, staff costs in the Aftercare
perod were met by the NTF and operational and construction costs were shared by IDA and GoB.
3.     Project Design
This comprised the following elements: (a) careful screening of schemes according to social, economic
and technical criteria; (b) beneficiary participation in scheme planning and implementation through
establishment of'FOs at scheme screening stage; (c) FO strengthening by imparting organisation and
management training throughout the project period, ensure that FOs fully understand their obligations
and agree to contribute towards the capital costs of their schemes and take responsibility for operation
and maintenance of their schemes after completion; (d) consideration and evaluation of all technical
options when designing schemes; (e) a two years Aftercare period following completion of construction;
(f) initiating changes in BID so it can better serve minor irrigation scheme communities; (g) clustering, if
possible, schemes into four geographic areas; (h) undertaking appropriate qualification and monitoring
procedures conceming contractors, (i) ensure strong project management which adopts a
multi-disciplinary approach to scheme development; and 0) continually monitoring project
implementation progress, and periodically evaluating results and impacts and making any necessary
programme adjustment.
The project has a pragmatic design based on the lessons leamt from the BMIADP and all elements of
the design were implemented in integrated manner. Scheme selection took considerable time due to the
rigorous screening criteria and difficulties in reaching agreements with communities on payment of FO
contributions. Reconnaissance visits were made to 570 perennial irrigabon schemes, of which 65% (369)
were rejected as they failed to meet technical, economic or social criteria. Tribal disputes in areas of the
province also delayed scheme selection. A total of 38 screening reports were prepared, three were later
rejected due to emergence of farmer disputes. Screening reports elaborated on technical options and
justified the preferred technical option.
Beneficiary participaton was initiated from scheme selection with an awareness campaign. FOs were set
up at screening stage when communities agreed to the approach for scheme development. FO
contributions towards scheme development cost and FO strengthening were linked through milestones in
the scheme development process. FOs took a long tme in mobilising capital cost contributions and all
upfront contributions in the Capital Development Account were only completed in August 1999.
The Project followed National Competitive Bidding procedures and only contractors registered with the
Pakistan Engineering Council were eligible to participate in bidding. Tender evaluation and contractor's
performance were monitored, and execution of civil works was supervised by the project.
Due to the scheme selection criteria, community contributions and the vast project area, it was not
possible to cluster schemes geographically, and this aspect of the project's design was not adhered to.
The project management team represented multi-disciplinary qualifications and skills comprising
Financial Management, Community Irrigation Engineering, Social Science, Community Development,
Women and Development, Agriculture Economics, Impact Monitoring and Management Information
System, Water Management, Maintenance Management and Agriculture Extension. A good mechanism
for coordination of activities of the multi-disciplinary team was implemented by reorganisation of roles,
duties and responsibilities of staff to meet the changing development needs as schemes were
developed, and with associated changes to the project organisation. The formation of the community
support group was particularly successful in helping to coordinate the rather complex extension activities
required and provided to farmer organisations.
The institutional development (agency strengthening) component was delayed due to the advent of the
National Drainage Programme. The component was modified and BID initiated changes and
implemented six mini irrigation schemes using the beneficiary participation approach of BCIAP through
-45 -



the Community Irrigation Services Unit.
4      Project Implementation Performance
4.1 Community Development and Support
Farmer Organisations, comprising all water shareholders and an elected Management Committee, were
established on all schemes. All the clans making up the scheme's community were represented on the
Management Committee. Where two communites shared one scheme with two separate command
areas (or sources), two Farmer Organisations were established. A total of 37 Farmer Organisations were
formed on 34 schemes and were provided capacity building training in organisation and management
enabling them to conduct their affairs efficiently. Their capabilites were strengthened with follow up
training, practical demonstrations of tasks and assistance in preparing and keeping written records.
Farmer Organisations completed all upfront cash contributions (Rs 7.1 million) by August 1999. Rs 37.3
million (99.2%) of the labour contribution due (Rs. 37.7 million), was achieved by April 2002 by
implementing Farmer Contracts using rates 25% less than the main contract tendered rates. The entire
amount will be collected once all schemes are complete. Development Fund Account contributions
totalling Rs 5.9 million were due in the construction phase on perennial irrigation schemes and Rs 2.8
million (47%) had been collected by April 2002. Maintenance Fund contributions are due one year after
scheme completion, 22 schemes achieved this, of which 14 schemes had opened specific maintenance
fund accounts by April 2002. At the end of April 2002, a total of Rs 49.5 million (43%) of the required
amount has been deposited. Most of the balance becomes due in the five years after completion of the
project.
The Govemment issued Community Irrigation Farmer Organisations (CIFO) regulations under the BIDA
Act in April 2000. The Head of the Community Irrigation Services Unit (CISU) was given additional
charge as FO Registrar for Non-Indus Basin Community Irrigation schemes and an Assistant Registrar
was appointed in 2000. Registration of FOs commenced in early 2001. By the end of April 2002, 19 FOs
were registered, six FOs had submitted applications and eight were under preparation. Four FOs
remained unregistered at Project Completion.
Farmer Organisations participated in all stages of scheme development from identification to preparation
of design and construction. All FOs were given construction training enabling them to implement their
Farmer Contracts. These contracts typically comprised 20% of the total planned infrastructure works. On
31 schemes, FOs completed the works under their contracts. On three schemes, works were incomplete
and (minor) non-essential components were cancelled. Difficulties were faced in implementing Farmer
Contracts due to inexperience of farmers in construction and management of contracts. Specifically, in
the procedural formalities for award of works, collecting the financial resources required for procurement
of materials, equipment and (skilled) labour, management of construction, preparation of bills and
receiving payment, and resolving disputes. All have contributed to delays.
4.2  Infrastructure
BCIAP scheme designs were based to a large extent on the BMIADP design manuals. However, various
innovations were introduced, largely to try and improve value for money. These included gabion weir
structures, gabion spillways to replace earthen breaching sections for the flood irrigation schemes,
automatic (hydro-mechanical ) gates for scour sluices (at Toiwar FIS), potable water supply systems and
a micro hydro-electric system at Gazg village.
Flood estimation was improved by extending hydrology records, and design criteria were adopted for
potable water supply systems and for flood irrigation systems. The BCIAP design manuals updated,
extended and improved the BMIADP manuals.
Due to a prolonged scheme selection period and delays in collection of FO contributions, screening was
delayed about an year beyond the planned cut off date (30 June 1998). Detailed designs were prepared
for 33 perennial schemes while three were dropped during the design process due to a variety of reasons
including emergence of intemal disputes and late payment of contributons. The last detailed drawings
-46 -



and tender documents were completed in September 1999. Subsequent design variations due to site
conditions and FO demands resulted in construction implementation delays.
Where there was an increase (or decrease) in as-built quantities, or additional works were required,
variation orders were prepared. The World Bank required that approval be sought for all variation orders
exceeding 15% of the (Main and Farmer Organisation) contract price.
Potable water supplies were provided on 11 perennial irrigation schemes and an existing system
rehabilitated on one flood irrigation scheme. All 30 perennial and four pilot flood irrigation schemes were
completed. The Community Irrigation Services Unit completed six mini irrigation schemes. One mini
hydro-power system was constructed.
4.3 Project Management
The Balochistan Irrigation Department, through the Project Management Unit (PMU), was responsible for
implementing the project, with a Project Steering Committee to oversee overall project management,
policies and supervision. The Steering Committee was required to meet as required, and to approve all
Screening and Feasibility reports, annual programmes, annual construction budgets and other policy
matters. The Steering Committee was chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary (Development) and the
Project Director as ex-offlcio member as Secretary of the Committee. Other members of the Steering
Committee included the six provincial secretaries from the Finance, Irrigation, Agriculture, Livestock,
Health and Public Health Engineering Departments and one Member from the Board of Revenue. During
the project period, several Project Steering Committee meetings were held. The Steering Committee
proved to be a useful and appropriate forum for deciding policy matters and vetting and approving work
programmes, Screening Reports, etc.
The project had little difficulty in recruiting staff with the required levels of qualifications and experience.
Overall, the project organisation performed well by maintaining roles and responsibilities designated to
each section or unit, and ensuring a strong multi-disciplinary team. The Community Support Group
comprising five extension units (Community Development, Women and Development, Water
Management, Agriculture Extension and Maintenance Management) was reorganised during project
implementation to better meet the changing requirements of schemes as they developed. A major
reorganisation and change in focus took place in early 2001 for implementation of the Aftercare
programme. The project area was divided geographically into four regions, with one multidisciplinary
extension team responsible for implementing CSG activities in each area.
There were no difficulties in procurement of equipment, however, procurement of vehicles was
considerably delayed. The project planned to procure vehicles by July 1996 but new vehicles were only
procured in March 1998. The project had two offices (PMU and TA Team) in two buildings in February
1996. The community support group office was established in a third building in April 1996. In January
2001, with construction activities reducing, the third office was closed. In June 2001, the second office
was closed. In January 2002 the project offices were shifted to a govemment building.
Project staff training programme was implemented as planned and training and visits were arranged as
necessary. Funds disbursement was smooth and according to requirements. No financial difficulties were
encountered on account of IDA loan, Dutch grant or GoB disbursement.
The project prepared Annual Work Plans with quarterly targets and implementation was monitored
through Semi Annual Reporits, and Quarterly Progress Reports which were prepared between the Semi
Annual Reports. In October 1997, the project initiated Monthly Progress Reports due to the large amount
construction, development and extension activities then on-going. Progress reports were a good tool for
monitoring the pace of implementation, and allowed management to make necessary changes to
programmes, staffing organisation and duties, in a timely manner. Project activities and targets were
formally reviewed and updated in the Semi Annual Reports.
The project's Management Information System kept the management, client and donors well informed
-47 -



about the schedule, progress of achievements of the project.
BCIAP maintained a project specific Quality Assurance Plan which all staff were required to adhere to.
The QA Plan detailed procedures for filing and maintenance of records, procedures for correspondence,
procedures for checking of designs and for storage, archiving and disposal of documents, procedures for
general staff administration (eg leave procedures), standard formats for reports, drawings and for other
deliverables.
4.4  institutional Development
The Institutional Development component was delayed for almost two years, with the aim of 'tying in'
with the National Drainage Programme (NDP) which had a much larger component of Institutional
Reforms and which started in December 1996. Under NDP, the Balochistan Irrigation Department (BID)
was changed to the Balochistan Irrigaton & Drainage Authority (BIDA) in January 1997.
To "te in" with NDP, the project developed a 'modified institutional development programme". Under this
programme, 50 BIDA engineers of three cadres were provided intensive training by a Training Task
Force set up by the project in February 1999. The training improved the engineering and technical skills
of BIDA engineers and introduced them to the community development through minor irrigation. The
project then assisted BIDA to establish a Community Irrigation Services Unit at Quetta and two
Community Irrigation Divisions at Loralai and Khuzdar, by providing resources, expertise and
procedures. Incremental non-engineer staff were appointed and paid under the National Drainage
Programme from August 1999 to January 2001. Agriculture extension staff were deputised from the
Agriculture Department. As part of 'on the job" training, CISU developed six mini irrigation schemes
following the BCIAP approach to scheme development.
The project, together with CISU, also developed an O&M management transfer strategy whereby all
schemes owned by BIDA could be transferred to farmers.
The modified institutional development component progressed well. Unfortunately, the GoB indicated in
March 2001 that it wished to close down NDP, and this resulted in forrnal dosure of NDP in March 2002.
With this, the process of institutional reform of the irrigation department stopped. The effect was that
CISU no longer enjoyed support from GoB and all non-engineering and seconded agricultural staff were
relieved. The effectiveness of CISU to develop farmer organisations and community irrigation
infrastructure, and to provide aftercare support, is therefore considerably reduced.
The project and CISU recently prepared draft proposals for the extension of CISU, or for some other
organisation, to provide, inter-alia, continued aftercare to BCIAP schemes. These proposals are under
consideration by the GoB.
5.    Project Impact
The Project developed and demonstrated irrigation management transfer in the minor irrigation
sub-sector in the Province. FOs on schemes developed under BCIAP have paid substantial contributions
towards the capital cost of infrastructure and have taken over responsibility for management, operation
and maintenance of their schemes. The BCIAP beneficiary participation approach was a radical change
in the way minor irrigation is developed in the Province. Traditionally, the Irrigation Department is simply
a constructor and maintainer of irrigation infrastructure.
The drought since 1998 has seriously affected water supply on many schemes. Six BCIAP schemes
were completely dry in 2002. Crop area transect surveys were conducted to establish baseline data and
impact monitoring. Baseline data was collected in 1997-98. Impact data were collected for subsequent
rabi and kharif seasons by the project and indicate an overall increase of 133% in cropped area for the
30 perennial irrigation schemes. Detailed information by crop at scheme level are reported in Crop Area
and Transect Surveys, 1992 to 2002, and summarized in Table 2.
-48 -



Table 2.      Crop Areas for 30 Perennial Irrigation Scheme
(acres)
Crop            Baseline       Impact Survey  Impact,as % of
1997-1998      by 2002       Baseline
Orchard Crops        638            723             113
Rabi Crops          6,511          6,205            95
Kharif Crops        2,753          6,185            225
TOTAL               9,900          13,113           133
The rabi crop areas fell, despite reduced conveyance losses, due to the drought. Kharif areas increased,
despite of the dr6ught, due to the new infrastructure (weirs, etc) allowing diversion of kharif flood flows.
The Project's Economic Intemal Rate of Retum (EIRR) was anticipated in the Staff Appraisal Report as
14%. From impact data, for currently observed crop areas it is estimated at 6%. This decline in EIRR is
mainly attributed to the prevailing drought which has resulted in drastically reduced crop areas. It is
assumed that once the normal (average) rainfalls attain from 2004, the EIRR will increase to 14% (as
predicted by the SAR).
Health, hygiene and safe water usage training was provided to women on all schemes. This training,
along with the 11 potable water supply systems constructed under the project, are expected to reduce
water related diseases. Women were trained and have taken responsibility for basic O&M of the potable
water supply systems. Potable water supply reduced the burden on women associated with fetching
water. Community women were also provided training to prevent water related diseases and 785 bed
nets were sold to communities for prevention of malaria.
The Project implemented demonstration Command Area Development (CAD) works on a 40% cost
sharing by beneficiaries on 20 schemes and replicaton Command Area Development works on 13
schemes. Nominated community persons were trained as Water Management Coordinators (WMCs) on
all schemes to provide basic technical ability to further develop CAD works and improve water
management on completion of the project.
Agriculture extension support was provided on all schemes and at each scheme the FOs' nominated
person was trained as the Village Development Agent to provide extension support after completion of
the project.
Scheme operation and maintenance arrangements were discussed with farmers and FOs, followed by
training of nominated gate operators and other key individuals. Scheme specific Maintenance Manuals
were prepared.
6.     Factors affecting Performance
Low rainfall was observed in 1998, followed by three years of almost no effective rainfall at all. Six
BCIAP schemes dried up completely, and average BCIAP scheme Rabi season flows were just 64% of
the design flows, itself a fairly conservative estimate, and Kharif seasons flows were even lower at 51 %.
The impact of the reduced water availability was serious. After the initial schemes were completed in
1998 there was minimal development of perennial orchard crops, on which scheme benefits depend.
Existing orchard was in some cases destroyed, or sustained by water transporting or tubewells.
Farmers responded to the drought by expanding low margin drought resistant crops (grains, pulses), but
also managed to increase the area of vegetables significantly. This was not enough to obtain the full
benefits expected for the project.
Security was another major factor influencing project performance. The law and order situation in the
province was poor particularly towards the latter part of the project period. During the project period a
-49 -



total of 12 vehicles were stolen, nine of these were taken at gun point. Only four vehicles were later
recovered. Project staff were restricted to travel only during daylight hours. Tribal conflicts in two scheme
areas restricted mobility of staff during the Aftercare period. One staff member of the project was
aHtacked with firearms, one was robbed at gun point and two were kidnapped for 18 days. These
instances had a demoralising effect on staff and their performance.
The expatriate staff of the Technical Assistance Team were forced to evacuate three times during the
project period. In August 1998 expatriate staff was evacuated to Islamabad, and twice expatrate staff
were evacuated from Pakistan following recommendations from their respective govemments, in
October 2001 and May 2002.
7.    Sustainability
The FOs established on the BCIAP schemes are still fledgling organisations which require further
guidance and support in performing their tasks. FOs have to collect substantial funds in Development
Fund and Maintenance Fund accounts for command area development works, and for O&M respectively,
after project closure, for which continued support is advisable.
Development Fund accounts were opened by 11 FOs on perennial irrigation schemes and Maintenance
Fund accounts were opened by 10 FOs on Perennial and four on Flood irrigation schemes. The office of
Registrar should provide monitoring and look into the use of these funds.
The sustainability of the completed schemes and realisation of the projected scheme benefits depends
on FO performance, and the extent that the increased water is used to cultivate high value crops.
The project is conscious of the imminent danger that FOs will gradually lose focus and commitment with
the ending of support and monitoring by BCIAP staff in June 2002. To avert this situation BCIAP had
proposed or supported six initiatives over the past three years, none of which has been taken up.
The project proposes provision of Aftercare for at least three years by the Govemment through the staff
of the Irrigation Department who received classroom and hand-on training in the project, and by staff of
the Agriculture Department who worked on BCIAP, or through any other similar arrangement.
8.    Borroweres Performance
The Govemment of Balochistan issued an ordinance in January 1997 to establish the Balochistan
irrigation and Drainage Authority. The purpose of the BIDA Act was to transform the Department of
Irrigation into an Authority mainly responsible for providing services to farmers. BIDA was established
under the seven year long National Drainage Programme which commenced in December 1996. The
Institutional Reform Component of National Drainage Programme was expected to define the type of
organisation and staff that BIDA would require. The Government of Balochistan had reservations about
National Drainage Programme which it decided to close down in March 2001. The Institutional Reform
Consultancy under National Drainage Programme was not implemented. This had repercussions for
sustainability of the institution development component of BCIAP.
With the exception of failure to support wider institutional reforms, Govemment policies were supportive
of the project and Govemment performed well. For example, GoB funding for BCIAP was made
available throughout the project period, project Steering Committee met regularly to approve screening
and feasibility reports, funding changes and work plans.
The Irrigation Department was particularly supportive of BCIAP, and the PMU was instrumental in
ensuring that BCIAP infrastructure was well completed, and mostly within time and budget, as well as
integrating well with the TAT and ensuring that the GoB and the World Bank were kept well informed of
project physical and financial progress and issues.
Under the direction of the PMU, the Technical Assistance Team (TAT) comprising consultancy, direct
hire and seconded GoB staff performed well in carrying out community development and community
-50 -



support, screening, design and construction, institutional strengthening and project management
activities.
9.    Donors Performance
The World Bank and the Netherlands Govemment were the two project donors, and were represented by
the World Bank.
The World Bank fielded 11 supervision missions, and helped timely resolution of issues and constraints
facing the project during implementabon. Approvals for screening reports, tender documents, contract
award, contract addenda and variatons were quickly considered and conveyed.
Adequate and timely IDA and Dutch grant financing ensure no delays during implementation. Also, IDA
loan funding was extended the loan by one year to allow proper completion of infrastructure as well as
support for the aftercare period. The Dutch grant was topped up to allow funding of the aftercare period.
The gap between BMIADP and BCIAP was small allowing key staff to be retained, and project
preparation for BCIAP was well done. Both the Donors and the Borrower can take credit for this.
10. Lessons Leamt
The project was well designed with respect to FO contributions. The "blue print" for scheme and FO
development clarified roles and responsibilities and key activities to be implemented. A dedicated PMU
with a separate Technical Assistance Team led to non-interference, quick decision making, and a target
orientated work force.
The Ume required for the reconnaissance and rigorous screening process were under estimated at
project preparation. To ensure full farmer participation and allow farmers to develop skills, procedures
and institutions, more realistic time frameworks need to be built into participatory projects.
Despite recognising the need to provide adequate Aftercare (typically seven to eight years from
identification to final tumover) in the Performnance Audit Report for BMIADP (Operations Evaluation
Department, 1995), BCIAP was only able to provide one year. This was insufficient, and some of the
fledgling Farmer Organisations are unlikely to be sustained.
FO contributions to scheme development, in terms of farmer consultations during preparation of design,
farmer involvement during construction, through CAD and other works after construction, and in cash,
are successful tools for implementing a participatory approach. Indications to date suggest that these
helped a lot conveying the concept of ownership.
FO contracts should be awarded at market rates (using the Engineer's Estimate), rather than using rates
set 25% below the contractor's rates. This is particularly important if contractors rate are very low due to
"front loading", with the contractor having large upfront sums for mobilization and provision of
guarantees and insurances as these items were not included in the FOs contracts.
Representation of non-shareholders (threshold requirement of tenants cultivating 30% of the total land)
should also be incorporated in the FO Committee.
Greater emphasis should be placed on Command Area Development works which are a low cost method
of improving scheme efficiency. Works should be extended to ensure maximum coverage of the
command area. Free demonstrations for CAD works were considered counter productive by the project,
as they resulting in others demanding similar free help.
Women and Development activities should be an integral part of Community Support Group activities.
Those directly related to water such as health and hygiene and operation and maintenance of the PWS
should be given precedence and a baseline set against which to measure future impacts.
The provision of agriculture extension services through the PMU rather than the DoA was based on the
-51 -



lessons leamt during implementation of BMIADP. The relative merits of this approach have been visible
in terms of all 34 schemes receiving a comprehensive package of services specifically tailored to suit
their water availability, soil type, climate and existing cropping pattem. Also, the increased mobility of
staff which have allowed extremely remote schemes to be targeted and visited on a regular basis.
The training of VDAs and WMCs, progressive local farmers who can promote change and better practice
within the scheme at no cost to GoB, was a good approach to achieve sustainable extension.
Infrastructure was generally well designed & robust. Value for money was quite good, and efforts to
make it better continued over the life of the project, for example by constructing gabion weirs and
hydro-mechanical gates. On the pilot flood irrigation schemes farmers appeared unable to reinstate the
earthen breachiug bunds, and these were replaced with gabion spillways. Further effort is needed to
develop economic ways to develop flood irrigation sector.
- 52 -



__________________________________                                                                                 IBRO  32161~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 32 6
TURKMENISTIAN - '  _5              64                     66-                    A                    70- 68                                                3
- -UZBEKSTAN JIF]TTAN.  -                                                                  j                                  PAKISTAN
i.-.,             I q,-vm       d^=nnbAM"san* N. W. F. P                                                         BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION
s  AFGHAN}STAN  _ 2  > AND -32* impA anHAuP portp/                                        i: mty- 32-             AND AGRICULTURE PROJECT
AL of Mop i                                                                  A E7)I                                       PROJECT AREAS
L , Jr . Sy PUNIA3 | or eJMeponce o oc _ ,, g; ;t 0 lfl vV                                                   *           PERENNIAL IRRIGATION SCHEME (P15)
PAKI TAN  S                                                                        -                                   PIS WITH POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
'k _ _,,_   <            2S                                        (  -N                           P0r,1'E                     A   FLOOD IRRIGATION SCHEME
V *                                                          DOMANDI I                |N                             F             M>BALHI,  NI PIES SCHEME
I        ''-A.S                w'<8-W                               N''m'^' I-'11                                            WIWEIR
-2 E'n  MAHLemUII ILAREZE (                                         INFILTRATION GALLERY
INDIA                                ICAZHA KAREPUBICS EX'  'i  ,-  X   *~5~f~.A                           Fl)  FREE INTAAE
,                                                            2L \  / LELGAT/SPEZANTAI (WIlE zX ~i~T~s~oI ,~ *  ~ -   \    AREAS WTH BEST POTENTIAL POR SCHEMES
LAD SYSTEM BOUNDARIES
I >      -~0    COAFGANISTKRAN        "} )~ETEAWAMV~i~'\~ SARB           @ 1 ,)  U           .    OF -ASELECTED TOWNS
620                 AFGHANI6 SSHAN                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITAL
_ _ |  ''SELEC-ED ROADS
OM~~~I~h~~~~MEEI  \BUGTI                   WL.LL~~~~t  CANALS
-~~~  ~ ~ ~ ' PUNJAB              -..c5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
. . . . . ..           1A                                      PUNJAB ~~DOLI * -A~'.  ~  'DRY LAKES
B R A H Clk ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' N13~~~~~- - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
v         IFI)                      0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:
28                                                                                                                                                      I  N.WF.P.
I  Lodgoskl  CNAAI KHARAN  ~   iJ*  'JNNKABEZBIFIS  oSO~'7 'Z% ~AVERAGE ANNUAL PRECIPITATION
WoTh~~~~k0  ~~  /  ~~~  *~~S.~~~ACHERWANBFV1 ~~~~~(NormQlized OL 1901-1940)                   l 
OF IRAN ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   /f<                        SNH!              NI                  AFGHANISTAN 
C'-EN TRA L M E~
CH~~~~~~~~S
26-  1 rb.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    5
216-  ISLAMIC  I006 
MEKRAN                UI, 6OP IRAN l_                                                                             /NDA
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L COATALMEKAN75000                                                      50 05NON         . IDI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                 25  50  75 1Ko e.  00 Mi%d. 
5000/    A~~rabian   Sea
612                    66                      A                                             70'            A,-obioo  Se.
NOVEMBER 200W






Rport No.:        25251
Type:    ICR



