Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Dutch Ref: PK 005604/PK005605
Bank  Ref: TF 022291
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Balochistan Community Irrigation and Agricultural Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated  December 5, 1995
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting 
by its President (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Administrator) as administrator of grant funds provided by the 
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS: (A)  the Recipient has obtained from the International Development 
Association (the Association) a credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to SDR 18,500,000 to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Project) on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to 
be entered into between the Recipient and the Association;
WHEREAS: (B) pursuant to an agreement dated May 24, 1995, between the Minister 
and the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), (the 
Arrangement), the Minister has appointed the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by the 
Minister for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and 
the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arrangement;
WHEREAS: (C) the Recipient has requested, and the Minister and the Administrator 
have agreed, to make available to the Recipient a grant out of the grant funds 
referred to in (B) above (the Grant) to finance the cost of preparing the Project 
referred to in (A) above and described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the terms 
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
WHEREAS:  (D)  the Project will be prepared by the Recipient’s Province of 
Balochistan (Balochistan) with the Recipient’s assistance, as part of such assistance, 
the Recipient will make available to Balochistan the proceeds of the Grant as provided 
in this Agreement; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i) Article 
I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (except for paragraph (h) thereof), 6.03, 
6.04, 6.06 and 6.07;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Article IX except for Section 9.03 thereof;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the Arrangement, except 
that in Sections 2.01 (8) and (11) and 6.02 (f), the term "Bank" 
shall also include the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii) 
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions,  
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv) 
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited; and 
(vi)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dutch 
guilders; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, 
purchase such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires: (a) the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the recitals 
Page  3
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; (b) the terms "Dutch 
guilders" and "f." mean the currency of the Netherlands; and (c) the term "BID" means 
the Balochistan Irrigation Department. 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in the 
amount of one million ninety-six thousand six hundred seventy-two Dutch guilders 
(f.1,096,672).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the activities described in the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, consultants' 
services to be financed out of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.04.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Administrator shall not be obligated to make any disbursement 
under this Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for this 
purpose from the Minister pursuant to the agreement referred to in WHEREAS clause (B) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Balochistan to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, 
and shall cause Balochistan to take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Grant available to 
Balochistan in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Administrator.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  The Recipient shall cause Balochistan to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments 
and agencies of Balochistan responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
Balochistan shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in the Economic Affairs Division of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
ECONOMIC
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Administrator:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
  and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By  /s/  Mansoor Elahi
Page  5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant 
By  /s/  D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of the items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to the Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in the Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dutch Guilders)
to be Financed
Consultants’
   1,096,672
100%
services
TOTAL
   1,096,672
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of f. 800,000, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after November 
30, 1994.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for 
consultants’ services not exceeding the equivalent $100,000 for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 for employment of individual consultants, under such 
terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the scope and productivity of 
Balochistan’s minor irrigation subsector and increase farmers’ incomes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development of farmer organizations which can operate and maintain minor 
irrigation systems, and provision of technical assistance, training and other services 
therefor.
Part B:
Construction and rehabilitation of about 30 irrigation schemes, a pilot program 
of four flood irrigation schemes and, where needed, associated potable water supplies.
Part C:
1.
Provision of training and technical assistance to BID to support the change in 
its role from builder of minor irrigation to a supplier of technical services to 
farmer organizations.
Page  6
2.
Carrying out a pilot program designed to assist BID in transferring the 
operation and maintenance responsibilities of all minor irrigation schemes (other than 
flood irrigation) to farmer organizations.
Part D:
Provision of support to project management and monitoring and 
evaluation. 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist Balochistan in carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall 
cause Balochistan to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.  Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient 
shall cause Balochistan to employ such consultants under contracts using the standard 
form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Administrator, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator.  Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Administrator, Balochistan shall 
use other standard forms agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
