卫


﻿CREDIT NUMMER 2780-PAK
PROJECT AGREEW&M
AGREEMENT, dated     A4M /0 J, 91 , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PROVINCE OF
BALOCHISTAN acting by its Governor (BALOCHISTAN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Islarnic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to eighteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that Balochistan agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)    the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to Balochistan; and
WHEREAS Balochistan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Derinitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Balochistan declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end.,
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial,. engineering and irrigation practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-2-
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Association and Balochistan shall otherwise agree, Balochistan shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Balochistan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
Balochistan shall:
(i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose beiween the Association and Balochistan, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;
(ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with Balochistan on said plan; and
(iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. (a) Balochistan shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)    Balochistan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Balochistan of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Balochistan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resource and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments and agencies of
Balochistan responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    Balochistan shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancelation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
Balochistan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-4-
(ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify Balochistan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For Province of Balochistan:
Planning and Development Department
Government of Balochistan
Quetta, Pakistan


﻿-5-
Cable address:             Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                        7875 BLNSE PK
QUETTA, PAKISTAN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Balochistan, or
by Balochistan on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may
be taken or executed by the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development
Department or such other person or persons as the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning
and Development Department shall designate in writing, and Balochistan shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/                           Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       International Comletitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
(a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with
the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension
exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, Balochistan
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued
by the Bank, Balochistan shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:       Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿-8-
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be packaged by site and
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.     Small civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,800,000, may be
contracted to farmer organizations in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
3.     Equipment and material, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $400,000, may be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more per contract and procured under competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.     Small items of equipment and material, or groups of items which, to the extent
practicable, cannot be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more each, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$300,000, may be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance m ith
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant


﻿-9-
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.
Section II:   Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist Balochistan in carrying out the Project, Balochistan shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, Balochistan shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, Balochistan shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.     Balochistan shall cause the PMU to hire by December 31, 1995 and thereafter
employ the following higher level and seconded staff: one Project Director, one Assistant
Project Director, four Junior Engineers, four Area Engineers, one Assistant Director
Finance, and six Agricultural Officers.
2.     Balochistan shall:
(a)    by January 31, 1996 prepare and furnish to the Association, for its
approval proposals for the carrying out of training under the Project with the assistance
of an organization acceptable to the Association;
(b)   by April 30, 1996, sign an agreement with such organization for the
carrying out of such training; and
(c)   prepare and furnish to the Association, for its approval, proposals for the
carrying out of training under the Project other than the training specified in paragraphs
(a) and (b) above.
3.     Balochistan shall cause PMU:
(a)    to assist farmer organizations to identify, plan and prepare Project scheme
proposals in a manner and in a form satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    to enter into an agreement with a farmer organization, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to finance, implement and maintain said
scheme; and
(c)    to transfer to such farmer organization the full ownership rights over the
improved headworks and distribution system upon the completion of each scheme and
payment by such fanner organization of its contribution towards the capital costs of said
scheme.
4.     Balochistan shall:
(a)    maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to
ensure the monitoring and evaluation, in accordance with guidelines and on the basis of


﻿- 11 -
performance indicators agreed with the Association, of the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)    prepare or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 1997 and on
or about September 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project during the period following such date; and
(c)    review with the Association, three months after the submitting of each
report or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the said report and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all measures required to ensure
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof,
based on the recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.
5.     Balochistan shall promptly hire, and thereafter employ the following consultants,
in numbers satisfactory to the Association, and in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(a)    a team leader (irrigation/rural development engineer), irrigation design
engineer/hydrologist, agricultural economists, sociologists, agricultural extensionists,
training planners, land and water management specialist, legal expert, chief design
manager, design engineers, specialist design engineers, hydrologists, soil scientist, water
supply engineer, survey engineers, assistant surveyors, auto computer assisted design
technicians, chief supervising engineer, site supervising engineers and monitoring and
impact evaluation specialist; and
(b)    as required to assist Balochistan in the supervision of Project execution
and in the preparation of future projects.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


