Z /V 3: Yo / - X7
Docwunt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Rqort No. 9501-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
AUGdST 19, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MAUR  I US: INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit =     Mauritian Rupee, (Mau Re)
US$ 1.0             Mau Rs 15.00
Measures
Metric System
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAD          Computer Assisted Design
CAM          Computer Assisted Management
CEB          Central Electricity Board
DWC          Development Works Committee
EC           European Community
EPZ          Export Processing Zone
HRDP         Human Resource Development Program
EBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ITS          Industrial Training Strategy
ITf C        Industrial Trade Training Center
IVTB         Industrial and Vocational Training Board
IVTC         Industrial and Vocational Training Council
MEDIA        Mauritius Export Development and Investment
Authority
MEPD         Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MEPZA        Mauritius Export Processing Zone
MOE          Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture
MOF          Ministry of Finance
SOE          Statements of Expenditure
TAC          Training Advisory Committee
UNDP         United Nations Development 'ogram
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which visited
Mauritius in June, 1990, comprising Messrs/Mines. John Evans (Senior Management
Specialist and Mission Leader), Richard Durstine (Senior Educator), Christine Allison
(Economist), and Donna McDonald (Administrative Assistant). Mr. Jean-Francois Santarelli,
(Procurement Adviser), the International Labor Organization, participated in the mission.
Mr. John Evans carried out a post-appraisal mission in February/ March, 1991. Mr. Pat
Walker (Implementation Specialist), provided inputs on procurement and disbursements and
Mr. John Middleton reviewed the project design and acted as Lead Adviser. Mmes. Yordi
Seium, Victoria Joseph, Lydia Tabi and Teresa MUlne provided secretarial support in the
preparation of the reports. Mr. Dennis Mahar and Mr. Callisto Madavo are the managing
Division Chief and the Departnent Director, respectively, for the operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS: INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROiE,
STAFF APPAISAL REPOR
TABLE OF C:ON rNTS
LOAN AND PROlECT SUMMARY
I.  INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
A.    The Macroeconomic Context ......        ......... 1
B.    Labor Forze and Emplovment ......         ........ 3
nI.   INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
A.    Education and Training in Mauritius  .....    ..... 5
B     The Government's Strategy ................ 7
C.    The Industrial and Vocational
Training Council            .8
D.    The Industrial and Vocational
Training Board             .9
E.  The World Bank's Role .11
ii.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives and Description .........  .. 12
B.    Institutional Development of IVTB  ....    ...... 13
C.    Detailed Description of the
Project Components .....       ......... 13
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    Project Costs ...........       ............. 17
B.    Project Financing  ........      ............. 19
C.    Pr..curement ...........        ............. 21
D.    Disbursements ...                           .   . 23
E.    Accounts, Audit and Reports .......     .......... 24
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Staus of Preparation  ...................  25
B.    Project Management ...................  25
C.    Environmental Impact ..................  25
D.   Women in Development .................  26
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits and Justification ................. 26
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IALM
1.    Projact Costs by Expenditure Category and
by Component          ........................... 18
2.    Proposed Project Financing Plan ...................... 19
3.    Sununary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ....   ....... 21
4.    Disbursement Categories and Percentages .....    ........... 23
ANNEXE
1.    Basic Data            .....      . .29
Table 1. Selected Economic Indicators .30
Table 2. Contribution of Major Sectors
by Output, Investment and
Employment .31
Table 3. Population, Labor Force and
Employment .32
Table 4. Total Employment by Major
Industrial Sectors .33
Table 5. Structural Changes in the
Economy .34
Table 6. Number of Establishments and
Employment in the EPZ Sector .35
Table 7. Estimated Labor Force for 1988
and 1990 and Projections for
1993 and 1995 .36
Table 8. Estimated Activity Rates for 1988 and
1990 and Projections for 1993
and 1995 .37
2.    Mauritius: Outline of the Education and
Training System ......    ........... 38
3.    The Human Resource Development Program .............. 39
4.    Structure and Organization of IVTB .................... 44
5.    Staffng of IVTB       ...........................  45
6.    Outline of a Business Plan for IV1B  ........ ........... 46
7.    Consultant's Terms of Reference to Prepare for
the IVTB Business Plan prior to Board
Presentation .48
8.    Consultants' Terms of Reference under
TA Component .....                                  49
9.    Indicative Equipment List for the Resource Center.          53
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .......   ............ 55
11.  Project Implementation Plan  ..........    .............. 56
12.  IBRD Supervision Plan  . .......................... 61
13.   Documents in the Project Files .........  .............. 63
MAP IBRD No. 22967: Mauritius



-i-
MAURrITUS: =NU=ARZL ADVOCTLN MIG PIRIECT
Loan and Project SuMMar
Government of Mauritius
Bejefi  y           Industrial and Vocational Training Board
Loan Amut           US$ 5.40 million
ITr                 Standard with 17-year maturity and a grace period of 4 years
Prdect 12escr4tipk   The project will support the development of the Industrial and
Vocatiohal Training Board as the lead agency in organization,
management and provision of industrial and vocational
training in Mauritius. It will in particular provide (i) technical
assistance and training to IVTB to develop training strategies,
identify training needs, plan and implement training programs;
(ii) finance a training Resource Center; (iii) provide technical
ssistance and equipment for specific cross-sectoral tining
programs; and (iv) finance the establishment of a job
classification system.
Benefits            The project will assist the Government to strengthen the
present relatively narrow manufacturing industry base and
open up opportunities for new industries taking advantage of
Mauritius' favourable investment climate and circumstances.
It will provide IVTB with resources to take a lead role in that
process.
Risks               IVTB is a new and untested organization with a wide range of
responsibilities. It requires, for its success, close
collaboration between the public and private sectors. In view
of the time taken to reach the present arrangements,
preparation has been based on consensus between all parties
and the project has gained the support. of the private sector.
A second risk relates to the overall development of the
Mdritian economy which is likely to be more diversified and
its growth less predictable than in the 1980s. IT  has to
respond to the challenges and provide a flexible and rapid
response to the complex and changing technical demands for
training. The proposed organizational procedures and staff
development programs are designed to respond to those
demands.



4--
Summar of Prolet Costs and Financing Pla
(US$ million)
Foreign
as % of
Estimated Costs                     Local    Foreign     Total    Total
(i) Technical assistance
and Training for IVTB:          0.05     0.66       0.71       93
(ii) Resource Center:               0.78     0.68        1.46      47
(iii) Selected Cross Sectoral
Training Programs IL           1.17     2.86        4.03      71
(iv) Job Classification             a        0.35       0.35       100
Total Base Cost                2.00     4.55        6.55      69
Contingencies
(i) Physical                 0.15      0.30       0.45       67
(ii) Price                   0.20      0.80       0.70       71
Total Prjece Costs                  2.35     5..         7.70      69
l/covering supervisory development, quality assurance, maintenance and business studies'
training.



Financing Plan
Local   Foreign    Taxes    Total
(USS millions)
GovemmentllVIB              2.01     0.29      0         2.30
IBRD                        0.34     5.06      0         5.40
Total                       2.35     5.35      0         7.70
Estimated Credit Disbursements by HIRD Fiscal Year (USS million):
EIY     E   EX93 EY9    EX26 EM Y9  FY98
Annual                   0.08  0.86  1.58   1.08  0.75  0.67  0.38
Cumulative               0.08  0.94  2.52   3.60  4.35  5.02  5.40
Economic Rate of Retun: Not applicable.
M: IBRD No.22967; Mauritius.



M=DUrRIAiLAND VClOQTENN
1. WINOL 1&ON3 MM DACLKGRCJ%
A.       IJILMA
1.01     Mauritius has achieved remarkable success in its economic performance over the
last decade. Economic growth has been in excess of 5 percent per annum, since 1985 the
balance-of-payments has been in surplus, the budget deficit has been declining ard in 1988
stood at 2.9 percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio is a modest 13 percent (see Annex 1,
Table 1). Much of this success arises from the strategy of developing a labor intensive
export-oriented manufactring sect;jr based on the Export Processing Zone (EPZ). The
Government established sound policies of stabilization and structural adjustment in the late
1970s and early 1980s and created an environment in which entrepreneurs in the private
sector could take advantage of the up-turn in world trade and benefit from favorable terms of
trade coupled with a strong demand for Mauritian goods. The country has also benefited from
a number of preferential trade arrangements, particularly with the European Community (EC)
and the United States, and a plentiful supply of cheap labor.
1.02     The Bank's most recent economic report 1/ on Mauritius has drawn attention,
however, to the fact that the very same factors that have been the source of success could
become potential constraints. Because of C-e open nature of the economy, Mauritius is highly
susceptible to world events and to changes in levels of international economic activity, which
affect both demand for Mauritian goods as weil as foreign investment. Nearly full
employment now exists (unemployment is less than 3 percent), and the labor force is not
likely to increase at the same rate as hitherto because of the introduction in the early 1960s of
a very successful family planning program. (Projections suggest a growth rate in the working
age population of about 1.2 percent per annum over the next decade.) There have, as a result
of the lack of additional labor, been upward pressures on wages and prices leading to
increasing rates of inflation (inflation reached 13 percent by the end of .989). In addition,
although the enterprises of the EPZ have taken on many women, there are still indications that
the necessary acclimatization to industrial work has not fully taken place. Absenteeism is
high (around 30%), and there u% an increasing tendency for older women to reduce their
participation in the industrial labor force. The financial system may not be adequate for the
next logical steps in the country's continuing development, which will be less predictable than
the growth of the 1980s.
1.03     The Mauritius economy has always been heavily dependent on sugar and one
single export market (EC) where most (80%) of the output goes (see Annex 1, Table 2).
Under the Lome Convention, Mauritius continues to enjoy a speciai relationship with the EC
and has benefitted from a price for its sugar exports which is related to the price guaranteed
to EC beet producers. Prices have been some three times the free world market prices over
1! MAURlllUS: Managing Success (Copyright 1989)



2-I
the last five years. With increasing pressure for budget containment in the Community and
strong internal opposition to the EC agricultural subsidies, such arrangements may come
under review and Mauritius might be negatively affected. Government Is well aware of the
impact this could have on the economy and is therefore exploring non-traditional markets,
developing trade in special sugars, and promoting diversification into other agricultural
products. With regard to the latter, there has been some success with diversification. Much
of the diversification, howeve:, has been achieved by inter-cropping on the sugar estates and
the percentage of land devoted to non-sugar crops has not increased. So far the strategy in
the agriculture sector has been to reduce dependency on imported food stuffs by developing
self-sufficiency in vegetables, onions, and garlic and In staples like potatoes and maize.
1.04     The development of the industrial economy can be traced back to the creation of
the Export Processing Zone in December 1970. The successful growth of EPZ through the
1970s was due to a number of factors: a favorable world economic environmerit, foreign
investors looking for new countries, high world sugar prices providing domestic capital
available for direct investment, and for the creation of new infrastructure, government policies
which have sought to stimulate foreign investment through generous incentives, stable
industrial relations, and an efficient gover'ment mechanism for processing applications for
EPZ certificates. Of equal importance was the abundant supply of a literate and low-wage
labor force. Although initial industrialization was founded on simple technologies and on
products which required a high labor-capital ratio, it was recognized early on that the longer
term sustainability of industrial growth would require a more highly skilled wvorkforce.
1.05     Tle EPZ industries are now the leading sector in the economy. ITey account for
almost 25 percent of GDP, about 60 percent of export earnings, and over 30 percent of
employment (see Annex 1, Table 2). Manufacturing has increasingly been concentrated in
textiles and garments, and few new industries have shown the same potential for growth.
Under the Lome Convention, EPZ exports to the EC enjoy similar preferential arrangements
to those enjoyed by the sugar industry. Although small, exports to the USA also enjoy
favorable treatment from U.S. import quotas. The reliance of the Mauritian economy on
exports from two sectors, sugar and textiles, to mainly one market - the EC - results in a
high degree of vulnerability to changes in the import policies of the EC as well as to adverse
developments in that market. Fluctuations in demand cannot always be predicted and even
small downturns in an economy can lead to reduced demand for textiles and garments as can
for example, changes in fashion and the weather. To reduce this vulnerability, which could
be severe were Europe and the U.S. to move into a recession, Government has been
discouraging the construction of new textile factories and not granting EPZ status to new
companies wishing to work in the textile and gannent sector. Government has been
encouraging diversification away from textiles into specifiC industries now being promoted,
e.g., printing, electronics, and precision machining, tool and die making. Government is also
seeking to improve the quality and guidance it gives to potential entrepreneurs on possible
export markets, quotas, labor availability and skill needs, including training opportunities. It
is also providing advice on the compatibility of new investment projects with other objectives,
such as urban/rural land planning and the environment.
1.06     The third leg of the Mauritius economy is tourism. Tbe strategy has been one of
developing the country as a high-cost resort aimed at the European, mainly French, and South
African markets. In this way, tourists remain for the most part in high class hotels on the
coast, and there has been little effort to attract visitors away from the beaches. This has
significantly reduced the impact of large numbers of visitors on the complex and ethnically



diverse Mauritian population. Even so, the influx of some quarter of a million people a year
is placing strains on the infrastructure, and the roads, electricity supply and telephone services
are stretched. The next steps will be to reduce the dependence on traditional markets and aim
at attracting tourists from other major centers such as Japan and the Middle East as
developments in the infrastructure occur.
1.07     All the major sectors have benefitted over the last decade from the ready
availability of relatively cheap labor which could be taker from the large pool of unemployed
and from the increasing number of women who were entering the labor force for the first
time. The development strategy of encouraging labor intensive industries was clearly correct
and, indeed, the concentration on a major sector, textiles, was appropriate. Future
developments will need to come from two areas. First, improved productivity in existing
industries through improved technology and an increasingly skilled labor force. Second, the
introduction of new ana more capital-intensive industries. Given Mauritius's distance from
major markets, selection of an appropriate export diversification strategy will depend heavily
on good market intelligence and on the production of high quality/low bulk products.
1.08     At the same time, the financial sector, which has come under strain as the
economy has developed, will need to develop further. Recent reforms which have included
interest rate deregulation, the introduction of savings schemes, the opening and reform of the
stock market, and off-shore banking represent important steps forward.
1.09     Overall the Mauritian economy is moving towards a situation where the emphasis
will be on a more diversified manufacturing and service sector, and on a labor force with
increased skills to operate more sophisticated machinery, all leading to increased productivity.
Better, and more clearly defined training, is a major prerequisite for future success.
B.       LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT
1.10     The Mauritian labor force has grown at an annual rate of 3.65 percent over the last
part of the 1980s, at a time when the population grcw at the much slower rate of 1.02 percent
reaching 1.08 million in 1988 (see Annex 1, Table 3). This growth in the labor force can be
attributed to two factors, past rapid population growth and rising labor force participation
rates. The high birth rate of the 1960s was still impacting on the labor force in the 1980s,
while the number of persons over the age of 15 who were working, or were seeking work,
increased from 51 % to 63% of the total population. This is largely attributable to the
significant number of females who joined the work force. Female participation, which grew at
a slow rate in the period from 1972 to 1983, proceeded to nearly double over the next five
years (see Annex 1, Table 4). The outcome was an increase in the labor force from 368,000
in 1984 to 437,000 in 1988. During the same period the male:female ratio in the labor force
changed from 73:27 to 66:34. Since the mid-1980s, unemployment in Mauritius has been
negligible. Current projections show that the growth in the work force in the period 1990-
1993 will not be dramatic with about 25,000 new entrants joining (see Annex 1, Table 7).
The projections also indicate that there will be a general increase in the average age of the
work force, with the proportion below 29 years of age falling from 46% in 1987 to 40% in
1993. These changes have implications for the preparation of training piograms.
1.11     The Mauritian economy can be divided into three broad categories of employment:
agriculture, industry and services. The agricultural sector continued to contract through the



-4-
1980s, and by 1987 employed less than 20 percent of the workforce (see Annex 1, Table 5).
The pattern of contraction was not, however, across the board, and the greatest reduction took
place among Xhu large employers, the sugar estates. Small holder agriculture employment
remained relatively constant. The reductior of employment on the large sugar estates has
resulted from improved productivity and the introduction of increased mechanization in
cultivation and loading cwrations. It will, however, become increasingly difficul to increase
mechanization much further. The large estates are almost all fully mechanized it ading,
and mechanical cutting remains some way off given the nature of the terrain. Small holders
have not taken to mechanization, largely due to the high capital investment needed ad the
ifregular and scattered patterts of their land holdings.
1.12     The indtriaj sejr accounts for more than 40 percent of employment. Of this,
almost two-thirds is employed in the EPZ (89,250 people in 575 enterprises at the end of June
1989). Manufacturing of wearing apparel dominates EPZ employment (85.5% of total EPZ
employment), (rable 6). AMthoug% employment in watch and clock making, optical goods and
jewelry doubled between 1983 and 1988, these sectors account for only about 2% of EPZ
workers. The remainder are employed in a range of industries including fish products, toys,
games and sporting goods. Employment growth in the seg setor averaged 10% between
1983 and 1988. lbis growth has been concentrated in the hotel and catering sectors and in
transport, storage and communications. The public sector share of employment fell from
55% in 1984 to 49% in 1988, mainly as the result of rapid growth elsewhere. Overall public
sector employment is not expected to increase and may in fact fall as new streamlined
procedures ate introduced and outda;ed practices in accounting, auditing and correspondence
are replaced by methods based on modern technology.
1.13     About a quarter of the labor force is a trade union member. The l: -Jr unions are
fragmented in Mauritius and there are over 300 in number. Some unions are very small, often
representing only the workers in a particular enterprise, but others are large. Some of the
unions are members of federations, e.g. The Mauritius Labor Congress, which represents
60,000 workers in industries ranging from the EPZ to local authorities and the docks. Other
federations represent a similar wide range of interests so that there is often no coherent voice
from organized labor. The Government's training strategy seeks to involve the unions but,
given their sheer number, it has not proved possible so far to find a continuing modus
operandi.



-5 -
H.          AL AMVCATIONAL TRAIMNG
A.       1PCATION AND TRAINNG IN
2.31     Mauritius has a well-developed education system whis: has evolved from the
British system. School buildings are generally purpose-built and are well distributed
geographically, so that all children lave relatively easy access to schools. Teachers are well
qualified and trained. The enrolment rate at the primary level is over 100% (due to
repetitions) and at the secondary level 45%. Free education is provided for six years at the
primary level, five years at the secondary level and for two years at the post-secondary level.
Free tertiary education was re-introduced in 1988 after fees had been charged from 1982.
Promotion through grades I-V is virtually automatic, but repetitions are heavy at grade VI as
children seek to pass the Certificate of Primary Education. The pass rate is about 50% and
promotion to the secondary level is dependent on a pass.
2.02      rimary Education. In 1987 there were 273 ;zrimary schools for a school
population of around 138,000. 80% of the schools were administered by Government and
17% were managed by private, mainly religious, bodies with full financial support from
Government. Six small schools were privately managed and funded. About half the schools
have between 200 and 600 pupils, with an average of 500, but there are nine large schools in
the urban areas of Port Louis and Plaines Wilhems with more than 1,400 pupils in each.
2.03     Secondary Education. Unlike primary education, where government schools are a
majority, secondary education is dominated by 101 private schools out of a total of 127. Tle
private sectox :nvers 70,000 pupils against the Government's 16,000 pupils. The Government
schools prepare students for the Secondary School Certificate, and the post-Secondary Higher
School Certificate, but only 20 of the private schools prepare students for the higher
examination. Schools are generally larger than those at the primary lovel with five schools
having more than 1,500 pupils.
2.04     Tertia  Educaio. The University of Mauritius is the most important institution
for the provision of tertiary education, and it offers a wide range of degree and certificate
courses in a number of subjects. It currently caters for a student population of around 850.
The Mauritius Institute of Education offers, on demand, postgraduate training in education
and the Mahatma Gandhi Institute is responsible for the promotion of arts and culture.
2.05     Technical Training. The first Industrial Trade Training Center (ITTC), at Beau
Basin, was set up in 1967 with support from the Intemational Labor Organization (ILO), and
was funded from the United Nations Fund for Technical Assistance. A second llfC was set
up at Piton with support from the Indian Government. In the late 1970s, the Lycee
Polytechnique, based on the French model, was established with French financial assistance.
The lTICs provide basic level vocational training in a number of areas including mechanical
engineering, electrical installation, welding, carpentry and other trade skills. Standards are
not high and students do not find it easy to get jobs after completing courses. Alternatively,in
some areas of training, masonry and concrete work for example, the current building boom
means that potential students can earn high wages as laborers and pick up basic skills through



- 6 -
on-th-job training. The facilities at the rITCs have been handed over to the IVTB and plans
are in hand to both upgrade and re-equip the workshops and to reevaluate the training
prograus offered. It is govermment policy to retain ownership of these, and other facilities
used by IVTB; actual legal and financial detailed arrangements are being worked out. The
Lycee offers high quality training over three to four years, with the initial year being
academic before students move on to practical aiigineering-related training. Full utilization of
the Lycee Is inhibited by its location in a remote area, making access difficult. Five
Handicraft Centers have been set up for persons between the ages of 15 and 19 concentrating
on leather work, dress making, basket making, and embroidery. They do not train students
for factory-type work.
2.06     Abffcrmbie Vo-_Tec. The Manpower Planning and Training Division of the
Ministy of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD), has used an approach of an
integrated training package for training in the footwear sector. This approach has the
following elements: (i) planning the layout of a facility; (ii) supplying all the necessary
teaching materials including a basic library and consumables; (iii) supplying all the teaching
equipment; (iv) developing and adapting the courses to be taught; (v) supplying all the
teaching personnel for a specified period; (vi) training counterparts; (vii) screening and
selecting applicants, (viii) seting ard conducting examinations; and, (ix) maintaining and
repairing equipment. Bell Villafe Vo-Tech. A course in fashion and design has been held
and a consultant's report on the traning needs of the textile and garment industries is being
reviewed.
2.07     Other GomentI Training. Many of the government ministries provide technical
training for new entrants and later career training. The Mauritius Marine Authority, the
Central Electricity Board and the Development Works Committee, for example, all provide
staff training. There has been a recent decision that IVTB should become responsible for civil
service training but this has not yet been implemented and is being recnsidered.
2.08     Erjab   Training Institufons. There are a large number of unregistered training
institutions offering minimal levels of training largely in response to student demand. Most
charge fees which in no way relate to the low quality of inputs provided. One of the
except'ons is the Saint Gabriel Technical College which offers courses similar to those at the
Lycee.
2.09     TraininkProblems. Two fundamental factors hamper the government technical
training institutions from operating efficiently - the shortage of trained teachers and the lack of
equipment and teaching materials. With the industrial sector developing, there is an
escalating demand for technical traning at the very time that there is increasing demand from
the factories for technicians. Trainers tend to move towards industry where wages are higher
than in the public sector. The shortage of staff makes it difficult to use facilities efficiently
and seems to preclude evening and weekend - ourses. Salaries at the government institutes are
low and the transfer of the ITTCs to IVTB will enable new salary structures to be determined
and paid, thus offering an opporturity to retain higher skilled and qualified trainers.
Equipment is often antiquated and not related o machinery likely to be encountered at work,
and there are virtually no teaching materials.



-7 -
B.   THE GO VNENT'S SMATEGY
2.10     The Govermnent, both within the context of the existing education system and
through creation of the Industrial and Vocational Training Board (IVTB), has developed a
broad strategy towards industrial and vocational training. As was stated in an earlier chapter,
an industrial training strategy was developed and shared with industry, commerce, the labor
unions and many other interested parties at a conference held in March 1989. Overall, the
Government's strategy has many new components:
-  Establishment of Continuing Education Units (CEUs), in the existing school
network aimed at providing self paced learning opportunities for the non-
academically oriented and for adults who seek self improvement;
-  CEUs would be awarded un the basis of examinations and would be developed
in the form of modu!es based on experience of technical training in other parts
of the system:
Mauritius College of the Air will support the CEU program using distance
learning techniques;
-  Renewed efforts will be made to increase the technical content of secondary
education;
- the lTCs will be re-equipped and modernized; an additional ITMC will be
built in the eastern or southern part of the Island. Training at the ITTCs will
lead to nationally recognized certificates issued under the aegis of the
Mauritius Examinations Syndicate;
-  The Lycee will be up-graded to an Institute of Technology and will become
one of the institutions surrounding and supporting the University of Mauritius;
- A training partnership approach will be developed with the manufacturing
industrial base and the service sector working with Government; and
- Trainees attending registered training institutions will be awarded nationally
recognized certificates.
2.11     Thus the Government, worldng with industry, has the s-trategy of human resource
development which will enable the country to "leap-frog' over some intermediate stages of
industrial and technological development.
2.12     The development of the Industrial Training Strategy led to preparadon of a large
number of training projects under the umbrella of a Human Resources Development Program
(HRDP). The HRDP was brought together for a Donors' Meeting in Geneva in March 1990.



-8 -
2.13     The HRDP, which was developed by MEPD with iputs from 14 ministries,
contaied some 60 training proposals with an esdmated total cost of around US$ 120.0
milion and had an extenal funding requirement of USS 105.5 million, (88% of the ptOgram
cost). A summary of the componeats of the HRDP is given in Annex 3. The HRDP was
circulated to a wide range of doos prior to the Donors' Meeting in Geneva, in March 1990,
and staff of MEPD and the IVTB paid visits to a number of Asian and European counties
prior to the Domrs' Meeting to generate interest in, and support for, the Program.
Gealy, reaction to the overall program before the Donors' Meeti  was that it raised five
issues. These were: (i) the sheer size of the program, at around USS 120 milion, in relation
to the coutry's economy; (il) the conflicts between short- and long-tem objectives; (iii) the
scatterg of appaently overlapping or similar training between ministries; (iv) the lack of any
indication of priorities; and, (v) the absence of any information on recurrent cost finaing.
These issues arose because, whilst originally the donors' conference was conceived wihn the
context of Industrial taining, a number of minstries saw the conference as an opporunity to
seek funding for their own projects. The total package thus lacked coherency.
2.14     The program actually peented to the Donors' Meetng in March, 1990 was
substantlly modified and reduced from 60 projects to 25 and from US$ 120.0 million to
US$ 71.0 million and the funding sought was US$ 63.0 million (89% of the revised program
co). Annex 3 compares the overall program with the core program. As a result of the
reduction in size of the overall program and the reduction in the number of projects, the
HRDP with respect to indus    training regained its proper thr  and the concerns t  the
onignal package raised were largely eliminated.
2.15     Donors reviewed the program at the Geneva meeting and interest in the various
components were expressed. A summary of the various inter  expressed in Geneva is also
given in Annex 3.
C.    WE IDUSMALM AND VOCATTONAL TRAINNGCONI
2.16     The IndustriaMl and Vocational Training Act of Aprfl, 1988 set up an Industi and
Vocaonal Traning Board (IVaB) with an Industral and Vocational Training Council VTC)
which governs it. he IVTC has a membership of twelve. It is chaired by the Mnister of
Economic Planning and Development and has a Vice-Chairman from the private sedor,
appointed by the Pdme Minister in consltation with the Mauritius Employers Federation.
The remaining member are drawn equaly from the public and private sectors. The public
sector representves come from the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministries of Youth and
Sports and Tourism, of Education, Arts and Culture, of Industry and Industial Technology
and of Labor and Industrl Relations, Woman's Rights and Family Affais. The five private
sector members are appointed by the Prime Minister. In addition the Council may co-opt up
to five more non-voti  members. The Council is required to meet once a month. At this
stage there are no representatives of organized labor on the Council. There are however
some 300 unions in Mauritius and several loose and changing federations of those unions
which make it difficult to sdect additional numbers who represent large sections of the
workers. So far no conss has been reached on the best way of ensuring that workers, the
main beneficiaries of training, would be brought into the council.



-9-
D.    THE INDUSTRIAL AND VOC                   IRANB
2.17     The decision to set up an organization responsible for technical training dates back
to the mid-1970s when it was recognized that the education system in Mauritius was too
academically oriented and did not respond to the manpower needs of the country's developing
industrial base. The concept was slow to develop. Parents regarded technical education as
less important than academic subjects, and industries, based on labor-intensive low technology
processes, were doing most of the training 'on-the-job". With the decline in unemployment
and a developing shortage of skilled labor it became clear that a major constraint to further
sustained growth was the lack of a well-trained labor force.
2.18     Thus IVTB was set up with four objectives:*
-   to advise the Prime Minister on matters related to training;
-   to monitor the needs for training in consultation with the relevant authorities;
-   to administer, control and operate training schemes; and
-   to provide for, promote, assist in and regulate the training or apprenticeship of
persons who are, or will be, employed in the commercial, technical or
vocational fields.
I The Industrial and Vocational Training Act, 1988: Act No 8 of 1988 dated April 15, 1988.
2.19     More importantly IVTB is conceived as a joint venture between the private and the
public sector with three roles; firstly, to support, encourage, help and finance training in the
private sector in major established existing industries, namely textiles; secondly, to provide a
locus for training for the smaller sub-sectors of the industrial and services sectors: and thirdly
to provide the drive and impetus to training for new and emerging industries. Over-arching
all three roles is the fundamental concept that all training should be done as a result of
demand from the private sector. Longer term it is possible that the major sub-sectors will
take on responsibility directly for establishing and financing their own training institutions;
such might be the outcome of the Hotels and Catering School, now being re-built and re-
equipped with French assistance. The basis on which IVTB has been set up also accords with
the World Bank's emerging policy on industrial and vocational training which is based on
extensive review and analysis of "best practices" world-wide.
2.20     A Director has been appointed and organization structure set in place, (see Annex
4). Senior staff have been recruited and are in post and recruitment is proceeding. The
structure shows six divisions: (i) Projects and Planning Division. This division is responsible
broadly for the identification of training needs and the elaboration, evaluation, costing and
monitoring of training projects. This involves also an analysis of economic trends and changes
in the labor market; (ii) Implementation Division. Once training needs have been identified,
this division works out the training plans which can best satisfy the needs. Decisions are



- 10-
made on whether existing resources can be used, whether the training should be industry or
institution based. The development of appropriate curricula and the identification of
equipment Is also determined. This division is also responsible for establishing pre-
vocational training; (iii) Registration and Trade Testing Division. The Act provides that all
training institutions should be registered with IVTB. This registration will provide a data
bank on institutions and trainers for different occupations. This registration system is already
beginning to bring some order to an area where there are a large number of private
institutions which are not providing high quality training. In addition the division has
designed and set up a system of nationally recognized trade testing and certification as part of
a strategy to recognize competence. This is now operational; (iv) Evaluation and Curriculum
Division. This division designs, develops, evaluates and approves training programs which
then allow employers to receive grants and rebates against their payment of the training levy.
The curricula, competence of trainers and pedagogical method are the main elements being
evaluated; (v) Finance Division and Grants Division. This is responsible for the Board's
budgets and accounts and for paying grants approved by the Evaluation and Curriculum
Development Division; and, (vi) Administration Division. These last two divisions provide
support to the operational divisions of IVTB. A staffing table for IVTB is given in Annex 5.
2.21     IVTB has set up Training Advisory Committees (TACs) with the following terms
of reference:
- to serve as liaison and provide an avenue of communication and feedback
between commerce and industry and IVTB;
- to examine and review the programs and facilities for training provided by
IVTB and by commerce and industry and to advise on how training of persons
for employment can best be provided;
- to classify jobs in main vocational areas and recommend to IVTB the
standards for certification; and
- to advise on the development of curricula at different levels for various
vocations.
2.22     Advisory Committees have been set up for thirteen sectors; for example,
information technology; precision machinery; tool and die; textiles industry; plastics industry;
footwear; jewelry; building construction and civil works; management; and hotels and
catering. The public and private sectors are represented on these committees.
2.23     As a first step Government held a national seminar in April 1989 to identify
priority areas for training program development. Training priorities were categorized by the
IVTB in two ways: existing industries which are important to the economy, and up-coming
industries or those targeted as part of the Government's strategy as future growth industries.
The first category:
-    Textiles and garments,
-    Hotels and catering,
-    Agro-industries and agriculture, and
-    Construction.



- 11 
The second category was made up of:
-    Electronics,
-    Plastic industries,
-    Information technology,
-    Printing,
-    Jewelry,
-    Precision machining, tool and die, and
-    Footwear and leather craft.
Since that seminar it has also been recognized that offshore banking, the opening of the stock
market and the possibility of an offshore company operation will require new and further
skills.
2.24     IVTB is currently funded in four ways: (i) through a training levy set by the Prime
Minister after consultation with IVTC; (ii) through a government grant for recurrent
expenditures; (iii) through a government grant for capital investments; and, (iv) through
government funding for all the costs of pre-vocational training. The training levy is currently
set at 1% of basic payroll (ie, excluding overtime), on all establishments. Collection is
automatic at source through the National Pension Fund. A meeting in February, 1991, of
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the IVTC and the Director of IVTB reviewed the
financing of IVTB. As a result it was agreed that the Government will contribute 85% of
IVTB's capital investments and will share IVTB's recurrent costs, except for pre-vocational
training on a matching basis.
E.    THE WORLD AMNK'S ROLE
2.25     The World Bank's country assistance strategy supports three areas of the Mauritian
economy, the environment, infrastructure and human resource development. Thus the Bank
gives high priority to the need to develop a skilled and flexible labor force capable of being
trained and retrained to meet the needs of a growing and diversifying manufacturing and
service based economy. This diversification cannot be achieved without substantial support
for training as Mauritius seeks to move away from an industrial manufacturing based on
relatively low skill levels and relatively unsophisticated machinery and equipment.
2.26     Over the last four years the Bank has had an active dialogue on the issue of
industrial and vocational training with the Government and private sector. The Bank has
taken an active role in assessing the preparation of the Government's training strategy through
technical assistance in its preparation and through support to a National Seminar, in 1989,
which brought together representatives of Government, the private sector, academia, the labor
unions and the Chambers of Commerce and Industry and of Agriculture to discuss and review
the Industrial Training Strategy. The World Bank has also taken an active role in the
preparation for, and participated in, the Donors' Meeting held in March, 1990 in Geneva.
Overall there has been a strong partnership with Government from the identification of the
need to support this area of human resource development and through the preparation of the
specific proposed investments.



-12 -
2.27     Historically, the World Bank has financed two education projects in Mv1auritius in
the amount of USS 22.2 million. The Firs Edgcation Proect of USS 7.0 million was signed
in 1974 and was completed in 1980. This project was aimed at expanding and improving the
quality of secondary school facilities and increasing access for urban and rural poor to
secondary education. Some of the project's objectives were achieved. New curricula and text
books were produced, teachers were trained and re-trained in practical and scientific subjects.
On the other hand not all the objectives were achieved. Enrollments in project institutions
were below expectations and there were problems in equipment installation.
2.28     The Second Education Project was signed in 1978 and completed in June, 1985, in
the amount of US$ 15.2 million, and was aimed at institution building in the Ministry of
Education, improving the quality of primary teacher training and building and equipping
junior secondary schools. The project also included a componet X establish a Central
Training Office (CTO), the precursor of the IVTB. The project was amended in 1983 and
concentrated on primary school rehabilitation, curriculum development and providing
educational Lacilities on the island of Rodrigues. The CTO was established but never became
operational.
2.29     Education Sct Work. As part of the Bank's on-going dialogue with the
Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture, an Education sector policy review was completed in
1985. The report drew attention to the conflict that exists between the demands of a country
with a developing industrial base, and hence a need for practically trained workers and a
society with deeply ingrained academic traditions. The report recommended the strengthening
of manpower planning and an increased emphasis on industrial and vocational training through
the Central Training Office.
2.30     Currently the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture is preparing an Education
Sector Master Plan with the support of UNESCO consultants, after initial inputs by Bank staff
had identified the key issues which had to be addressed. In December, 1990, the Prime
Minister asked the World Bank to take a leading role in mobilizing and coordinating external
resources to implement the Plan. The Bank has responded positively and will follow up once
the Master Plan preparation is complete and investment components have been identified.
III. TMHEfPROPOSh PROJECT
A.        PROJECT OBlECTIVES AND DESCRIPIION
3.01     The pmoposed project has, as its main objective, the building of institutional
capacity within IVTB to make it the leading center ot training in Mauritius. Three supporting
objectives are, (i) to provide selected technical assistance and training for the staff of IVTB to
create and build up the Board's institutional capacity, (ii) to provide opportunities for trainers
throughout Mauritius to have access to modern training methods and materials through the
establishment of a training Resource Center, (iii) to provide training in specific sectors and
industrial skills. In addition technical assistance and training would be provided to establish a
job classification system. The project has been designed to be, and is, free-standing within the
country's overall human resource development strategy which is being supported by other
donors and lenders, (see Annex 3).



- 13 -
B.       INSIITU ONAL DEVELOPMENT OF IVTB
3.02     lhe IVTB is a relatively newly created and untested institution which needs
comprehensive support to develop and carry out its role as the lead training agency. There is
first of all the requirement to provide it with the institutional and operational capacity to
implement the industrial training strategy established by Government in 1988. In addition,
the IV1B is being called upon for a number of related training tasks, eg, pre-vocational
training, which place severe burdens on its nascent operational capacities. Thus it will
require assistance both to prepare an overall training strategy and to establish effective
priorities for execution of that strategy, which must link the needs of the private sector for
trainad workers with the training systems existing or being put in place. On that basis, the
IVTB must develop an organizational capacity for operation that supports the total training
strategy. The proposed project would therefore assist the Board to accomplish its mission by
providing technical assistance, training, and the ability to respond flexibly to the demands for
training which will be placed upon it. The staffing of the IVTB must be strengthened through
recruitment of highly qualified personnel and their training to deal effectively with the special
problems they will face, including planning, management, monitoring and evaluation of the
training program (see Annex 5).
C.    DhTAIE DESCRIlON OF THE EROECOMPONENTS
Establishment of the IVTB
3.03     The proposed project would have as its principal aim provision of the IVTB with
the capabilities it needs to operate effectively. These consist primarily of: (i) institutional
development support in the form of technical assistance and training to help IVTB through its
initial period of operation; (ii) a resource center for the acquisition, processing and
dissemination of occupational information and training techniques and advances; and, (iv)
uport for specific cross-sectoral training programs through the provision of equipment,
training and technical assistance, and (iv) a job classification scheme to be developed jointly
by MEPD, IVTB and the Ministry of Employment.
3.04     Institutional Development. The IVTB as presently constituted is both ill-equipped
and understaffed to carry out the wide variety of tasks which are assigned to it. These
include, inter alia, gathering and analysis of technical information, formulation of long-term
training strategies, management of the training levy and grant systems, definition and
sponsorship of individual training programs, registration of training establishments, actual
operation of some training programs, and arrangement for the necessary physical facilities,
equipment and staff. With only some 21 senior staff at present, the Board and its
management are severely overloaded. The proposed growth to around 36 professional staff is
likely to Improve the capacity of IVTB but absorbing the new staff may prove difficult.
Nevertheless, the needs are pressing, and there is little choice but to proceed.
3.05     It is the intention of the IVTB management to meet the operational challenges it
faces by a combined program of technical assistance and training. The technical assistance, in
the form of short-term specialist services, would serve a three-fold role. Firstly by providing



- 14 -
direct technical support and training for counteipart local staff in the operational divisions of
IVTB - Projects and Planning, Implementation and Finance and Grants Divisions. In this way
the Board will be able to build itself up by hiring capable but generally inexperienced staff.
Though that is not the theoretically optimal course, there is little alternative in the face of the
shortages posed by the full-employment economy of Mauritius and the shortage of
experienced trainers. Secondly, short-term technical experts would provide expertise in
selected specialized training areas which could include curriculum design, training levy
management and monitoring and evaluation techniques. Thirdly, the specialists and technical
assistance advisers would carry out the initial training needs analyses, curriculum design and
course preparation, including the preparation of equipment lists for the cross sectoral training
programs (see paragraph 3.08). The institutional development program would be supported
under the proposed project with 40 staff months of technical assistance and training for up to
five senior staff overseas for 60 staff months with some five short-term study tours for other
senior staff. Annex 8 contains terms of reference for the consultants and sets out the basic
principles for the study tours. The total estimated base cost is US$ 0.71 million.
Simultaneously, locally available expertise in training would continue to be tapped through
established training advisory committees in selected occupational sectors.
3.06     Training would be carried out in a number of countries through both formal
courses and attachments to similar, established organizations in, for example, Singapore,
Korea and Japan, and to international organizations such as ILO and UNIDO. In-house
training programs would also be established, drawing on the technical assistance personnel as
appropriate, to support the attachments and covering fields such as: computer programming
and operation; data processing and management; manpower planning, forecasting and
analysis; planning and management of technical and vocational training; project and program
evaluation; trade testing design, application and implementation; technical curricula design;
and general management. In order to prepare for initiation of all aspects of the IVTB
institutional development program as promptly as is feasible. IVTB submitted at negotiations:
(i) a business plan for the next two years; (ii) a medium-term financial plan; and (ii; separate
budgets for IVTB's core activities and pre- ocational training responsibilities. A suggested
outline of the Business Plan is attached as Annex 6, as are terms of reference for the
consultant to prepare it (Annex 7). These terms of reference were drafted during the
appraisal mission and agreed by a sub-committee of IVTC in August 1990. At negotiations.
Government confirmed that a consultant was being appointed to prepare the business plan.
financial plan and budgets.
3.07     Resource Center. Though closely integrated with the institutional development of
the IVTB, the resource center has a distinct role which qualifies it for separate consideration.
Its role would relate both to development of the IVTB staff and to the provision of
information for the use of others in the private sector charged with implementation of
industrial and vocational training in Mauritius. The center would be supplied with: (i)
furniture and fittings; (ii) books, periodicals, journals, tapes and films related to training in
general and particularly in Mauritius. The project would also finance subscriptions to
international data bases concerned with training; and, (iii) equipment to create, manufacture
and reproduce training aids, audio-visual aids and other training materials with consumables
for the first five years of operation; (iv) technical assistance to design the center and prepare
the equipment lists, select the library materials and train the staff; and, (v) in order to initiate
its operations effectively, training for the key staff of the resource center would be provided.
The entire component would encail a base cost of US$1.46 million. Annex 9 gives an
indicative equipment list. During the preparation of the proposed project IVTB considered a



- 15 -
number of options with respect to the physical facilities it needed and has finally determined
that, at this stage, the most cost effective solution lies in renovating and up-grading existing
facilities. An estimated cost of USS 0.42 million has been included in the project base costs
to cover rehabilitation of the facilities at Ebene for the Resource Center. One of the functions
of the consultant, appointed under the project, wUI be to work with staff of IVTB to
determine more accurate costs and the most cost effective way of establishing the Resources
Center.
3.08     Support to Selected Cross Sectoral Training Courses. The training programs to be
carried out under the broad mandate of the IVTB will be many and varied, and will range
from those operated by individual industries to some that are undertaken by the Board itself.
Similarly, the resources available for the,e courses will vary widely. It is therefore
impossible to specify with assurance what those courses will be or what assistance they will
require. Their scope and duration will vary widely. The industries which they cover may
include, but need not be limited to, textiles, hotels and catering, electronics, jewelry,
precision machinery and printing. In addition, there are some trades which span several
industries for which training is required. These include supervisory skills, quality assurance,
plant and equipment maintenance skills, and business studies, as are outlined briefly below.
3.09     All sectors of the economy suffer from a serious shortage of first line supervisors.
Most are promoted from the ranks of the shop floor, often because they are the most
productive workers, but they may lack the necessary skills of communication and leadership.
In addition they require constant refresher courses in techniques of human, materials and
resources management. In many industries such training has been found to have a significant
impact on increasing productivity and reducing absenteeism, a serious problem today.
Courses in supervisory skills will require a significant investment in teaching materials and
visual aids as well as preparation of case studies related to the Mauritian situation. As labor
becomes more skilled and products more complex, and the added value increases, quaity
assurance becomes a vital factor in maintaining markets and sales. Setting up and achieving
the right quality standard for a product or service optimizes the use of resources, minimizes
waste, improves competitiveness and maximizes long-term profitability. Maintenance skills in
the work force are limited, and concepts such as planned maintenance are litte known or
used. Maintenance skills training would concentrate on mechanical, electronic and electrical
maintenance, covering levels of expertise ranging from basic fitting through more complex
maintenance skills to fully fledged maintenance engineering.
3.10     Finally there is need in the industrial and commercial sectors for training in
business stdies. The emphasis would again be on the curricula, teaching materials and
technical expertise for a wide range of industrial and commercial activities including basic
accounting, sales office management, marketing, shipping and customs clearance. The
spectacular growth of the service sectors over the last four years and the expected expansion
in offshore banking and company work will lead to increasing demand for clerical skills in
areas not currently available. A condition of disbursement would be that the training
programs. program objectives and corresponding Droposed lists of equlpment for the above
four training programs would be submitted to the Bank for review and arval (see
pamguh 7.02(i).
3.11     In view of the range and uncertainty of need for both specific sectors and more
general trades, it is appropriate that the proposed project take a flexible approach to the
support of individual training programs. In this role, it would be a source of last resort for



- 16 -
the provision of equipment, materials, instructional services and operational support. An
amount of USS 4.03 million would be set aside in the proposed project for these purposes.
The fimds would in each case be used after: (i) IVTB has determined the need for such a
course in terms of number of trainees and length and level of training; (ii) it has then
formulated a specific and costed proposal for such a course; (iii) the course has been reviewed
and agreed to by the appropriate training advisory cwmmittee; and, (iv) the Bank has reviewed
and agreed to the resulting plans. As in the case of the Resource Center, the rebabilitation
and up-grading of facilities for cross sectoral training will be financed entirely by the
Government at an estimated cost of USS 0.73 million.
3.12     Training Infonnation Inf= eart     A system of job classification will be funded
under the project. Such a system seeks to break out jobs into different main categories, e.g.,
agricuitural, industrial, service, and then to further sub-divide the main categories into sub-
categories. Such a system allows for more accurate labor forecast modelling, training needs
identification on a consistent basis and labor market changes. The base cost of this
component is estimated at S$ 0.35 million.
3.13.    Terms of Reference for Consultants and ehnical Exper. Terms of reference
have been dtafted for the three key consultants for IVTB. The drafts are attached as Annex
7. it is intended that terms of reference for the specialist consultants and for the technical
assistance trainers for cross sectoral training courses should be drafted jointly by the three
institutional development consultants working with the operational divisions of IVTB and the
staff of IVTB.



- 17 -
IV. EUQH= CO MAM EINANG
A.    YRO    S
4.01     Total project costs are estimated at US$ 7.70 mUllion, of which the World Bank
would finance USS 5.40 million. Ihe project has been costed over a seven-year period to
conform to the World Bank's standard profile for Mauritius, but it is possible that
disbursements will proceed at a faster rate given the possibility that major purchases of
equipment could be advanced, together with the preparation of detailed training programs.
Base costs are calculated at USS 6.55 million (85%), and price and physical contingencies at
USS 1.15 million (15%). Project costs are estimated at May 1991 prices. Price
contingencies for foreign exchange expenditures include 3.4% for 1992 through 1998; price
contingencies for local expenditures are included at 119% for 1992, 10% for 1993, 9% for
1994, 8% for 1995 and 7% for 1996 through 1998. Taxes and duties are excluded from the
project costs since, under the terms of the Act setting up IVTB (Act No. 8 of 1988 dated 15
April, 1988), IVTB is exempt from payment of all charges, duties, fees, rates and taxes.
Technical assistance accounts for 12% of base costs, training 9%, equipment 48% and other
inputs (furniture, library materials and recurrent costs), 13%. Civil works, the rehabilitation
and upgrading of faciities at Ebene, which will be funded entirely by Government, will
represent 18% of the project costs.



- 18-
4.02     Project costs are summarized In Table 1 below:-
Table I
(US$ million)
Local       Foreign      Total Foreign as %
of Total
(i) IVTB Institutional Dev't.
Technical Asst.   0.05       0.40         0.45   90
Training        0            0.20         0.20  100
Study Tours     0            0.06         0.06  100
(ii) Resource Center
Tecinical Ass't   0.01       0.07         0.08   88
Training        0.07         0            0.07    0
Equipment       0.28         0.61         0.89   69
Rehabilitation  0.42         0            0.42    0
(iii) Cross Sectoral Training
Technical Ass't   0.02       0.18         0.20   90
Training        0            0.10         0.10  100
Equipment       0.42         2.31         2.73   85
Training Support
for Research    0            0.27         0.27   100
Rehabilitation  0.73         0            0.73    0
(iv) Training Information
Infrastructure
Technical Ass't   0          0.05         0.05  100
Training        0            0.20         0.20  100
Equipment       0            0.10         0.10  100
Total Base Costs     2.00         4.55         6.55   69
Contingencies
(i) Physical    0.15         0.30         0.45   67
(li) Price      0.20         0.50         0.70   71
Total                2.35         5.s5         7.70   69



- 19 -
B.       PRL.IE   FINANCING
4.03     The project flnancing plan is set out below:-
Table 2
INDUSI RAL AnD VOCASIIL TRAINI NG=WM1C
tRC)J=C F^INACNG ELA
(USS million)
Expenditure Categories      Total Base      Government      World Bank    Percentage
Costs                                     World Bank
Investment
(i) IVTB Institutional Dev't
Technical Assistance  0.45            0.05            0.40         89
Training              0.20            0               0.20        100
Study Tours           0.06            0               0.06        100
(ii) Resource Center
Technical Assitance   0.08            0.01           0.07         87
Training              0.07            0              0.07         100
Furniture and Fittings    0.10        0.03           0.07         70
Library Materials     0.20            0.06           0.14         70
Equipment             0.22            0.07           0.15         68
Civil Works           0.42            0.42           0            0
(iii) Cross Sectoral Training
Technical Assistance  0.20            0.02           0.18         90
Training              0.10            0              0.10         100
Equipment             2.56            0.38           2.18         85
Research              0.27            0              0.27         100
Civil Works           0.73            0.73           0            0
(iv) Training Information
Infrastructure
Technical Assistance  0.05            0              0.05         1oo
Training              0.20            0              0.20         100
Equipment             0.10            0              0.10         100



- 20 -
Table 2 (cont'd)
INDUSIRI AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROQECr
MM= FINAMIG PLAN
(USS mitlions)
Expenditure Categories             Total Base   Government   World Bank  Percentage
Costs                                  World Bank
Recurrent
(i) Resource Center
Consumables                  0.22        0.07          0.15          45
Maintenance                  0.15        0.05          0.10          59
Oii) Cross Sectoral Training
Maintenance                  0.17        0.05          0.12          70
Total Base Costs                   6.55        1.94          4.61          70
Total Contingencies               L15          03            2172          69
Total Project Costs                7.7i        2.30          5.40          70
4.04    Under arrangements recently worked cait, the Government and IVTB will share costs on the
following basis, except for pre-vocational -aininy (see paragraph 4.05):-
Capital Investment. 'he Government vE n1 fund 85% and IVTB the balance from the training levy;
Recurrent Costs. The Government and A- -B, through the training levy, will fund recurrent costs
on a 50:50 basis.
4.05    Pre-vocational training will bte fully funded by Government.



-21-
C. 
4.06    Procurement arangements for items financed by IBRD are ummarized below.
Table a
INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element                     Procurement Method          Total
Cost
ICB      LCB    Other      N.A.
1.  !Civil Worh                                1.33              1.33
1.1 Civil Works                             (0.00)             (0.00)
2.   Goods
2.1  Equipment              2.75     0.50    0.20              3.45
(2.75)   (0.25)  (0.10)            (3.10)
2.2 Furniture&                       0.12                      0.12
Fittings                         (0.09)                    (0.09)
2.3 Library Books           0.24                               0.24
& Periodicals          (0.19)                              (0.19)
2.4 Materials &             0.14             0.13*             0.27
Supplies               (0.11)           (0.11)             (0.22)
3.   Technical Assistance                     0.86+              0.86
3.1 (Individuals & Fims)                    (0.77)             (0.77)
4.   Miscellaneous
4.1  Overseas                                         0.55     0.55
Training                                         (0.55)   (0.55)
4.2 Local                                             0.07     0.07
Training
4.3 Study Tours                                       0.07     0.07
(0.07)   (0.07)
4.4 Trng' Support                                     0.32     0.32
Research                                          (0.32)   (0.32)
4.5  Other Costs                                      0.42     0.42
(0.09)   (0.09)
TOTAL               3.13     0.62     2.52    1.43     7.70
(3.05)   (0.34)   (0.98)  (1.03)   (5.40)
NM: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IBRD.
LCB procedures followed in Mauritius were examined and found to be acceptable.
Threshold value for prior review for procurement of goods has been set at $100,000.
lnternational or local shopping with a minimm of three bids.
+Selection of consulta  will be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants of August, 1981 and all contracts are subject to prior review.



- 22 -
4.07    Procurement of all Bank-funded goods and services under the project and the review of
procurement documents would be done in accorda. ce with Bank Guidelines (issued May 1985). Bank sample
documents for procurement of goods would be used under ICB procurement. In order to increase the capacity
and capability in procurement, technical assistance will be provided as described under para 3.03. An
accountant consultant in the Finance and Grants Division of the IVTB would, working with the procurement
officer, establish systems in order to prepare bidding documents, evaluate bids and finalize contracts. The
consultant would also provide the necessary training to local staff for these tasks to be undertaken locally after
his period of tenure.
4.08    The Government of Mauritius proposes to undertake some rehabilitation and upgrading of the
existing buildings at Ebene to establish the Resource Center and facilities for cross sectoral training. The
estimated base cost of the work is US$ 1.15 million which will be financed entirely from government
resources. Detailed costs for the civil works will be prepared by consultants appointed under the project after
loan effectiveness. Tender documentation and bidding procedures to be followed would be in accordance
with Government Local Competitive Bidding Procedures which have been reviewed and found acceptable.
4.09    Procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would follow Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Procedures for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) have been reviewed and will include public bid
opening, clear evaluation criteria and local advertising and the award shall be made to "ie lowest evaluated
responsive bidder.
4.10     a. Training equipment, furniture and fittings and supplies (computers, cameras, videos,etc)
would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages of US$100,000 or more, and procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Contracts for other
equipment, such as some office equipment (furniture, air conditioners, stationary, etc), each estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$0.25 million would be awarded under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in which foreign suppliers are eligible to participate. Smaller contracts
not exceeding US$25,000 each and totalling not more than US$100,000 would be procured through
international or local shopping based on price quotations from at least three suppliers. LCB contracts would
be advertized locally and subject to the following: (i) bids are to be opened in public; (ii) evaluation criteria
are to be specific; and (iii) awards are to be made to the lowest competitive bidder.
4.11    Technical Assistance, Training and Studies. The Technical Assistance requirements would be
provided by firms and individual consultants as outlined in Annex 8. Selection procedures for all consultants
(firms and individuals) would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). All consultant terms of reference,
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank and subject to
review before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated and signed. Procedures in consultancy contracts
involving firms would include a mandatory review by the Bank of proposed short list, letter of invitation and
award proposal for all contracts. Programs for Training and Studies, financed by IBRD, would be reviewed
annually by IBRD.
4.12       aingEz@enditures. Operating costs include local staff salaries, allowances, office running
expenses and fuel for which procurement is not applicable. The remaining expenses such as repairs,
stationery, etc., would be financed and procured by Government using their own standard procedures.



-23 -
4.13    Review of Procurement. All bidding packages exceeding US$100,000 to be financed by IBRD for
goods and equipment would be subject to IBRD prior review. All other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review. Thus about 81 percent of the total contract value of procurement would be
subject to IBRD prior review.
4.14    The procurement officer in IVTB, under the direction of the head accountant in the Finance and
Grants division of IVTB would be responsible for all procurement. Procurement documents for goods and
consultants for the first year of the project would be prepared and sent to the Bank for review and approval.
4.15    Recording of Procurement 1nfornmaion. On appointment, the accountant consultant in IVTB would
prepare proposals for collecting and recording data on project procurement. This would include the
periodicity and content of progress reports and consultant performance evaluations; the preparation by the
Borrower of quarterly revised cost estimates and timing for all contracts and other project expenditures; the
preparation of Completion Reports within a specified period from the loan closing date; and at the time of
supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement undertaken to-date together with a forward
forecast of anticipated procurement to be undertaken in the coming year with estimated costs. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations. (See paragraph 7.03(iii).
D.      DISBURSEMENTS
4.16    The proposed IBRD loan of US$ 5.40 million would be disbursed on the following basis:
Table 4
DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND PERCENTAGES
Category                   Amount of Loan Allocated  % of Expenditures to be
US$ million                                          fipanced
Equipment & Furniture                3.19            85% of local expenditures
100% of foreign
Technical Assistance                 0.77            80% of local expenditures for
experts from Mauritius
100% of total for all others
Training & Studies                   0.62            80% of local expenditures
100% of foreign
Books, Periodicals,                  0.41            85% of local expenditures
Materials & Supplies                                 100% of foreign
Trng' Support Research               0.32             100% of foreign expenditures
Other Costs                         Qam0              100% of foreign expenditures
TOTAL                      5.40



- 24 -
4.17    All disbursements would be requested in line with Bank Guidelines and operate under procedures
acceptable to IBRD. All disbursements would be fully docuniented except for payments for contracts less than
US$25,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE's). SOE's
would be certified by the Director of IVTB, who would confirm that these are in agreement with the ledger
accounts, copies of which would accompany the claims. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation
would, however, be retained and made available for review by the auditors and IBRD supervision missions.
Wherever possible all withdrawal applications should be aggregated in batches of not less than US$25,000
equivalent. It is anticipated that the loan would be fully disbursed over a seven-year period which is consistent
with the country disbursement profile. An indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 10 along
with the project and country profiles.
E.      ACCOUNTS AU-IT AND REPORTS
4.18    Accounts and AMdit. ITVB would establish and maintain separate project-related accounts at their
office responsible for project execution and would be operational from commencement of project
implementation. Su(h accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank to enable IVTB to provide interim and financial
statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the project.
4.19    IVTB accounts are regularly audited by government auditors under the supervision of the Director
of Audit who, in turn, submits his report to the Parliament. An auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to
the Bank on the interim and financial statements, would be provided within seven months of the close of the
fiscal year. The auditors report would include a detailed statement on the adequacy of the accounting system
and internal controls, an independent/separate opinion on the reliability ,of statements of expenditure as a basis
for loan disbursements (see paragraph 4.17). IVTB project accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements will provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of disbursements and
the project generally.
4.20    Assurances were obained at negotiationsthat accounting and auditing arrangements would connue
under procedures satisfactory to the World Bank (see paragraph 7.03(iv)).
4.21    Rerts. A combined Annual Work Program summariziny achievements in the past year and
wroposals for the forthcoming ye for all project comgonents would be prepared by IVTB with assistance
from MEPD and submitted to the Bank for review by March 31 of every year (see paragraph 7.03(vy)). In
addition, brief semi-annual progress reports will also be prepared by tha Borrower. These would be submitted
within two months of the end of each half-year. The data and informatio.i for these reports should assist
management in the monitoring of project implementation and the BL    its supervision.
4.22    Assurances were obtained at negotiation that (3OM would preare a Proect ComLletion Report
(PCR) to be submitted to IBRD not later than six months after the closingi of the Loan (see naragrra
7!03(vi)).



- 25 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.      STATUS OF PREPARATION
5.01    Status of Preparation. Preparation of the project was carried out by Government and in particular
by IVTB working with MEPD. Initial preparation of the training strategy was undertaken by MEPD who
produced the overall industrial training strategy and translated this into a program of human resource
development. IVTB carried out the preparation of the individual training components described above and
drafted the outline institutional development program, the Resource Center functions and equipment
requirements and the training schemes which have been designed to cover cross-sectoral industrial activities.
B.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.02    Project Management. The project will be managed by the staff of IVTB, on a day-to-day basis,
under the overall direction of the Director. There are no plans to recruit special staff to manage the project.
Indeed the central objective of the project is the institutional development of IVTB and the introduction of a
special project management unit would be counter-productive. Monthly monitoring of the project will be
carried out by the IVTC at its regular meetings.
5.03    A project launch workshop is planned as part of the first supervision mission. At that time the
draft implementation program, set out in Annex 11, wi'l be reviewed by a joint team from IVTB and the
World Bank. The finalized implementation plan will then form the basis for both IVTC and Bank monitoring
of the project. The project launch workshop will also focus strongly on Bank procurement procedures to
ensure that, not just the staff directly involved with procurement, but that all staff of IVTB and members of
IVTC fully understand the necessity of following Bank procedures. Explanations of Bank disbursement
procedures will also be included. However a key feature of the project launch workshop will be to develop
ownership of the project by staff of IVTB. Up to now much of the recent work on the finalization of the
project has been carried out by Bank staff and it will be essential, as the project is launched, to generate
commitment and interest in the outcome af the project among IVTB staff. Agremment on th overall work
plan will be a conrdition of effectiveness of the proiect (paragraph 7.01).
5.04    Bank Supervision. A supervision program for the project is given in Annex 12.
5.05    Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review will be carried out towards the end of 1994. The review,
to be carried out jointly with the staff of IVTB, will focus on three key areas, (i) the development of IVTB as
an institution and the degree to which it is continuing to provide demand-driven training with constant feed-
back from the private sector; (ii) the progress in overall implementation of the project; and (iii) the operation
of the training levy which should be managed flexibly and be responsive to industrial training demands.



-26 -
C.       ENIYRONMENTAL IMACTI
5.06    None of the project components will adversely affect the environment. The refurbishing of existing
buildings will take place in urban or peri-urban areas close to centers of population, as will any new
construction. Since training will be taking place in industries already established in Mauritius, or about to be
introduced, environmental concerns should already have been resolved. The Bank has an active
environmental program with Government which has rwently published a National Envirommental Action Plan.
There has already been follow-up to this plan in the torm of a two-year Environmental Management Project
which is executed by the Bank on behalf of UNDP. A World Bank Envi,onmental Monitoring and
Development Project was approved by the Executive Directors in December 1990, with the Bank funding
US$ 12.4 million of the US $20.6 million project to facilitate the implementation of the investment program
outlined in the Environmental Action Plan.
D.    WOMEN IN DEVELOPMENT
5.07    Employment of women in the labor force has increased dramatically over the last decade, rising
from 20% of the labor force in the early 1970s to 53% in the late 1980s. More specifically, in the EPZ,
employment of women rose from 14% to 53% of employees and in the hotels and catering sector from 15%
to 30%. Traditionally, women have performed the more menial tasks in industry and service sector work, at
lower rates of pay. The introduction of improved training will lead to higher productivity and in turn, where
enterprises operate piece rates or bonus schemes, to higher wages. Supervisory courses should open up
opportunities for women to join the management ranks and offer them greater chances to move into senior
positions.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.     IUEETS AND JUSTIFIC
6.01    Benefits and Justification. The project will assist the Government in the vital process of developing
a national training capability and also IVTB with the skills and experience to plan, program, implement and
manage a national training policy and scheme. The main benefit will be institutional. In the short term the
project will strengthen IVTB in its initial start-up and provide support to help the key functional units to
prepare operating methodologies and procedures to maximize the opportunities for a sound, well run agency.
In the long run the association of IVTB with the private sector will ensure the development of training
practices which respond to private sector needs and that training institutions and courses are fully relevant to
the needs of the economy. More broadly the project will have a long-term impact in increasing the quality of
the work force leading to long-term benefits in enhanced productivity and higher quality products from a
wider and more diversified economical base.



- 27 -
6.02    RiWks. IVTB is a relatively new and untested agency and requires, for its future success, close
collaboration between the public and private sectors. All the initial signs are that IVTB has started its
operations with full involvement of the private sector. Half the members of the IVTC are drawn from the
private sector and they are playing an active role. The TACs are active and have a mixed public/private
sector membership. IVTB has produced a training plan for the next three years based on inputs from
meetings with the private and public sector which have identified key programs of training. A second, and
less measurable risk, relates to the development of the Mauritius economy in the 1990s. Growth, based on
rapid development of the textile sector in the 1980s, was very high, but growth in the future is likely to be
less predictable as the economy becomes more diversified. It is unlikely that any single industry will
challenge the dominance of textiles and managing a multi-faceted economy will require a very flexible
approach to training. IVTB will, through the project, be given the resources, staffing and professional
competence to carry out its mandate.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMATION
A.      CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVENESS
7.01    The following are conditions of effectiveness:-
(i) the submission to the Bank for review and approval of an overall work plan for the project
based on the outline given in Annex 11 (see paragraph 5.03).
B.      CONDMTION OF DISBURSEMENT
7.02    The following is a condition of disbursement:-
(i) Government will submit, for the Bank's review and approval, the training programs, program
objectives and proposed list of equipment for the four cross-sectoral programs (see paragzaph
3.10).
C.      ASS1JRANCES
7.03    In addition, during negotiations assurances were obtained that:-
(i) Government was selecting a consultant to prepare the business plan, financial plan and
budgets (see paragraph 3.06);
(ii) the recording of procurement information, as described in paragraph 4.15,
would be followed during the project;
(iii) accounting and audit arrangements would continue to be satisfactory to the
Bank during the project (see paragraph 4.20);



-28 -
(iv) Government would submit to the Bank-for review by March 31 of every year-annual work
programs, both prospective and retrospective (see paragraph 4.21);
(v) Government would prepare a Project Completion Report not later than six months after
closing of the Loan (see paragraph 4.22).
7.04    Subject to the above provisions, the proposed prowct would constitute a suitable basis for a World
Bank Loan of US$ 5.40 million to the Government of Mauritius.



ANNEX 1
Page I of 9
Iu9a
Basic Data
Table 1. Selected Economic Indicators
Table 2. Contributions of Major Sectors by Output, Investment and Employment
Table 3.  Population, Labor Force and Employment
Table 4.  Total Employment by Major Industrial Sectors
Table S.  Structural Changes in the Economy
Table 6.  Number of Establishments and Employment in the EPZ
Table 7. Estimated Labor Force for 1988 and 1990 and Projections for 1993 and 1995
Table 8.  Estimated Activity Rates for 1988 and 1990 and Projections for 1993 and  1995



ANNEX 1
-30-                                     page 2 of 9
Table 1
Selected Economic Indicators
uni t          194        19         1116        A      1196        199    1990
I. outpu
1. GMP at F.C                  (R .)           12050     13880       16450      19695  I 23181       26570   30730
If. Per capita GNP             (Rs)            14045     16157       190J8     22958    26759       30525   35070
2. Epwi1tiwe
I.  Gross Dometic Savings      (Rs *)          2684       3585        5624      6459      7079        6791    7620
if. SavIngs Ratio               MX)             18.7      21.6        28.5       27.0     25.5        21.5    21.4
fIii. Investment               (Rs m)           2595      3200        369090   0m    7990             8565    11215
iv. Investment s a X of GOP   CX)               18.1      18.6        19.9       21.6     28.7        27.1    30.8
3. Real Growth Rates
I. GOP at f.C                  CX)             +4.7       *6.8        .8.9      +8.4      +6.1        .3.8    +6.3
of which:  Agriculttre       X                0.8     +11.3       +10.7       -3.1     -5.3        e8.6   +10.6
* Sugar          (")             -3.9      +15.9       +13.0      -4.4      *9.4       -13.5   *14.0
Nmduafaeturom  (U)            +12.2      +15.3       +20.2     +14.7       +79        .2.7    .7.0
- Sugar          (")             -2.4      +20.0       e12.6      -3.9    *10.1        -13.7   +13.9
- EPZ            (H)            +32.9      +30.0       +34.9     +22.0    +12.0    . .9.5    .7.9
Restaurant & Notels         (I)             +14.5      +6.8       .13.8      +21.1
Pubtlc Sector                                 4.6      .5.6        13.?       12.2
iI. Investmnt                   MX)              +6.1     .10.0       +19.9      +24.7 ?   17.0        .120   +11.5
4. satli-  of Pants
i.  Exports                   (Rs *)           5490      7818        9413      11927    13854       1SS17   17500
If. Inprts                    C")             6494       8119        9199      13042    17400       20717   23500
I I i.Vosible Trade Batlace    (C)            -1004     -1101        +214       -115    .3606       -4700   -6000
iv. Current a/c Balance      (C)               -716      -459        1253        921     -770       -1608
v. Overall BOP               C")              -250      .258       .1716      +2788    +2466       +.?25
vi. Foreign Exchange Reserves (")               570       882       +2450       4478     6428        6045
5. Taurim
I.  Tourism Arrivats          (000)           139.7     148.9       165.3     207.6    239.3        262.8   285.0
iI. Gross Earnings            (Rs m)           630        845        1187       1786     2374        2786    3300
1II. No. of Hotels                               54        55          56         60       64          67       72
6. Ptulic Sector
1.  Investment                (Rs a)            825      1000        1375       1715     3380        2285    4020
11. Eaployment                (000)            83.0      83.5        83.7       84.S       .           .
7.  Total EIplolu tCSapt)          (000)            305        338        377        406      424         431      437
8. tnflation Rate                  Cl)              7.3        6.7         1.8       0.6      9.2        12.6    13.5
9.  GOP N.Prices FY               (Rs e)          15247      17892      21185      25581    29607       33877   36400
10. Overaltl BwLet F?             (Rs  )           -824       -641       -297       -289      -950     -104.7   -84.0
11. Budget Deficft *  a % GOP I.P.CX)              5.4        3.6         1.4        1.1      3.2         3.2      2.3
2.  Debt Sevice tatio            ()
24.3      26.8        19.4       12.1     11.0        13.3



ANNEX 1
-31-                                      Page  3  of  9
Table 2
Contribution of Major Sectors to Output, Investment,
Employment
_ _ _ _ ___  1982  1983     1984     1985      1986      198M      1988
1.  MP at Current Factor Cost  No*a            10020    10613    12050    13630    16450    19695
of which
Agriculture        X               15.3      13.8     14.4      15.3      15.3      14.6      13.4
Sugar                              11.3      9.5       9.7      11.1      11.6      10.8       9.5
anufacturing       "               15.6      15.8     18.1      20.6      23.3      24.6      24.0
Sugar                               3.1      2.5       2.7       3.2       3.7       3.4       2.6
EPZ                *                4.5      5.2       7.2       9.6      11.6      13.1      13.6
Restaurants & Hotels          a                2.4       2.6       2.5       2.4       2.5       2.7       2.9
Publ1c Sector                                 23.9      23.6      23.0      23.1      23.8      25.4
2. Invest ent CGDFCF             Res m          2100      2300      2595      3100      3690      5090      7990
of which
Agriculture       X                6.4      4.4       4.7       4.2       3.3       5.7       2.9
Manufaiuring    a                 15.0     14.7      19.4      23.9      27.5      28.7      23.5
EPZ               a                1.8      3.1       8.1      13.1      14.4      12.9      10.9
Hotels                       U                1.2       1.7       1.9       5.8       2.6       2.7      3.4
Public Sector                a               36.0      35.4      31.8      32.3      35.3      33.7
3. Total Eptloysnt              (COO)            294       282       305       338       377       406       424
of which
Agriculture       X               29.2     28.9      26.9      24.7      21.8      19.3      18.5
Manufacturing    u                19.0     19.6      24.3      29.3      35.5      38.5      39.2
EPZ               a               11.8     11.9      17.0      22.3      28.6      32.0      33.7
Restaurants & Hotels         u                1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.7       1.8
Public Sector                                   - .    29.3      27.2      24.7      22.2      20.8            I



ANNEX 1
-32-                                   Page  4  of  9
Table 3
Population, Labour Force and Employment, 1962 - 1988
1962       197         1963       1964       19M6        1969
681.6      826.2       966.9      907.6    1016.6       1081.7
1. Population ('000)                       164.2      254.4       350.0      366.0      437.0
2. Labour Force (t000)                                             63.0       63.0       90.0
of which:
Pubtic Sector COOG)              173.5      211.7       282.0      305.0      424.0
3. Employed persons (*000)                  10.7        41.8       66.0       63.0        13.0
4.  Utwmptoyed persons (*000)                5.8        16.4        19.4      17.1        3.0
5. Unetploymnt rate (4/2)(X)
1.9        1.4         0.9        1.0        1.0         1.0
6. Average anl    growth
rate of population tX)
3.3        2.9         6.0        4.4        4.5
7. Average aual growth
rate of labour force CMX
Source: CSO and NEPO



Table 4
Total Employment by Major Industrial Sectors
Esploymnt                 19?2(CenruS L..   _          _  1WSS (Est imte)
8oth                             Soth                                Both
Sector                         Kale     Female   Sexes         Rate       Female  $Sexs         Natl F_mele            Sexae
Agriculture, NHmting,
forestry and Fishing          54.334    16.365      70.699      46.417    15,488    61.905       SS.000      27.000     82,000
Nining cnd urrying                95         28        125         168         3         2S1          -
Namafacturling                24,607     4.513      29.120      33.350    20,357     53.707      60,000      72,000    132,000
Electricity, Gas and
Water                          3.057        89       3,14        3.923       132      4.055       4,000                  4,000
Construction                  20,377       149     20,S26       18,989       251     19.240      19,000           .     19.000
IHolesate 4 Reteil Trae
A Restaurant & Motels
17.676     2.892     20,568      21,946      5,256     27.202     38,000      17,000      SS.000
transport, Stora9ge 
Commnuic tions
Finamcing, Insurance.         13.764       380      14,144      15.243       696     15.941      26.0CO       2.000     28,W00
Reat Estate 4 S.Servf se
Co unity, Social and           2,235       S11       2.746       4,869     1,606      6,475      7,000        2,000      9,000
Personal Services
Activities not                34,628    18,936     53.564       41,726    23.146     64.872      60.000      29.000     89.00
defined
673       267        940          186        48        234          .
Total               171,446    44.130    215,576      186,817   6V,065    253.Q       25.000      149,000    4a_.m
Source: NEgP and CSO
0
I,



ANMEX 1
-34-                            Page 6 of 9
Table 5
Structural Changes in the Economy
(% Shares)
Sector              Value-Added                               Employment
1976   1986   1987   1990   1976    1986    1987    1989
Agriculture  28.2   15.3   14.8   12.6    34.8   21.0    18.9          16.7
Industry      26.2   31.4   32.3   32.0    21.6   38.3    42.6    44.8
services      45.6   53.3   52.9   55.4    43.6   40.7    38.5         38.5
TOTAL        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Sources CSO and MEPD



Table 6
Number of Bstablishaents and 8mployment La BPS Sector
(September figures)
1983              1988                  1989
No.                 No. of                No.
Main Product    of         Employmen  Establis  Employme  of          Employman
t          h-        nt         Betablis  t
Establish            ment                  h-
ment
Textile yarn and            10         1,63      25       3,670         30      4,251
fabrics
Wearing apparel             77                  370      79,317        359    75,201
18,433
Wood products &             2          *          7         517         14        540
furniture                                                                                            4
Watches, clocks &
optical                       9                    10       1,407         10        903
goods                             673
Jewellery and related
articles                    6                     9       1,448          8        231
681
Other products             25                    63       4,379        142      7,524
_ _ _ _ ___   ___ __ _            2,002      __  _ _  _   _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total                     129                  484      90,738        563    88,650
__ __ __ __ __ __ _23,424__ __ __ _ 23,424  .__ __ _   ___ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
* Data have been included in group "other products" so as not to
disclose particulars relating to individual establshments.
Sources: CSO - Digest of Industrial Statistics, 1988 and Bank of NaurLtius.
0
~0



ANNEX 1
Page  8 of 9
Table 7
Estimated Labour Force for 1988 and Projection for
1990, 1993 and 1995
(by age group and sex)
Ag-Group                      Kate                                       Fe te
(Years)
1908      19        1993       1995       1968       1990        1993       1995
15-19      25,300    25,000    24,S00      25,800     15,000     15,S00      16,400     17,900
20-24      51,200    47,200    43,800      43,100     29,900     28,200      27,300     27,900
25-29      49,200    50,500    50,300      46.900     25.800     27,700      28.300     26,800
30-34      43,900    45,500    47,900      49,500     22,500     24,200      25,900     27,000
35-39      37,900    39,600    43,000      44,600     19,90'2    21,500      23,700     25,100
40-44      24,900    29,700    35,700      38,200     12,700     16,500      19,900     21,600
45-49      18,000    20,200    23,800      28,100     8,300       9,400      11,500     13,800
50-54      16,600    16,400    17,000      18,300     7,100       7,300      8,100      8,900
55-59      12,200    13,300    14,000      14,000     4,600       5,400      5,800      5,800
60-64       4,800     4,400     4,600      4,900       1,700      1,700      1,800       1,900
6S2over      2.900     3.200     3.900      4.000       1.500      1,600      1.700      1.800
Total      286,900   295,000   308.500    317,400    150,000    159,000    170,400    178,S00
Source: NEPO ed CSO



ANNEX 1
-37-Page 9 of 9
Table 8
Estimated Activity Rates for 1988 and Projections for
1990, 1993 and 1995
(by age-group and sOx)
Age-Group                 Male                               Temal-
(years)       ------
lo86    1990    1993    1995    1988       1990      1993     1995
15-19        54      52      50       S0       33       33        34       35
20-24        96      96      96       96       59       59        62       64
25-29        98      98      98       98       53       56        57       58
30-34        98      98      98       98       52       53        54       55
35-39        98      98      98       98       53       55        56       57
40-44        97      97      97       97       52       54        55       56
45-49        95      95      95       95       42       43        45       46
50-54        91      91      91       91       37       39        42       42
55-59        84      83      84       84      31        33        33       33
60-64        33      33      35       35       11       12        12       12
65 & over      14      14       16      16       5         S        5         5



UAITIUS - MDIlE OF EOUCATION  NI UAGIINO SYSTEM
T~~~~~DATI lL C 
EI     l l PPIIASS:U*ADEUF                           FAIL
Not.: 1  Reeat. -to laprovo Brades aNW thus                        :Mah0
chon: f seondary schiol.                                   E      nEglish                         iQ Z
F      :Freech                               D 
0
Certiflcato                          ~~~~~~~2)  Shaedd aroeas r*Preseat IYTS'. WOrk.             H.S.C  s High.r School0
Certificate                                                                     ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVT    :Pro-Voce6lseal Traimi.g  1-'P
TV     s TochmEcaI Certificate



ANNEX 3
-39-                                Page 1 of 5
The Human Resource Development ProrraM
Numbered Projects form the Core Program presented at the Donors' Meeting in March 1990 in Geneva.
Ministry of Education. Arts and C 'Sj=                              Evund
University of Mauritius
1. Capacity Expansion                                   6.0            4.4
- Up-grading Dept. of Management and Accounting         2.6            2.0
- Up-grading Dept. of Social Studies and Humanities     2.7            2.4
2. School of Engineering                                9.0            7.2
3. Developing Research Capability                       1.3            1.3
- Residential Complex                                   0.7            0.6
sub-total                     22.3           17.9
Mauritius Institute of Education and
Mauritius College of the Air
- Up-grading of Primary School Teacher Skills          1.7             1.7
Ministry of Education
4. College of Further Education                        2.0             1.3
5. Colleges of Technical Education                     3.3             2.0
6. Up-grading Existing Technical Institutes            1.7             1.3
7. Development of Computer Education                   1.1             1.0
8. Computer Technology in Schools                      1.2             1.0
sub-total                      9.3             6.6
Mauritius College of the Air
- Development of Distance Education                    4.0             3.4
Prime Minister's Office
9. Setting Up Basic Training Infrastructure           10.4            8.6
10. Training for Specific Industrial Sectors           11.6            9.3
- Training for Specific Trades                         9.5             9.0
11. Pre-vocational Training                            11.3           11.3
12. Electronics and Electrical Training Center         12.7           11.3
sub-total               55.5            49.5



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
40
Mlinistr of EimrPann  n
13. Training in Businese Studies               0.4      0.4
14. Footwear and Leaher Craft Courses          2.7      2.4
1S. Fashion and Desip Training                 1.6      1.4
16. International Economic Data Base           0.6      O.S
17. Labor Market Modelling                     0.4      0.3
sub-total                 5.7       5.0
Minis  of Civil Service and Emplaoent
-  Management Development Seminars             0.3      0.3
-  Public Sector In-Service Training           0.4      0.3
18. Training Center                            0.7      0.6
sub-total                  1.4       1.2
Ministr of Labor and ndustrial Relations
Wlomen's Rit and FaMily EWefare
-  Community Levd Trining                      0.9      0.7
-  Vocational Training/School Drop Outs        2.4      2.3
19. CAD/CAM Training for EPZ Workers           1.0      1.0
sub-total             4.3      4.0
Ministr of Social Set National
Solidarit and Refrm Institution
- Reform Institutions - Vocational Training    0.8      0.3
- Drug Rehabilitation Program                  0.5      0.4
sub-tal               1.3      0.7
Ministry of Agriculture. Fisheries and
Natural Resources
20. Manpower Development                       0.5      0.5
-  Master Plan for Agriculture Training        3.4      2.7
21. Manpower Doveopment in the Sugar           4.7      4.S
Industry *                                     O.S      O.S
22. Agricultural Meanization                   0.4      0.3
-  Land Resources Management                   0.6      0.5
23. Electron Micrscope Unit                    0.4      0.4
-  Library and Scientific Info., Service
sub-total             10.      9 4



AN4NEX 3
-41-                                Page 3 of 5
Ministr of Fner!y. NMt IMocSM and Poswi
Servica  n MIMICr of Civi Service Affajg
- Uprading of CEB ad DWC Training Cat           0.5      0.5
_ O
- Commercia Pilots' Licence Traiing             1.1      1.1
- Training of Port Peromd                       1.0      0.9
sub-otal              2.1      2.0
Ministay of Industry and Industrial Technlogy
24. Computerization of MEDIA Acthvities         0.2      0.1
- Training in Quality Assurance                 0.4      0.3
0.6     0.4
Minita of Youth and Sports ad TM
- Residential Traning Center                    0.5      0.5
Minigt  of Finance
- State Infornatics Traiing Center              0.4     0.4
- Assistance to the Stock Exchage               1.0    1.0
sub-total             1.4     1.4
Ministr of Trade andSipnf
- Up-grading of Sea Training School             0.3     0.3
Ministr for Rodrigues
25. Human Resource Center                       1.0    0.9
Grand Total                                    122.4   105.4
Components of the Sugar Industry Manpower Development Program are:-
- Technical Training
- Training Master Plan
- Agricultural Mechanization
- Agricultural Diversification
- Training in Mil Automation
 Computer Training
- Management and Supervisory Development
- Employment Development



ANNEX 3
-42-                              Page 4P of 5
Sumumar of the Overall and -Corp -Prorams
Overall        Core
Program        Program
Number of Project                  60              25
Total Cost - Ovell Program,       122.4            70.9
(USS million)
Fundi  Requred, (US$million)      105.4            62.6
Foreign Exchange, (USSmillion)    73.4             41.5
Percen FE of Fundin                70%             66%
Required



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
-43-
Donor's Interest Li Ex2ressed durinf the Geneva Donors' Meeting of Marh. I0
Institution        Total         Basis
aoupt           (in USS million)   Lon/Gran    Area(s) Of Interest
African Develop-
ment Bank           12.0         Loan         Basic Education, Technical Education and Agricultural
Traning
World Bank          12.0         Loan         Instutional Development of IVTB and Industrial and
Vocational Training
UNDP                2.5          Grant        Labor Market Modellint, Support for the Education Sector
Master Plan and Continued Support for the HRDP
UNIDO               0.5          Grant        Leatherwork Training
ILO                               -           Provision of Technical Services
Commission of the European
Ctommunities       5.0           Grant        Training in Industries, a Resource Center on Rodrigues
and Support for Environmental Protection
Caisse Centrale     15.0         Loan         Industrial Training
Australia           4.0          Grant        Technical Training
France              6.0          Grant        Establishment of a College of Further Education and
Colleges of Technical Education
India               3.0          Loan         Support for ITTC at Piton, TA for Software Training and
Training of Trainers
UK                  0.5          Grant        Short-Term Consultants for Technical Training
USA                 6.5          Grant        Support to the University of Mauritius
Total JL  1L
IL of which:- US$ 25.0 million on grant basis and USS 42.0 million on
loan terms



STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATION OF IVTB
fE a
r=-~~~-
Gffd38MW~~~~~~~~~~~~U4IT
* I d@| o no VOCA T sWdL f t  a  aI
11  H=5  =c==3A=]  +   FL] $om                                            As &U
+    E E:1            141                 E i3            141            ER 9~Ase. eb
~~~~~~G. 1Xlnor



.45.                                 ANNEX  5
Page 1 of 1
Staffin of I!T
Position                    Number
Director                     1
Divisional Managers          6
Senior Staff                 14
Clerical Staff               13
Support Staff                6
a0
as of February 28, 1991



ANNEX  6
Page 1 of 2
Outline of a Business Plan for IVTB
1.    IVTB urgently need to prepare a Business Plan which sets out a vision of its future and translates that
into a practical objectives and plans to achieve those objectives. Essential to the Business Plan is a recognition
of the fact that infinite resources are not available and difficult, and often unpopular decisions will have to be
made on priorities.
2.    The Business Plan will have a number of audiences:- The Prime Minister, as the Minister responsible for
training, the Industrial and Vocational Training Council, members of Government ministries, particularly those
concerned with industrial and vocational training, the private sector and staff of the Industrial and Vocational
Training Board.
3.    The Business Plan should consist of the following chapters and sections:-
(i) A cover page giving the Board's full name, address, telephone and fax numbers and list of key
staff.
(ii) A page listing the members of the Council, their tides and the Ministry or private sector company
they represent.
(iii) The mandate of the IVTB as set out in the Industrial and Vocational Training Act, Act No. 8 of
1988 dated April 15, 1988. Any amendments to that Act, including the transfer of responsibility for
pre-vocational training and the rITCs to the IVTB and covering the issue of training for
Government civil servants.
(iv) A mission statement setting out the mission of IVTB in no more than half a page.
(v) A chapter on the Functions and Outnuts of IVTB covering objectives, priority activities and work
programs of each of the main functions of IVTB, eg, registration of training schools, trade testing,
grants' payments, accounting, etc.
(vi) A chapter on the staffing of IVTB by levels and responsibilities and the projected staffing over the
next several years. The chapter should show recruitment plans, and given the shortage of skilled
trainers in Mauritius an indication of the possible sources of new staff. Projections on probable
staff turnover should be included.
(vii) The organization structure showing reporting relationships and possible changes in the structure as
recruitment proceeds.
(ix) A chapter on the existing skills' profiles of the higher level staff identifying skills' gaps against
existing staff and skills' needs. An outline staff training program should be included.
(x) A chapter on "marketing" IVTB and the overall public relations strategy including developing an
Industry wide "sensitization" program, information on "best practices" and the grants program.



,47-                            ANN?EX 6
Page 2 of 2
(xi) A cnapter on investments planned with major capital expenditures detailed. This chapter should
cover the construction and conversion program for the IVTB headquarters and other training
schools. Detailed projections of the funds required should be included together with possible
sources.
(xii) A chapter on recurrent expenditure forecasts and budgets including cash flow projections.
(xiii) The Business Plan should conclude with a review of key issues facing IVTB. Such issues might
include a review of the mandate of IVTB, alternative approaches, and difficulties in recruiting ant.
training key staff.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
48-
C muultn' Ter   of Redwenc to fteMM  Bh Ff  luslnmsPan
The Consultant will report to the Director of the IVMB. In order to familiarize himself with the needs,
pmoblems and opportunities with which the IVTB is taced, the Consultant will first:-
(i) review the legal basis of IVTB; and
(i) interview members of IVTC, the staff of IVrTB sad otheas in Government and the private sector as
appropriate, to determine in a comprehensive way the nature and priorities of the challenges which
the Board faces.
Working unda the guidance of the Director, IVTB, the Consultant will:-
(iii) assist in the formulation of an overall plan of action coveri  the medium term (three to five years)
to bring IVTB to its fuUl operating potential.
Based on the foundation laid down, the Consultant, in collaboration with IVTB staff assigned to work with
him, will:-
(iv) review the management and organizational structure of the IVTB;
(v) prepare the master work program for IVTB, including milestones for the achievement of specific
levels of capability;
(vi) outline the procedures and operational regulations which IVTB should adopt to carry out its work
effectively;
(vii) prepare a technical assistance plan;
(viii) prepare outline staff development plans;
(ix) prepare training plans specifying in outline the type, duration and level of course, together with
possible training institutions.
(x) bring all of the above information into a business plan for IVTB for submission to the Bank prior to
Board presentation of the project.
In view of the fact that sufficient information may not be available during the consultancy, the Consultant
will:-
(xi) assure that the products of the work are suitably flexible to allow for possible contingencies; and
(xii) carry out such other activities with in the scope of the Consultants' capabilities as may be proposed
by and agreed with the Director, IVTB.
limo. 3 staff months



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
-49-
Projects and Plannn Division
Consultant's Terms of Reeence
The consultant will report to the Director or to the Manager of the Projects and Planming Division as the
Director may decide. He will act as team leader.
Qbiective. To provide technical and professional support to the division.
ecific Activitiem.
The consultant will first develop a work plan based on the activiticl set out below:-
(i)  working with the staff of the division, develop methodologies for identifying training needs in
existing and emerging sectors of the economy;
(ii) assist in the development of methods to evaluate training projects;
(iii) prepare and implement programs to evaluate training projects;
(iv) develop, introduce and monitor systems for costing training programs;
(v) develop and introduce monitoring and evaluation systems;
(vi) prepare and introduce programs for monitoring possible impacts on training of changes in the
economy and labor market;
(vii) working with the divi;ional manager and the consultant, working with the Inplementation Division
prepare outline training programs in the four cross-sectoral programs proposed under the project's
Support for Selected Cross Sectoral Training ProErams. This would involve identifying training
needs and the population, developing the curriculum, preparing data on required equipment and its
anticipated costs and locating suitable corsitants;
(viii) prepare operational manuals for IVTB on the key activities; and
(ix) assist in the development of a more comprehensive careers guidance program for school leavers
including involving the private sector in the program.
Tino. 4 staff months.



ANNEX  8
-SO-                                Page 2 of 4
Consultant's Tern. of ernc
The consultant will report to the Director, IVTB, or the Division Manager as the Director may decide.
Ojcive. To provide technical and professional support to the division.
St fflc Activiies.
The consultant will develop a work plan for review and approval of the Director based on the following
activities:-
(i)  develop training plans for commercial and industrial sub-sectors based on inputs from the Progrms
and Planning Division;
(ii) identify and cost alternative resources for the training;
(iii) make appropriate decisions with the manager on the best sources of cost-effective traing;
(iv) determine the long term demand for training, in particular sub-sectors, as a basis for setting up
repeat courses if appropriate;
(iv) work with industry and commerce to develop in-house training for existing industries and set-up
training for small employers on a pooling basis;
(v) develop appropriate curricula and appropriate methodologies for curricula preparation;
(vi) identify equipment needs, sources, train staff and trainers in the use of equipment and instructional
materials;
(vii) draft and publish operational manuals for the division;
(viii) working with the manager, Programs and Planning Division and the consultant, prepare courses for
the SupArt for Cross Sectoral Training Courses component of the Project;
(xi) train the staff of the division;
TimL 4 staff months.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
-S1-
F1nanc and Gmrant MCAsI
Consultant's Terms ofReree
The cuant will report to the Direor or the Manager of the Fice and Grants Division at the
discredoa of the Dirctor.
ObjM     To develop and implement sound accounting, budgeting, costing management accounting and
procurement procedures to IVTB.
lS2ific Activities.
The accountant will first develop a work program based on the activities listed below:-
(i)  initially carry out an in-depth review of IVB's accounting procedures;
(ii) set up budgeting procedures so that IVTB's budget accurately reflects the resources available and the
tasks to be performed;
(iii) build on the existing accounting and book-keeping practices and develop management accounts;
(iv) develop costing systems so that activities of IVTB can be accurately costed;.
(v)  develop and introduce the concept of cah flow forecasting and implement procedures to ensure that
IVTB's cash flow forecasts are accurate and up-to-date;
(vi) implement the new procedures and review their efficiency. Make changes as necessary;
(vii) draft and prepare an accounting manual for IVTB;
(viii) develop procurement procedures;
(ix) in particular become familiar with World Bank procurement procedures and, with the procurement
officer, be responsible for correctly interpreting those procedures;
(x)  provide ad-hoc cost inputs as required;
(xi) develop, introduce, carry out and monitor training programs for the accounting staff and train
managers of IVTB generally in sound financial practices;
(xii) review, and develop as necessary, procedures connected with the grants for training to the private
sector;
(xiii) introduce an audit procedure for IVTB grants to the private sector; and
(xiv) carry out such other assignments with in the scope of his technical and professional abilities as may
be agreed with the Director.
C staff months; in two phases, four months initially and after a break of six months, two months.



ANNEX a
Paae 4 of 4
-52-
Sport Ter Consulitani
SI o Referec
In order to maintain flexibility and to allow for changing circumstances, no specific terms of reference
have been proposed for the short-term consultants. Terms of reference wil be prepared by the Director, IVTB,
working with the three divisional consultants. It is anticipated that the consultancies will deal with a range of
subjects which might include, for example:-
- Labor market analysis
- Specialized training needs analysis
- Advanced computer training
- Curriculum development
- Training of trainers
- Developments in training methodologies
- Monitoring and evaluation techniques
-Tracer studies
- Apprenticeship scheme development
Terms of reference for the consultants would be approved by IVTC and submitted to the World Bank for
review and approval.
Studv Tours
Cross-fertilization and the introduction of new ideas plays a vital role in the development of human capital.
Ten study tours are proposed. The first one o. two study tours should seek to identify centers of excellence so
that subsequent study tours can be planned in a cost effective way and concentrate on areas where the maximum
benefit will be attained.
Study tours will not be restricted to senior managers but should be focussed on staff where new operational
experience will be best utilized on return.
Each study tour sftould be followed by an in-house seminar where the new ideas can be exposed to all
staff.



-53-                             ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
Indicative EquiDpment lUst for the Resource Center
The listing below indicates in some detail the equipment that will be required to establish the Resource
Center. The consultant, responsible for designing the Center, wUI finalize the equipment lists for submission to
the World bank for review and approval.
Microcomuter Sysm
System Units
Color Monitors
Monochrome Monitors
Printers
Printer Cables
Image Scanner
Drive System
Tsarency Makers
Overhead Projectors
MoieEjectors
16mm Projectors
Motor Drive Screens
Audio Amplifier System
Mlgho nes
Reader Machine
Reader Printer
Illuminated Magnifier
Synchronized Slide Projectors
Projectors
Zoom Lenses
Synchronized Tape Recorders
Speaker Stands
Projector Stands
Screens With Tripods
Amplifiers



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Procesingi Egubiment
Cameras, 35 mm
Lighting Sets
Tripods
Copier Stands
Audio Mixers
Educators
Microphones
Cassette Decks
VW/S&  Systm
VHS Video Cameras
VHS Editing Set
Color Monitors
Editing Control
Cables
Sound System
Teacher Console
Master Tape Recorders
Headsets
Ehotnia
Electric TvDeits
-onsumables. Consumables will be supplied for a five year period. These will cons3st of spare parts for
the equipment, diskettes (360 kb and 1.2m kb), films, slides, tapes, VHS video tape and other consumables
required to support training material preparation.



-55-                           ANNEX 1 0
Page 1 of 1
MAURIL'US
INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAINNG PROJECT
ESTIMTED SCHEDULE OF DLSBURSENMNTS
IBRD                             Cumulative       Project        County
Fiscal Year       Disbursements  Disbursements    Profilo         Profile
(%) 
- USS million
FY 1992
Sep. 30, 1991       0.00           0.00            0              0
Dec. 31, 1991       0.00           0.00            0               1
Mar. 31, 1992       0.00           0.00            0               3
June 30, 1992       0.08           0.08            2               4
FY 1993
Sep. 30, 1992       0.08           0.16            3               7
Dec. 31, 1992       0.09           0.25            5              10
Mar. 31, 1993       0.34           0.59            11             13
June 30, 1993       0.35           0.94            17             18
FY 1994
Sep. 30, 1993       0.34           1.28           24              24
Dec. 31, 1993       0.41           1.69           31              29
Mar. 31, 1994       0.41           2.10           39              34
June 30, 1994       0.42           2.52           46              39
FY 1995
Sep. 30, 1994       0.41           2.93           54              44
Dec. 31, 1994       0.41           3.34           61              49
Mar. 31, 1995       0.13           3.47           64              55
June30, 1995        0.13           3.60            66             61
FY 1996
Sep. 30, 1995       0.13           3.73           69              66
Dec. 31, 1995       0.12           3.8S           71              70
Mar. 31, 1996       0.25           4.10           75              75
June 30, 1996       0.25           4.35            80             80
FY 1997
Sep. 30, 1996       0.25           4.60            85             84
Dec. 31, 1996       0.24           4.84            89             88
Mar. 31, 1997       0.09           4.93           91              92
June 30, 1997       0.09           5.02            92             95
FY 1998
Sep. 30, 1997       0.10           5.12            94             97
Dec. 31, 1997       0.10           5.22            96             98
Mar. 31, 1998       0.10           5.32           98              99
June 30, 1998       0.08           5.40           100             100
Project Completion Date: June 30, 1998
Project Closing Date: December 31, 1998



ANNEX 1 1
Page  1 of 5
PrQject Imllementatio* Plan
The programs overleaf outline the project plans over the seven-year disbursement profile and will form
the basis for annual and semi-annual reviews during supervision missions.



TNP     GETATI4 PEN
Inptitutiont Supoort for Itt
_ __- C2___=__________=                                             -=T 92  93  94     95                        _       97                                           =
_ _ _ _ -  -.                                 l 2        A       2          1        2         1                1        2       1        2               .2
betitnicwl          A    OVESAS TRAIN7I                                                     sus..              xx        ass,.   ussug            Nun%               Santa
SwqD.ot for IVI I3         _=                                  l    l    l    I    =1 _                                                =                  X 
a    TO94ICAL
______              ~~~ASSISTAJME
I    Short Term                              4
Consumlteant,                        Rungs
_________   __  ~Pralacta 
_     tumsntatian                                            4_
ACCOmatn"t                            4                  2
Q"Glity                                                           3
..uacesmS -                                                                                                                  -  -    -    -
AmwC                                   StTlI    sa  =                x"E  s"   "s==   
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 71
02   Short T*rm                                       4                           444
__________________    eucilsllta                                    amu                         sux..                                                          mam..
cI STLO'VTomf                      a-333                               5333               aa
NX
U-
0i-
U't



bE,,az
-    ~- - - - - -- - - - - - -   
10112                         F_             F"             FV              F _              Fngmr_..
Or halt Nr                   a1       S     2             ,2 l                    1        2               l 2X             t 2
_ - 2~~~~~Vt                                      P~    _~-             -             --                           --
mom5ovm Center
____________  Td,ie,t Ameletese
Ph... 2a
3I.ff 1raini.                         6 
Eseienit               -       -      -       -      -_  -                          -      -
Draft eqeipub Ilat.                     h.asusEu
.s sren.r. teoo",                            -       -      -       -                                              
Evgemtet. toedere e                       [                         .  
F..rnitrm f  Mittn
Or.ft list.                            sanaa
Order and ;n.rsll                               Xs.. -Russ-                                                 -       -        -            
Draft Liost-                           .=.us=g -                     -                     -       -        -       -        -       -       -
Ode.r                                               .....-..... -  -    =   =   - =   - _
_      _~L                _     =-           =_                  _        _       _   _              _=  
Dericd6 eL;ts                              * 3*    _______                       __UUS  _______  _EUSE  Russo
Consumption_xi                                                                      - t--                           -       -     -        -
'Ixi
O h-
1b
Ut



ANNEX 11
.59-                 Page 4 of 5
I  S _ _ __ __ _ _ ___L-I__-i ___J_ _
p-X                          N I   I  T  l lol   l   1 1  1 1 I  T  I  I I   1  1  1 1 1 WI
J3 L                 N          _
I4    0LLTI    
1     -      - -0 -I s   - j- - 1 -li -l -l -  
IIS1L.r !w    =  t11   :



ANNEX 1 1
_ _                                                   _ _ _ _ Page 5 of 5
--4-----
Bs
-ui     -- 



ANNEX 12
-61-                               Page  1 of 2
IBRD Supervision Plan
1.     IBRD Supervision Plan into Main Activities. The staff inputs indicated in the table below are in
addition to the normal regular supervision needs at Headquarters which will be necessary to review progress
reports, procurement initiatives and to respond to routine correspondence. This is estimated to require up to
eight staff weeks in the first year of the project and six weeks each year thereafter.
2.     Borrowers Contribution to Supervision.
(i)   IVTB will submit semi-annual progress reports for edch half year, no later than two months after
each half year.
(ii) The final content of each progress report will be agreed at the Project Launch Workshop but
essentially the Semi-Annual Report will detail the following:-
- Project highlights;
- Work done during the previous half year;
- Progress against key indicators;
- Problems encountered and solutions implemented; and
- Work program for the next half year.
(iii) Progress reports will be reviewed, initially, by the IVTC before being passed to MEPD for
transmission to the World Bank. Both IVTC and MEPD can comment or. the reports but the
content should be as submitted by IVTB.
(iv) At the beginning of each supervision mission there will be an initial briefing meeting and at the
end, a final progress and wrap-up meeting, both normally chaired by the Chairman, IVTC.
Supervision missions will generally be timed to allow discussions with a full session of the
IVTC.



ANNEX 12
-62-                              Page 2 of 2
3.     IBRD Supervision Missions
Dates        Key                       Mission               Staff
(approx)     Activity                  Composition           Input
mmlyy                                                        (slw)
10/91     Project Launch            Task Manager             5
Workshop                 Procurement Adviser
03/92     Consultant                Task Manager             S
Selection and            Training Specialist
Recruitment,
Training Program
09/92     Technical Assistant       Task Manager             3
Component
03/93     Overall Progress          Task Manager             S
Training Specialist
n9/93     Training Program          Task Manager             4
Training Specialist
1994      Two Missions, Second to   Task Manager            10
carry mid-term review    Specialists as required
1995      Two Missions              Task Manager             8
Specialist as required
1996      Two Missions              Task Manager             8
Specialist as required
1997      Two Missions              Task Manager             10
Specialists as required
1998       Two v '1ions             Task Manager             10
Specialists as required



-63-                            AIWNEX  13
Page 1 of 1
Documents in the Project Files.
1. Directory of Training Resources in Mauritius - 1987, MEPD.
2. Mauritius - Towards an Industrial Training Strategy - 1988, MEPD.
3. Industrial and Vocational Training Plan - 1990 - 1993, IVTB.
4. Mauritius: A Program for Human Resource Development, MEPD.
S. Mauritius - Managing Success, IBRD.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 2296.
MAURITIUS
INDUSTRIAL AND VOCATIONAL    Canorriers
TRAINING PROJECT
HEADQUARTERS, IVTE
ARTERIAL ROADS                         Tnof/f
TRUNK ROADS
OTHER MAIN ROADS                     X    (               
BUILT-UP ARFAS                                                         "I+
RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
PORT ' \4 !PR
Crovrws Rs.n                                                                       wo  2   4   6   B \0de
{)! f /tl>                                        
I     i  /    I    I e
/ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~  1{ 2EEi                  2   1  5 
}        > J:nnbous               \' (   >                              \ 0 bows
i {~~~~~~TFrI!  a' (.                                               La P tp( 
|      ,   /\                     {      at           A--17                "''''"      '           -Pat-
Cot,, N.m, FFFr'I4 aFm, t4t-'oC,2 4  F
t~~~ E 2                                )    v   Ae Chcxicond~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12 
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
Ma.s 199



