Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFOCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9346
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 1521-AR)
FEBRUARY 8, 1991
Agriculture Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY Et)UIVALENTS
Currency Unit:                    Peso ($) at appraisal
New Peso (N$) at reappraisal
(equivalent to 10,000 old pesos)
Austral   (A)   at   completion
(equivalent to 1,000 new pesos)
Rate at Appraisals                US$1 - $960
Rate at Re-appraisal:             US$I - N$6.45
Rate at Completiont               US$1 - A8.70
WEIGMT AND MEASURES
metric System
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNA   :   Banco de la Naci6n Argentina
(Bank of the Argentine Nation)
DIGID :   Direcci6n General de Investigaci6n y Desarrollo
(General Directorate for Research and
Development)
DNCEG :   Direcci6n Nacional de Construcci6n de
Elevadores (National Directorate for Grain
Elevator Construction)
FA    :   Ferrocarriles Argentinos
(National Railways of Argentina)
JNG   :   Junta Nacional de Granos
(National Grain Board)
MOSP  s   Hinisterio de Obras y Servicios P6blicos
(Ministry of Public Works)
SAGyP :   Secretaria de Agricultura y Pesca
(Secretariat of Agriculture and Fisheries)
SIGEP :   Sindicatura General de Empresas Piblicas
(General Union for Public Enterprises)



FORt OMCICAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wa:hington. D.C. 20433
USA.
ONf* o4 OiW.Cestua
Opifatif SIMIw w
February 8, 1991
EMHORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Argentina
Grain Storate Pro1ect (Credit 1521-AR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Argentina% Grain Storage Project
(Credit 1521-AR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OMFl%IAL USE ONLY
PROJECT ,QXgg!W lQ1j,_jORT
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
L(gan 1521-AR)
TABLE OF CNETS
Paa. NSo.
Preface    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .          iii
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW -BANK PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Design and Preparation of the Original Project . . . . . .            4
Project Reformulation  .9. * * * ** . .   a..    . . . .. . . .       6
Project Implementation . . .         .  .  .  .  . . . . .  * . .  . . .  10
Procurement  . . . . ..   . . .    * ..    ..   . * * ..     * .    . . . .  16
Project Results  . . .. . . .. .. .* .    . . .  . . . .... .        17
Bank Performance . . . . . .  . *. . .  . . . . . . . . .  .         20
Borrower Performance o.rmance          ....................          20
Relationship between Bank and Borrower . . . . . . . . . .           21
Consulting Services  . a .. .         .......................        22
Project Documentation and Data ... ... . .   . . .. . .  ..   .      22
Conclusions and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           22
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW - BORROWER PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .           27
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .* .. .*.,. . . .   ......                  29
Table 1: Related B      ankLons      o s. .. .. .. . .. . .     . .  ... .    29
Table 2: Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .          32
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
A.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . .           34
B.  Time Line of Disbursement  . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  .         35
Table 4: Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .         36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table Ss Project Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
B.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
Table 6: Project Benefits
A. Direct Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
B. Finaneialmpacti..................                         40
C. Economic Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41
Table 7:DStatusdofCovenants ......................                    43
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
Be   Missions  .  ........         .  .  *  .  .  .            47
C*   Costs  .  .  .  .  . a  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  49
MAP IBRD 13012R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(Loan 152.-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Grain Storage
Project in Argentina, for which Ln. 1521-AR in the amount of US$105.0 million was
approved on February 21, 1978. The project was restructured in 1983 and the
amended loan of US$87.0 million was approved by the Board on a no-objection basis
on October 26, 1983. US$18.0 million were canceled. The final loan closing date
was December 31, 1987, one year behind schedule, but the loan account was held
open informally until June 30, 1988. US$14.6 million were canceled, and the last
disbursement was on July 15, 1988.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division,
Department IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III). The Borrower has not submitted Part II.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a supervision mission in
November 1987, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report and
President's Report and Memorandum, the Loan and Project Agreements and their
amendments, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda and interviews.
The report is handicapped by a lack of data on end of project results.
Attempts to obtain data from the principal Borrower agency and individual
participating agencies have been unsuccessful.



- 1ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(Loan 1521-AR)
EVALUATION SUNMARY
Background and Obiectives
1.        The original project (1978) Was designed to assist Argentina to export
grain more efficiently through construction of grain storage facilities and
associated rail and port improvements and in the process to open a dialogue with
the country on issues affecting the grain sector. Political and economic turmoil
from 1979 in Argentina caused the project to languish for several years with
minimal progress despite efforts by the Bank to resolve obstacles impeding
implementation.   Government support for the original project eroded rather
rapidly following negotiations and had largely disappeared by loan effectiveness.
The project was reformulated in 1983 with revised objectives and with a different
allocation of loan proceeds and important new financial covenants.
2.        The objectives of the reformulated project were:   (a) to assist
Argentina to export grain more efficiently; (b) to strengthen the financial
position of the Argentine Railways (FA) and to reduce dependence on government
subsidies; (c) to help improve the balance between public and private sector
responsibilities in grain ma?keting; and (d) to advance the development of
Argentina's relatively depressed northern regions.
3.        These objectives were to be achieved through the following components:
(a) construction of 22 public silos averaging 8,000 tons, all in northern
provinces; (b) credit for subloans to build private storage and handling
facilities; (c) purchase of 845 specialized grain rail wagons, and other rail
improvements; and (d) final design and engineering studies for future Bahia
Blanca port investments.
Implementation Exicerience
4.        The port studies and physical aspects of the rail component were
completed successfully, though implementation of the latter was delayed by a
prolonged  procurement   dispute   stemming   from  Comore  Argentino   laws.
Implementation of the Bank of the Argentine Nation (BRA) private credit line and
National Grain Board (JNG) silo construction program, however, experienced
serious difficulties.
5.        The Bank agreed, while acknowledging the element of risk, to include
the BNA private credit line in the project reformulation, but over-estimated



- iv -
BNA's operational preparedness. The technical and policy problems affecting the
component were not %rvercome uncil early 1986, when a surge in demand caused the
credit line to be committed within a year.
6.        The public silo program was hampered by the fluctuating commitment of
its lead agency (JNG), counterpart funding shortages, on-site physical problems
and slow procurement processes. A major constraint on project implementation
from the beginning was the rivalry between the Secretariat of Agriculture (SAGyP)
and the Ministry of Public Works (MOSP).   Extension of the closing date to
December 31, 1987 and leaving the loan account open for a further six months did
little to improve performance, and by loan closing only 70% of the component was
complete and there had been substantial cost overruns. Some US$14.4 million of
the US$87.0 million reformulated loan was eventually cancelled.
Proiect Results
7.        The project objectives (especially those of the reformulated project)
were ambitious, and available evidence suggests they were, for the most part, not
achieved. They depended on too high a degree of coordination between agencies;
on policy decisions which were beyond the scope or control of a single project;
and on a higher level of institutional performance than materialized.
8.        The Silo ComDonent. JNG silos were not complete by mid-1988 and, given
the need for about US$25.0 million in additional GOA funds, the outlook for
completion remains unclear. Argentine storage capacity is now just under 100Z
of production and almost 2.5 times the level at appraisal in 1977.
9.        An improvement in returns to growers through better prices and lower
marketing costs was an implied objective of storage construction under both the
original and reformulated projects. However, increased storage availability--
whether Bank-financed or otherwise--has not led to price improvement or better
phasing of grain marketing.  Pressure to sell in the immediate post-harvest
period remains acute on account of a complex mix of factors, (e.g., lack of
financial incentives and hedging instruments, competitive pressures at peak
periods, etc.) which go far beyond the availability of storage capacity per se.
In addition, returns to producers are depressed by export taxes and other
discriminatory measures which improved storage availability cannot countervail.
10.       BNA Credit.  The project sought to improve the public versus private
"balance" in grain marketing. However, the inclusion of public (JNG) and private
(BNA credit) storage components, unrelated to a thorough marketing analysis,
could not in itself create balance, if in fact this ambiguous idea had practical
meaning. Government policy and market forces had already combined to change the
grain marketing structure, and thus the credit line probably had a useful
incremental impact on private storage capacity.
11.       Rail Improvements.  The purchase of new rail wagons improved the FA's
carrying capacity, but this was insufficient in itself to promote higher volume
traffic, since unfinished silos, poorly maintained and allocated locomotives and
an inadequate number of spur sidings to grain storage points foreseen in the
project, inhibited unit train operations. The demanding financial targets set



-v -
under the project for the FA were overly optimistic given the shortfalls in
traffic, the political pressure to retain low tariffs and the chronic
institutional deficiencies of PA.
12.       Ports Componegt.   Bahia Blanca dredging and studies were executed
successfully and resulted in a subsequent port development project which, when
completed, will provide Argentina with a modern, deepwater grain terminal.
Optimal use of this facility will depend on a major GOA effort to alleviate
persistent transportation bottlenecke at the port and within the wider system.
13.       Institutional DevelopRiGtn. The project had some valuable institutional
benefits, actual and potential. The BNA gained experience lending for grain
storage (although this was a modest part of its overall operations) and its
relative efficiency and profitability have prompted its lead role in carrying out
the Agricultural Credit Project II (Ln. 2970-AR). Further, the project appears
to have contributed to a desire by new management at the FA for institutional
improvement, though this is still far from being achieved. Lastly, the project
experience demonstrated the urgent need to restructure the JNG as a pre-requisite
for further improvement in Argentine grain marketing.
Seustainabilitv
14.       The main issues of sustainability are institutional and financial.
Project-funded infrastructure and equipment will require efficient operation and
maintenance which presumes, based on the project experience, profound
improvements in the JNG and PA and commitment of the necessary funds. Further
moves to privatize JNG silos, as now proposed by the GOA would shift these
responsibilities.  Privatization of port silos, now also official Government
policy, will have significant implications for the Bahia Blanca port
improvements. Finally, the reorganization of FA is under active consideration.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
15.       The Argentina Grain Storage Project suffered from a number of problems
common to other Bank-financed grain storage projects, including the following:
(a) a concentration on infrastructural investment without taking adequate account
of the relationship between the project, its policy context and institutional
capacity; (b) discounting or overlooking the political strains and managerial
weaknesses of public agencies; (c) a reluctance to channel loan funds to the
private sector; (d) a lack of agro-industrial, marketirg and technical expertise
in the Bank itself, causing considerable reliance on consultants; and (e) a
concentration on broad strategic objectives to the detriment of practical
solutions.
16.       The stated core objective of both versions of the project was to
increase the efficiency of Argentina's grain exports. However, this was unlikely
to be achieved through a project almost 90% of which was expansion of public
storage capacity (original project), and which in any case lost Government
support  due  to the  ideological debate  over  storage privatization.    The



- vi -
reformulation introduced new objectives (strengthening the financial position of
the VA; advancing the development of the rorthern region) which, while perhaps
inherently desirable, were largely divorced from the original core objective of
the project.
17.       The lack of clarity in the project's rationale was exemplified in the
Bank's willingness first to undertake complex raformulation in mid-stream and
then to persist with the JNG silo component after it had become clear that
further public silo capacity was questionablo technically and inconsistent with
stated public policy. Indeed, the continued emphasis of the reformulated project
on silo construction illustrates a poor anal.ysis of the fundamental problem of
grain marketing in Argentina which, by tha, time of the reformulation, was
increasingly unrelated to the availability ot physical storage capacity.
18.       Over the years the project and its implementation were affected by
changing political commitment and chronic institutional weakness. Cancellation
wos debated frequently, but was always rejected following appeals for flexibility
and understanding. Nevertheless, the project should have been cancelled, either
during the stagnation of 1981-82, or during 1985 when there was still no activity
under the JNG silo or BRA credit components (i.e., the "storage" components),
some two years after Board approval of the amended loan.
19.       There are a number of other conclusions arising from the project as
follows: (a) the protracted mid-stream restructuring was, as time passed, driven
increasingly by staff determination to salvage what was believed to be a still
useful project, the Bank's broader concern to alleviate a critical balance of
payments situation, and the desire to avoid cancellation in the interest of
preserving country relations and linkages to other grain-related sectors (rail
and port); (b) supervision of the project suffered from discontinuity of staff
and from fragmentation of divisional effort resulting in the component parts
becoming mini-projects within a general framework; (c) procurement was mishandled
and the Bank's response was inadequate; and (d) the project coordinating unit was
unable to countervail existing bureaucratic antagonisms. Being situated within
a major implementing agency, it tended to foster that agency's interests, to the
detriment of project momentum and objectives.



PROJECT COHPglETO  REOT
ARGENTIM
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(Loan 1521-AR)
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW XROl BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identlty
Project Names       Grain Storage
Loan No.:            1521-AR
RVP Unit:           Latin America and the Caribbean
Countrys            Argentina
Sectors             Agriculture
Subsector:          Grains
Background
1.01       The Grain Storage Project, as originally conceived, was seen as
supporting regional development and export industry--both key targets for Bank
lending in the 1970e.  It originated in a 1974 request from the Argentine
Ministry of Economy for Bank assistance in financing a high-priority National
Grain Storage Program. The project came to be seen as complementing the growth
strategy of the military government, newly-installed in 1976, which sought to
strengthen the country's external payments position through the accelerated
development of sectors in which the country enjoyed comparative advantage.
1.02       From 1976 on, tLe new administration was pre-occupied with pressing
macroeconomic problems. It acted quickly to reduce the public sector deficit,
free prices and interest rates and correct the exchange rate. It saw its role
in the economy generally, and in agriculture in particular, as leaving all
productive activities to the private sector and ultimately limiting its role to
the purely regulatory. In the grain industry this meant the progressive removal
of export taxes,11 liberalization of the export trade, and proposed changes in
the Grain Law (Ley de Granos) that would allow private construction and operation
of port silos, and the National Grain Board (JNG) to lease and eventually sell
inland storage facilities.
1.03       Expansion of agricultural output under the new policy was constrained
by infrastructural weaknesses such as inadequate storage and port facilities and
inefficient transportation services. The many changes in government grain policy
which had taken place over previous decades, and frequent shifts in
responsibility for marketin8 between the public and private sectors, had
discouraged grain storage investment, with capacity of less than 50S of annual
production by 1977 and had impaired development of an efficient domestic and
it  Re-imposed in 1981.



2-
export marketing network. Lack of storage caused serious losses from open-air
deterioration and was seen at that time as an important factors' forcing
producers to sell at lowB prices immediately following harvest, and silo operatore
to push through as much grain as possible to maximize returns. This in turn put
pressure on a run-down transportation and port silo system and on exporters to
move  grain  out  to  export  rapidly.    This  contributed  to the  "Descuento
ArgentinollA' phenomenon, which, inter alia, the project sought to overcome.
Prolect Obiective  and Deacription
1.04        Le Oriinal Proiset.   With this background,  the Bank saw an
opportunity to inject order, economy and innovation into a poorly functioning
eystem that wasted natural advantage. At appraisa¾t the project objectives were
stated to be to: (a) reduce grain losses due to lack of storage and conditioning
facilities; (b) increase the efficiency of primary silo operations through the
introduction of large-scale silos; (c) provide producer incentives to grow more
graing (d) reduce costs of marketing and exporting grains; (e) increase producer
incomes through improved handling and storage, and greater marketing flexibility;
(f) supply grain reliably to export markets at more stable and higher prices; and
(g) facilitate access of intermediate-size grain carriers to the port of Bahia
Blanca.
1.05       These objectives were to be supported with a US$105 million loan which
concentrated on the provision of infrastructure but which placed little emphasis
on complementary institutional reforms. (See components in Table 1, page 4).
1.06       Project Reformulation.  In 1979, less than nine months after loan
effectiveness, the Government of Argentina (GOA) sought the conversion of the
silo component (some US$90.0 million) into a line of credit for private storage
investment, in accordance with its stated storage privatization policy. Ensuing
efforts to reformulate the project spanned four years and five changes of
government. The core problem was the unresolved issue of whether the JNG or the
private sector should be responsible for the storage complizc (which was seen by
some elements in the military government as a national) security matter
inappropriate for private control, especially if that control turned
monopolistic).
1.07      Amended loan documents were finally signed in January 1984 for a
restructured loan of US$87.0 million, US$18.0 million of the original loan being
cancelled. This supported a project with the same stated core objective plus
several new objectives with clear differences in both substance and emphasis.
The component mix and allocation of loan proceeds were markedly different and
were believed to be more in keeping with GOA policies and changed circumstances
(see Table 1, page 3).
V/ Project justification tended to highlight the storage deficit as a primary
cause of this pressure to sell and process grain rapidly.
3/ The adverse relationship between Argentine cereal and oilseed FOB prices and
those of export competitors.



Grain Soea-U     Prja-tb OA, lEI2-AR)
Table It P1o: eb Demseriatlon and Loan Ennanciny    Hist   llionl
Original ProT;                                              Refommaatd Proet
compa_dwt                     RMPIrion,                        Al l1"m DaersaU Al h                                                =
JCq  st!uctlon o0    ailos rver   ;ng         89.8        Construction of 22 silos averaging 8,U0          16.511
nf annl"tnc   M K3y tgns w tb repei 'in  *nd              t40s        ipprovoeints to 6 *xrsting
cona t on n  flC t%eS.                                     alo        I lo1 northorn provinces, and
computer equipment ?or JNG
DNA Credit Line                    N/A                                __         Through BNA sublogns to coop.ratives             22.6
pr  ucer ssoc ptions  grain prorg and
ae  ors. Tor private tcru9  and hand i ng
fac lltlo
EA Rasi Iway.         (a)  At    i;na to I           n box l7.                   (a) Purchase of 846 specialized grain            41.5
srxrcne nts         cars z   ogrItlsang rnd                                    ransta1Jatit9
mro  greot                                                raosrt (b)   e     a;t s o 0    unloading platforms
(b)    Irrmps t           e  gItered box                       n gr n,gapp na    pp          trn
-on   ,~ *  portn ot s hl Ire cr,                   (c)fsnntot ction of w p  ot'sriI  0 rans-
ahia *nac, (yon) irov;rntu  ait  t  anan  ranl
(c)      ae c   nes to ea  of the 20                          ta,tl nd
(d)    sK   B       at         t  cks a                   (d) loserf? oport raIl yard Improvemsnts.
Itnnr1;ion  tn Boaccss A     son
c. ~~9y~Ton ~       AWfe?ir   s
nPort    Pilot dro9dIing                  hi            2.7         (a) Prear  on of fInal design  nd4
rveyr     aR   lenc. access                              na mr no  nwst_ntn   tnd       l
9b)    uinl Tn'j,rp                                       ?At,eo ord  Tgc s    n         lstudios
(b)  0 iz9l  on twt son It ono c  c 
(c)     SCl:l?TI; ::nginrtng and
1      _n  *nd         (a)  TrainiTg of 14 Insp ctlon and             5.2              N/A
&RL              psyrrvIion ;Ursonne  for project
(b)   nt    Pto   f*  nctoY
(c)                             ad nin   prog&am within
* ezN Itoopp re  m naers and
mtefvt o op rC   project el los.15.870I
TetLd                                                               105.0                                                          87 0]
AJ sncluae  U011.9 million of addtlonal rall lmprovewnent for which JNI  was reaponsible.  Total rail improvements:  US$45.4 million.
2/ Also Included In the reformulated projset (i.e., partly completed under the original).
A/ Includes US$3.4 milion disbursed under original loan principally for rail Improvements (alterations to 2,0   grain box cars and gravity
ranps to handle such ctar), and pilot dredgting studies under the Bahia Blanca port improvemnt component.



- 4 -
1.08       The objectives of the reformulated project were to:   (a) assist
Argentina export larger quantities of grain in a more efficient manner throughout
the year; (b) strengthen the financial position of the Argentine Railways (FA)
and facilitate reduced dependence on government subsidies; (c) improve the
balance between public and private sector responsibilities in grain marketing;
and (d) advance the development of Argentina's relatively depressed northern
regions.
Design and Preparatlon of the Oriainal Project
1.09       Prolect Concept.  The project sought to provide new storage capacity
and to shift from small, scattered units to large systemized ones. The idea of
a network of very large storage units originated with the Borrower in 1974 and
was rapidly adopted and formulated by the Bank, the consultant team and the
FAO/CP who were responsible for project preparation.
1.10       In parallel with this concept, grain unit trainsG1 were envisaged
operating a continuous schedule between silos and ports. FA was required to
allocate complete trains for this purpose.5/ Yet the SAR (Report No. 1749-AR,
para. 5.04) admitted, "the grain unit train concept cannot be utilized with
existing rail track and rolling stock and the receiving facilities at the port
silos". This fact had important implications for projected benefits and for the
subsequent project reformulation, which retained the unit train concept.
1.11       Proiect Design.   A network flow model, prepared by the General
Directorate for Research and Development (DIGID),11 identified a need for ten
million tons of additional storage by 1984/85, based on a grain production
forecast of 38.4 million tons. The original (1974) project concept envisaged a
network of 250,000-ton silos for pure storage (i.e., excluding drying and
conditioning facilities) to be built and administered by the JNG, an idea it
favored while it held a virtual monopoly on grain trading. Such facilities would
have stored grain to avoid port-side congestion at harvest-time and to take
advantage of export price fluctuations.
1.12       In 1976 GOA policy reduced the JNG to a buyer of last resort to
maintain a price support program, and the grain trade including storage was
slated for privatization. The JNG decided to sell all primary silos to private
interests, retaining only port-based and underground facilities (although even
these were ultimately to be sold). Argentine law was modified accordingly.
These moves caused changes in project design and scope. Silo size was reduced
to 100,000 tons for primary and concentration purposes (i.e., drying and storage)
to enhance commercial appeal, although the unit cost of their construction
doubled as a result. In 1977, the Bank proposed initial leasing with an option
4/ Defined as a full 20-30 wagon train with a maximum of three origins and one
destination for a single commodity.
5/ Bank/JNG Project Agreement, June 29, 1978 Section 2.07.
6/ A consulting branch of the Argentine Armed Forces.



to buy, but even this was an uneasy compromise given the scarce private demand
for what remained very large, expensive structures.   The private sector had
traditionally built units with little over 10,000 tons capacity.
1.13       The DIGID model dictated silo construction in areas of greatest
deficit including some traditional areas and more marginal, emerging areas as yet
unattractive to private investment. Their large size and careful siting were
intended to produce economies of scale and management with linkages to cheaper
and more efficient rail transport to the ports of Bahia Blanca, Rosario and
Buenos Aires. The concept acknowledged eventual privatization through leasing
and possible sale of JNG units, but its roots were firmly planted in the public
domain through the JNG's virtually unassailable position in the system. Some
Argentine officials doubted the plan's practicality, and saw it as having only
passing interest to a military government intent on privatization, views shared
by some senior Bank managers.
1.14       Inclusion of the small rail and Bahia Blanca port components met with
some initial resistance from Bank staff on the grounds that they were seemingly
marginal elements believed to be non-essential to project success. This view
denied the point raised by several critics of the original proposal--that full
effectiveness of the planned silos indeed required a far superior rail-handling
and transportation system than then existed. The reformulated project later
acknowledged this and, to the extent possible, tried to address it.
1.15       The Bahia Blanca channel dredging study relied on a conceptual link
to more economical future grain exports and the fact that few questioned
Argentina's need for a deep-water port. While Bahia Blanca was far distant from
some major grain producing areas it was the only viable site for such a port.
The Bank had long nurtured the idea of a Bank-financed port improvement scheme
for Bahia Blanca, but GOA funding for the required studies was unavailable
chiefly because it had alternative plans for a new port along the coast at Punta
Medanos, a pharaonic scheme viewed with skepticism by the Bank.
1.16       Pro1ect  Management.    A  Project  Committee  (PC),  made  up  of
representatives of project line agencies with full responsibility for silo
construction, rail improvements and overall project management and execution, was
set up within the JNG and chaired by the Secretariat of Agriculture (SAGyP). A
Project Executing Unit (PEU) under the PC's authority would carry out its
decisions and daily management of the silo and rail components, supported by
consultants.   There was early evidence during project preparation of likely
jurisdictional rivalries, with the Ministry of Economy, for example, insisting
(in direct representations to the Bank) on its having the lead role with SAGyP
support.   The PC structure did not heed these sensitivities, with the PC
chairmanship going to SAGyP and real power (e.g., head of the PEU) to the JNG.1'
This in turn brought out the intense and damaging rivalry between SAGyP and MOSP
V   It is not clear how this came aobut given that the Ministry of Economy is
a so-called "overriding" agency to which SAGyP (and JNG) are subordinate.
The answer probably lies in Ministries' delegation of operational matters
to agencies, regardless of organizational formalities.



-6
(specifically, the JNG and MOSP's Department of Grain Elevator Construction,
(DNCEG)).
1.17       Proiect PreDaration.  Project preparation took several years longer
than anticipated, chiefly because the analytical task assigned to DIGID by
specialist consultants retained by the Bank to work within the DIGID team--to
determine an optimal configuration of the grain storage system with
organizational,  institutional and financial aspects--was  quite beyond its
capabilities.   Delays also reflected the absence of central management and
assignment of responsibility (the PC and PEU were created relatively late) and
the poor working relationship between the JNG and DIGID. Considerable FAO/CP and
Bank input was required to evaluate, test and modify the storage model. The
FAO/CP team felt pressured by the appraisal schedule and complained that its
report could not do justice to its field work, and thus the Bank appraisal
mission, which followed right on the heels of the FAOtCP mission, was believed
to lack a well-organized and complete reference document.
1.18       Greater effort might have been made to contact interested groups at
the lower levels, e.g. cooperatives, labor groups and smaller producer
associations, to promote the project's concept and objectives.
Proiect Reformulation
1.19       The GOA proposal in late 1979 to convert the project to a line of
credit for private storage construction was compatible with the GOA's general
privatization philosophy, its stated plans for the JNG, and was seen as an anti-
spending measure at a time of 150Z annual inflation.   However, the plan to
channel the US$90 million silo component of the Bank loan through an intermediary
to private investors to build much smaller silos on the same DIGID model sites
caused the Bank great concern for a number of reasons. First, the GOA intended
at the same time to cancel an existing IDB/BNA private silo credit line for lack
of interest.   Second, there were serious problems over subloan terms and
conditions, an issue which had already contributed to the cancellation of the
Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1564-AR). Third, the reduced silo size would
limit economic benefits and not relieve marketing pressures. Finally, the Bank
would lose control of project integration and linkage to other planned
ojierations, e.g., Bahia Blanca port development and other potential follow-on
operations which would complement the planned silo system.
1.20       Ensuing attempts to restructure the project spanned four especially
turbulent years in Argentine history, with modifications being agreed in
principle only to fail because successive governments were either too short-lived
or lacked the political resolve to take the institutional measures necessary to
amend the legal documents. Incoming administrations reserved the right to review
their predecessors' policies, producing an unstable policy environment which
inhibited resolution of important aspects of draft proposals. At issue were
decisions concerning, inter alia, investment incentives, indexation, credit, the
budget, institutional roles, and the unresolved matter of grain trade
privatization. The Bank's ability to maintain momentum was also frustrated by
frequent changes of agency leadership, and the perception was, at key points,
that no one was in charge.



- 7 -
1.21      The JNG at first defended enthusiastically the GOA's 1979 decision to
convert the project to a line of credit for private storage investments, claiming
public silo construction was inefficient, costly and subject to extended delays
(a candor reflecting imediate political realities and its poor relationship with
the Ministry of Public Works). Over time, however, it reverted to supporting the
inclusion of a public sector silo component, thus re-asserting its traditional
role as silo builder, despite stated GOA policy and increasingly strong evidence
that private interests were willing to do the job. The core of the project--
grain storage--was in fact always governed by the JNG and to a lesser extent
SAGyP, both more prone to support a continued dominant public role. As time
passed, with their pressure to keep it public and little support for private
credit, including from the Bank, meaningful debate ceased and progress stagnated.
1.22      In late 1981, cancellation of around US$83.0 willion of the loan
seemed likely, due to: (a) disbursements totalling only 42 of the loan; and (b)
the very modest size of a tentative Argentine proposal then under consideration.
The PA almost immediately presented a Bank mission with an extensive list of
urgently-needed equipment and received prompt in-principle approval on the
grounds that "investment in the rail transport system for grains may be as
economically justified as the construction of silos under the prevailing
circumstances, and the public sector's role in the field is undisputed".1' It
therefore became "a proposal for converting a non-disbursing agricultural project
with a small transport component to one in which the major component will be
transport". Clearly, the Bank wished to avoid cancellation of loan funds even
if this meant a reformulated project considerably different from the original in
substance and emphasis (see table, page 4).9/ Furthermore, the Bank had always
sought to establish a direct link between the grain storage and possible Bahia
Blanca operations,-°1 and Ln 1521-AR was seen as an appropriate vehicle to
maintain momentum and funds were available.
1.23      Loan cancellation was proposed several times during 1982 on the
grournds that too much time had elapsed since project effectiveness and that the
GOA was in breach of the Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a), which entrusted it not
to impede project implementation.   However, other considerations prevailed.
First, there was continued optimism that, despite everything, a useful proposal
might materialize in time, and Ln. 1521-AR was the only on-going Bank-financed
agricultural project in Argentina, following cancellation in 1980 of the
Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1564-AR). Second, the Borrower's payment of
commitment fees of 0.75Z per annum on approximately US$100.0 million, appeared
to give it a certain claim (tacitly acknowledged by the Bank) for an opportunity
to re-program the funds."' Finally, there was a growing awareness of balance
8/  Memorandum, December 18, 1981.
it  Memorandum, May 18, 1983.
101 Memorandum, January 17, 1980.
Commitment  fees  paid  by  the  Borrower  under  Ln.  1521-AR  between
August 28, 1978 and July 22, 1988 totalled US$6.17 million.



-8-
of payments considerations, which were described in a letter of December 17, 1982
to the Argentine Minister of Economy ae the "main purpose of the project" (an
assessment also aimed at promoting the project's importance and securing real
actions by the Borrower).
1.24       A concrete proposal finally emerged in late 1982, including both
public (JNG) and private (BNA) credit components, plue amplified rail and port
aspects.   The long delays which had already taken place, fears of further
obstacles arising to disrupt project reformulation possibly beyond repair, and
the optimistic outlook for downstream improvements under the incoming democratic
administration, lent a sense of urgency to subsequent full-scale preparation and
re-appraisal.
1.25       JNG Silos.  Based on an Argentine consultant's background report, the
analysis of the reformulated silo component appears to have been weak and
attracted considerable criticism.   The report lacked, inter alia, economic
analysis of the grain storage situation with and without the project.   The
analysis was subsequently re-done focussing on the avoidance of grain losses as
the component's major source of benefits. Neither the original analysis nor the
improved version is in the record, and hence it is not possible to make a direct
assessment for this report. However, evidence suggests that while the revised
analysis was considered an improvement, its underlying assumptions and their
justifications were still not compelling, but time did not permit further
examination and refinement.
1.26       The private sector had on its own initiative more than doubled total
storage capacity in traditional areas between 1977 and 1983, and legitimate
grounds for doubt did therefore exist about the need for a JNG role even in the
North, where JNG maintained there was little private interest in investing. In
fact, by 1986 substantial private storage investment was indeed occurring in
northern regions and on at least one occasion in direct competition with a
planned JNG site. However, in 1983 a Bank mission acknowledged the northern
storage deficit to be acute. Thus it seemed reasonable to support a continued
public role in establishing a developmental anchor which had, on the face of it,
a valid demonstrator effect and political benefits from showing that the
Government was concerned about regional development and income distribution in
economically depressed areas.
1.27       BNA Credit.  The inclusion of a credit component met resistance from
senior Bank management and was initially rejected, principally because the
magnitude of changes in the grain marketing structure in the 5.5 years since the
project was first appraised (May, 1977) clearly merited complete reappraisal,
including an assessment of demand. The implied further delays were unacceptable
to the Bank. A vital question was whether the private sector needed the credit
to do what it had already been doing steadily and effectively without credit for
a number of years. By 1983 Argentine grain storage capacity had reached 80Z of
production and there was little reason to believe this was not an ongoing trend.
(A 1985 JNG study revealed that storage capacity had reached 100Z of production,
up 202 in the intervening two years, and equal to the ratio of its major export
competitors, during which the BNA silo credit line had not yet become



9
operational) .*12
1.28      Nevertheless, the credit component was subsequently included, chiefly
at GOA insistence, without formal re-appraical or evidence of demand, and with
conditionality that reflected the Bank's skepticism about its chances of
succeeding and wish not to prolong matters if the component did not progreas
satisfactorily. The reasons for the component's inclusion were severals (a) GOA
insistencel (b) the Bank's belief that privatization merited encouragement'
(although this was not based on formal analysis of the component itself); (c) the
decision to risk the component in lieu of reducing further the amended loan
amount at a time of acute GOA need for the funds; and (d) the possibility of
forging a new relationship with the BNA following the unfortunat;e experience with
the cancelled Agricultural Credit Project.
1.29      The component was presented to the Board in October 1983 as part of
the reformulation in an incomplete state of definition, lqcking precise terms and
conditions, policies and procedures (i.e., credit regulations, which were not
received until after loan effectiveness), or a decision on responsibility for
counterpart funding between the BRA, Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy.
This was complicated in turn by August 1983 changes in Argentine banking rules,
and credit restraints which deprived the BEA of Central Bank-held fuwds it had
earmarked for counterpart funding.  Thus, compliance with the loan covenant
requiring that 20Z of the loan allocation for BRA's credit line be committed by
December 31, 1984 was already in jeopardy.
1.30      Bahia Blanca.  The relative unanimity on the need for Bahia Blanca
port improvements and continued lack of GOA resourcei made the existence of
substantial unused funds under the Grain Storage Project a potential vehicle for
bringing the planned port operation ahead to an advancod stage of preparation.
While a port project had been appraised in 1980, the prolonged hiatus in the
Grain Storage Project and changed circumstances (including, the dropping of the
original JNG silo complex) required economic re-assessment, leading potentially
to a very different project. The component therefo-e focused on further studies,
including final designf. for potential future port investments.
1.31      Rail Improvements. The rail component was well over half the amended
loan and, in addition to its physical aspects, it was intended to achieve
substantial operational and financial improvements in PA's grain operations.
Official documents went further, describing the rail objectives in terms of
improvements in the PA overall, both in its financial position and its dependence
on GOA subsidies. The principal omissions in what was otherwise a meticulous
analysis were: (a) a description of overall track and equipment conditiong
(b) likely future locomotive availability; (c) FA institutional capacity; and (d)
GOA constraints on FA tariff increases.
1.32      The analysis stated: "With the replacement of obsolete wagons, working
and operating deficiencies would turn into surpluses". This, however, required
21 Confirming the private sector's readiness to use ite own funds to avoid
borrowing in unstable conditions.



- 10 _
substantial increases in grain tariffs and traffic as well as the use of grain
unit trains. Tariff increases were pivotal to component success for a number of
reasons including: (a) a covenant seeking a reduction in FA's working ratio for
grain to 65% by 19861-' (b) a financial return (from tariff increases) of 12S
by 1986 and planned 5-102 reduction in GOQA subsidies to FA; (c) significant
reduction of the estimate4 60-75Z disparity between rail and truck charges for
grain shipments; and (d) expense and debt service requirements under the loan,
which financed 80Z of the proposed wagon purchases (US$35.7 million of the loan)
and had to be paid off by FA in ten years.
1.33       The tariff and working ratio conditionality was seen aS a justified
quid pro Lu  for giving PA some US$46.0 million in loan funds for rail equipment
and improvements through a grain storage project at a time when the Bank was
dealing with serious implementation problems under Railways II (Ln. 1677-AR).
The Bank viewed these investments as vital to the PA system and unlikely to be
obtained through other Bank operations in the near future. The 65X ratio was
believed to be reasonable and achievable. The ratio at the time of appraisal was
around 200.'41
Proiect Imvlementat ion
1.34       Effectiveness.   Loan effectiveness (August 1984) was delayed ten
months from Board presentation, and implementation stagnated for at least another
year. The delays resulted from: (a) the legal review and signature of the many
subsidiary agreements resulting from project complexity and the need to ensure
inter-agency cooperation; (b) the new Government's difficulties in tackling
economic stagnation, high external debt and hyper-inflation, coupled with its
desire to review critically the policies of its predecessor, especially banking
and credit policy; and (c) the inability of the economic team to get the
appropriate public agencies to move on implementation (which in turn underscored
the weakness of the PC).
1.35       Prolect Management. The reformulated project inherited the PC and PEU
of its predecessor with some membership changes consistent with the new design.
Further, the amended loan agreement re-located the PC outside the JNG. The
Argentine negotiating team asked that roles and responsibilities be set down
clearly in the amended loan agreement and this was done, Lat in itself it could
not, and did not, guarantee performance.
L3/  Defined in the President's Memorandum as "operating expenses exclusive of
depreciation, over operating revenues."
'1  Action Plan component under the Second Railway Project (Ln. 1677-AR) set
quantitative targets to improve PA operations and finances. Substantial
staff and rail service cutbacks, improved productivity and promising freight
figures by 1983 boded well for the working ratio condition under Ln. 1521-
AR.  However, these improvements were not sustained and, combined with
failure to increase tariffs as planned, most Action Plan targets were not
achieved.



- 11 -
1.36       The PC never worked well, especially as a vehicle for making decisions
that affected member agencies.  It lacked any notion of a unified project
approach and in many cases hindered rather than helped implementation.   It
reflected, in miniature, long-standing institutional frictions which overrode
responsible promotion and execution of the project (para. 1.16). The principal
exception was the BRA which managed, despite obstacles, to carry out its
responsibilities well, although its audit performance was lax.U'
1.37       Organizational weaknesses were especially evident in the re-allocation
of loan funds in late 1986. The Bank pressed the JNG to focus on constructing
just one "package" or group of silos thus permitting the re-allocation of about
US$14.0 million of loan funds to the BNA credit line, but wan repeatedly
overruled by the JNG which apparently wished to retain control of the funds
regardless of the effects on the project. The unassailable position of the JNG
meant there was no one on the PC to whom the Bank could appeal for better use of
the funds. About US$10.0 million was ultimately cancelled from this component.
1.38       The PEU tended to reflect these same stresses and agency loyalties and
WaS unable to affect the course of events.11 This was especially important in
the conflict between Cmbre Araegtino rules (para. 1.57) and the Bank's ICB
requirements which required a determined, independent approach quite beyond this
unit.
1.39       JNG Silos.  The public silo component had not been started by the
December 31, 1986 loan closing date.  This resulted from:  (a) difficulties
encountered by SAGyP in obtaining clearances for international tenders from the
Secretariat of Industry and Foreign Trade and then from the Ministry of Economy;
(b) inefficiencies in the JNG, the component's executing agency; (c) limited
budget and manpower to implement tendering and contracting; and (d) unanticipated
subsoil conditions at silo sites, requiring additional preparatory work,
1.40       Given the project's troublesome history, the December 31, 1986 closing
date assumed special significance, and the GOA request for extension met with
divided opinion within the Bank. Arguments in favor of extension stressed the
following:  (a) the effective implementation period had been only 2.5 yearsl
(b) the project complemented the ongoing Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2675-AR);
(c) the Bank did not wish to have its re-allocation requests interpreted as
favoring the private sector and depriving the GOA of its right to choose; and
(d) ICB tenders for JNG silos finally were in full progress.
1.41       Arguments against extension stressed that it would condone and prolong
the mismanagement underlying much of the delay and that: "Despite GOA's decision
to continue with JNG silo works, it is contrary to its policy stressing
131 Project staff noted that BNA representatives were usually absent from PC/PEU
meetings and discovered that in fact they were not invited.
,L6 The PEU was headed and controlled by JNG engineers. The Under-Secretary of
Agriculture depended heavily on the PEU for project guidance.



- 12 -
privatization."II' Project staff were almost uniformly opposed to extension.
Nevertheless, following a high-level Bank mission to Argentina, an exteneion wae
granted to December 31, 1987 in order to finance silo contracts awarded not later
than January 30, 1987 and with other conditions pertaining to timely audit and
SOE submission. No automatic re-allocation of project funds in the event of non-
performance by JNG (an option which had earlier been considered) was included.
1.42       Performance did not improve, principally due to continued lack of
funds to pay contractors and to subsoil problems at sites, although it is clear
that inefficiency and lack of commitment were also key factors. A thorough
supervision by a consultant in late 1987 revealed some 402 not yet started and
only three silos beyond 50% complete. Nevertheless, further promises by the JNG
elicited the Bank's favorable consideration of a six-month informal opening of
the loan account.
1.43       In Nay 1988 a request was received from the Undersecretary of
Agriculture (also head of the PC) and the President of the JNG for another
extension to the end of December 1988, which would include a re-allocation of
unused loan funds from other components to complete the silos to 902.
Substantiating data were promised but only a partial and unconvincing assessment
was sent. It showed an overall completion rate of about 70Z, substantial cost
overruns, and further revealed that even if the silos were completed, additional
GOA funds would be needed for ancillary facilities not previously included in the
silo contracts. The real price was 402 above the original estimate. The loan
account was accordingly closed on June 30, 1988.
1.44       The silo c0otaerLt was the least satisfactory of all the components
of this project.  Th*tg>#P''to have been a lack of respect for contracts and
deadlines, and the li#lief that protracted payment of commitment fees meant
indefinite access to ., 1o4   The JNG saw the silos principally as a means to
protect its own intere*i  w,ehii the Bank did not acknowledge until too late that
public silos were contti%i'to ;he GOA's stated privatization goals.*"  With the
passage of time, the ned *4 the public silos became increasingly dubious as
private entrepeneurs wert' b&ih willing and able to meet the storage needs of the
sector, even in the northern region.
1.45       BNA Credit. The BNA was not adequately equipped to promote the line
of credit until 1985. It was unclear about basic aspects of the component's
execution and made a series of attempts to divide the country by region,
allocating special rates and waiting for demand to surface. Prevailing economic
conditions and the many internal requirements for subloan approval dampened sub-
borrower interest, includingt (a) FA insistence that private silos be sited on
its rail sidings; (b) JNG opposition to credit for traders, cooperatives and
mills despite broad agreement that these were among the target investors; and (c)
AZ1 Memorandum, November 6, 1986.
RI Memorandum, November 6, 1986.



- 13 -
unnecessarily small size limitations of under 7,000 tons.-11
1.46      In view of these problems, the BRA had no chance of meeting the Bank's
targeted 202 commitment by December 1984. The 202 commitment condition was an
exit clause for the Bank, which was unlikely to control the BNA'o performance
against the tide of cther events and as time passed, unlikely to be invoked. It
was a surrogate for the failure to undertake the formal re-appraisal required to
justify the credit component on its own merits. The Bank also thereby involved
itself in another series of extension-seeking processes which heightened the
overall sense of frustration and, with hindsight, underscored the pitfalls of
inadequate preparation.
1.47      The Bank refused to eliminate the commitment target and re-imposed a
402 requirement for December 1985 to: (a) maintain control and prevent delays
affecting overall project implementation; and (b) avoid cancellation of over 251
of the loan. Real progress occurred in 1985 but was suppressed by a tightening
of BRA lending terms reflecting the Government's general interest rate policy,
and causing sub-borrowers to freeze applications pending a possible reversal.
Thus the intention to spur progress in sub-loan commitments to 40Z by the end of
1985 also failed. A further tightening of terms in early 1986 was accepted by
sub-borrowers when they realized that the Bank supported the Government"s
interest rate policy, and alternative credit was unavailable. Demand increased,
and 1002 commitment of the credit line was achieved by the loan closing date of
December 31, 1986.
1.48      By 1987 some 76 subloans had been approved and disbursed, totalling
US$18.1 million. Total planned storage capacity was around 1.5 million tons.
US$4.4 million was unused either because sub-borrowers withdrew or cost savings
were achieved during construction.
1.49      Rail Comiponent.  This component met its physical targets, including
alterations to 2,000 grain boxcars.   This was achieved despite delays in
receiving 302 of narrow gauge wagons due to a protracted procurement dispute
(para. 1.58). The working ratio for grain was improved substantially but did not
achieve the targeted 652. The ratio was 1352 by the end of 1987 (no data were
ever provided for 1986, the target year for achieving the 65Z ratio), decreasing
further to 1122 for the first quarter by 1988 (latest available data - see table,
page 15).
1.50      Financial  results  of  the  FA  deteriorated  over  the  project
implementation period for the following reasons: (a) GOA regulatory constraints
on rail tariff increases--a limitation well-known to staff at the time of
appraisal--prevented the generation of revenues sufficient to cover inflationary
costs (in the implementation period, FA salaries and wages rose, manpower
remained high despite earlier staff cutbacks, and labor productivity was low);
(b) lack of resources for locomotive maintenance prevented the heavier loads
9/ The average-sized facility for which subloans were eventually granted was
19,250 tons although the range was wide--220-145,000 tons. Two-thirds ended
up being under 10,000 tons.



- 14 -
planned; (c) forecast increases in total rail grain traffic did not materialize
for this reason as well as unstable political and economic conditions (some 3.6
million tons only were carried in 1987, compared to the forecast 11.5 million
tons); (d) the PA claimed that delays in silo construction prevented the use of
unit traine, but it is unlikely that rolling stock conditions and the inadequate
number of spur-sidings to grain storage points foreseen in the project would have
permitted such operations even with the silos completed; (e) deliveries of narrow
gauge wagons remained incomplete by mid-19881 and (f) there were chronic
institutional failings in the FA.
1.51       The latter was in fact at the heart of the PA's inability to achieve
the working ratio target and in large part explains the other failings. The
following selected findings of a recent Bank study4' have immediate relevance
to the rail financial resultes
(a) Despite clear provisions in the law, the GOA has repeatedly
interfered in FA's pricing. On the other hand, its commercial
disorientation and reluctance to risk losing traffic (with union
implications) have caused FA to evade the tariff issue. It is
not clear that the FA wanted to raise tariffs to the needed
levels even if GOA flexibility permitted. (Considerable tariff
increases did occur, but were not cost-based);
(b) PA has largely lost control over labor costs and staff
productivity, despite sporadic efforts to reduce staff and
improve output. FA's excessive labor force is totally paid for
by Government's contribution to operating costs. First quarter
of 1988 results for grain operations (see following table) show
labor as 60S of variable costs on both the wide and narrow gauge.
Details of fixed costs were not provided by PA, but it is
believed the labor share may be even higher;
(c) While FA consistently (and correctly) reports itself short of
locomotives and unable to maintain adequately those it has, the
actual situation is more complex. For example, PA gives absolute
priority in locomotive allocation to passenger services with
freight   allocation   largely   residual.           Allocational
inconsistencies are evident between the wide and narrow gauge
despite the former carrying the majority of traffic. The overall
maintenance system, including spare parts purchasing and
management, i equally inconsistent. The FA's claim that poor
track inhibited unit trains is refuted by Bank staff who describe
PA track as generally over-maintained, although there is
apparently little correlation between traffic levels and track
condition;
(d) Rail traffic volume, including freight, has stagnated or declinec
201  "Argentina--Transport Public Sector Enterprises", Volume I and Annexes 2 and
3, Report No. 7496-AR.



- 15 -
since 1970 while revenue levels and cost structure have not
improvedt and
(e) PA's annual deficit represents a major fiscal problem for the
notion and the level of GOA subsidies has risen steadily,
especially since 1984.
Against such a backdrop, the rail objectives as stated appear especially
optimistic, even for grains.
Variable Costs and Revenues of Grain Movement
Jasnuary-March. 1988 ('000 Australes)
Wide Gauge      S      Narrow Gauge       Z
Variable Costs:
Staff                               3,216.0       61       3,237.1          60
Oil and Lubrication                 1,197.3       23       1,150.0          21
Miscellaneous                         861.8       16        1,047.7         19
Total         5,275.1       100       5,434.8        100
16 
Total Cost:                        17,372.6               10,424.1
Revenues:                          19,807.8                4,995.4
Working Ratio (both lines): 112S
6t Fixed costs not provided in itemized form.
Sources FA, August 1988
1.52      Bahia Blanca.  The original Bahia Blanca integrated port improvement
concept envisaged and indeed depended upon the Grain Storage Project's planned
network of 20 silos feeding the port, but once that plan began to collapse, the
port project had to be re-analyzed to ensure that it would be fully justified
without the silo linkage. The pilot dredging study under the original project
provided justification for actual dredging and suggested the need for on-shore
improvements. The Bank had originally considered financing the dredging, but a
Dutch/Russian consortium was retained, the Ruesians having a particular interest
as important grain buyers and users of the port.
1.53      In 1984 the port development plan was split into two phases, on-shore
Bahia Blanca I and II. The proposed Bahia Blanca Project I was reformulated
after an explosion in Port Silo 5, which re-oriented the engineering study
towards rehabilitation of the damaged silo.   A major dispute arose after
signature due to complaints from firms not selected and procedural irregularities



- 16 _
in the pre-qualification of consultants revealed by the Argentine Comptroller
General.   The dispute was resolved by the direct intervention of President
Alfonsin.   Phase I is now an ongoing project (Ln. 2805-AR), largely one of
rehabilitation.
1.54      Phase II studies for Bahia Blanca Project II port-side development were
completed but are now on hold becauee the GOA has been considering privatization
of port silos, which the Bank fully supports and for which ministerial approval
to proceed has now been given.
1.55      The Bahia Blanca component was useful and succeseful.  Studiea were
needed, loat. funds were available, and the level of inter-agency cooperation
reflected progressively-improved Borrower oupport. MOSP also developed its own
high-quality traffic allocation model on inland and seaward transportation whicl
became the basic document for the consultants' preparation of the Phase I
project.
Procurement
1.56,     There were two major cases of mishandled procurement, involving the FA
grain wagon and JNG silo components, the former taking almost two years to
resolve. These problems emanated chiefly from conflict between Compre Argentino
regulations and the Bank's procurement guidelines.   In both cases, the Bank
exhibited flexibility and a reluctance to take strong action when the rules were
clearly being broken.
1.57      Comgre AraentinoU1 is a closely-held and tightly-enforced policy
whose rules have posed serious problems for certain Bank projects and have been
discussed frequently with the GOA.  Nominally the Bank has an exemption through
the international status of its agreements, but in practice this has not carried
much weight, although the situation has improved after the Bank insisted on
tighter assurances. The review process for authorization to import requires such
time and effort that project implementing agencies are unwilling to run the
gauntlet of the legal system, union power and political appeals to national
sovereignty.
1.58       Wagon Procurement.  The PA rejected the lowest evaluated bid for 295
narrow gauge grain wagons by simply ignoring the firm's freight quote, claiming
Ul  The Compre Argentino law is a "decreto ley", promulgated in 1963 by the then
military government and having the force of a law passed by Congress.  In
practice, the law has been an impediment to the efficient and cost-effective
acquisition of goods by the public sector.  It obligates all public sect6r
agencies and entities to purchase exclusively Argentine goods, provided this
can be achieved at a reasonable price.  Argentine goods are defined as
products manufactured in Argentina using raw materials or other inputs
produced in Argentina. A price is considered reasonable if it does not
exceed the cif price of imported goods plus a margin of 252 of sueh cif
price to cover tariffs, taxes and other charges (or more than 25X if such
additional costs are higher).



- 17 -
it was unrealistically low, and substituting a higher rate. The Bank repeatedly
and firmly rejected FA's justifications.   Further problems arose when the
Manufacturers' Association claimed there was a local maker of the wagon air
brakes, even though the firm was bankrupt and unable to supply. High-level GOA
intervention was required to override FA's position backed by Bank threats to re-
allocate the respective funds, although the Bank waited inordinately long (almost
two years) to reach this stage, principally because it believed the FA's
acquisition of these assets was absolutely essential. The record shows, however,
the rapidity with which resolution followed the Bank's threat of funds re-
allocation. Delivery proceeded but was incomplete by loan closing.
1.59      Silo Procurement. In the interests of not delaying project execution,
the Bank approved bid evaluations for five JNG silo packages despite serious
flaws in ICB tenders including documents altered after Bank approval to restrict
foreign participation, and annexes distributed with tender documents without Balk
clearance. The Bank relied too heavily on a consultant with inadequate knowledge
of its procurement requirements, and did not pick up the errors until the bid
evaluation review. Project staff concluded that despite divergences from Bank
guidelines, all tenders were fair, competitive, and drew substantial foreign
participation. 221 However the OPS Procurement Unit, while conceding the
pressing reasons for going ahead with procurement, disagreed with the overall
assessment, stating: "The Bank would be fully justified in not accepting these
contracts on the basis of any one of several basic errors," and "no conclusions
should be drawn that competition was not seriously marred by provisions requiring
mandatory associations of foreign and local firms, restricted eligibility,
etc."231
1.60      These events reflected the d4*szemination of the Argentine Government
to direct contracts to domestic supplie-.  In the grain wagon case, almost two
years of Bank explanation of the rules t..iled to sway the PA's decision until
high-level intervention and threat of cancellation forced the issue.   The
possibility of misunderstanding, if indeect it existed, underscores the importance
of standardized Bank/Borrower brief ingo si project outset and at critical points
throughout implementation backed by app?' rwiate entries in the loan agreement
setting out the specific exemptions to 2.ta Argentine procurement laws which
should apply to all Bank-financed procuremer . If serious circumvention of Bank
guidelines does occur, it is crucial that i'. not go unpenalized (and there have
been several instances in Argentina of the pptication of penalties).  Informing
the Borrower ex _ost that Bank leniency in cue case should not be interpreted as
a precedent for the next, as occurred in this project, serves no purpose.
Proiect Results
1.61      With the caveat that future provision by the Borrower of end-of-
project data and/or a Borrower's report might cause some re-assessment, the
following is a tentative sammary of project results.
22  Memorandum, January 6, 1987.
231 Memorandum, January 28, 1987.



- 18 -
1.62       Project objectives were diverse *nd complicated.  The stated core
objective, to assist Argentina export larger quantities of grain in a more
efficient manner throughout the year, Implied a level of integration which could
not flow from the project itself an. which needed a far superior level of
institutional performance throughout the grain marketing chain, including
operation and maintenance of infrastructure.
1.63       JNG silos were not complete by mid-1988 and, given the need for about
US$25.0 million in additional GOA funds, the outlook for their completion is
unclear. The extent of their contribution to northern development is not known
but private initiatives may well have progressively reduced the relevance of the
JNG investment. The carrying capacity of the PA grain fleet was enhanced by the
purchase of new wagons, but their effectiveness was diminished by other,
offsetting inadequacies (largely institutional), detailed in para. 1.51. Bahia
Blanca studies resulted in a subsequent port development project, which, when
complete, will provide Argentina with a modern, deepwater grain terminal.
Optimal use of this facility will depend on a major GOA effort to alleviate
reported, persistent transportation bottlenecks at the port and within the wider
System.
1.64       The grain operating ratio was improved substantially, but it is
concluded that the PA had little chance of achieving the targeted ratio of 652.
The operational results for grain can, technically, be separated from overall
operations, but it would be unrealistic to expect that the more massive, system-
wide failings at PA would not impinge upon grain operations, suppressing better
performance.   In practice,  the 65Z represented the end of a process of
Improvement tantamount to a total restructuring of FA. The project approach was
necessarily partial and therefore the target was much more difficult to achieve.
1.65       The project sought to improve the public versus private "balance" in
grain marketing. However, the inclusion of public (JNG) and private (BNA credit)
storage components, unrelated to a thorough marketing analysis, could not in
itself create balance, if in fact this idea had any meaning.   In practice,
government policy and market forces combined to change the grain marketing
structure and thus the credit line probably had a useful incremental impact
confirming a well-established trend towards private storage.
1.66       Improved returns to growers through better prices derived from a less
pressured and more efficient grain marketing environment was an implied objective
of storage construction under both the original and reformulated projects.
However, increased storage availability--whether Bank-financed or otherwise--has
not led to price improvement or better phasing of grain marketing. Argentine FOB
cereal and oilseed prices were, and still are, at a pronounced discount to world
prices, while farmers receive only 50-602 of the export price, a lower proportion
than any of their export competitors, principally because of export taxes and
other discriminatory measures which improved storage supply cannot override.
1.67       Pressure to sell in the immediate post-harvest period remains acute
owing to the continued existence of a complex mix of factors, including: (a) the
pivotal importance of cereals/oilseeds to export tax revenues (para 1.66);
(b) pressure to pay off financial obligations; (c) lack of pre-commercialization



- 19 -
credit and inventory financing; td) pricing power of multi-nationals; (e) lack
of hedging instruments; (f) competitive pressure among the multitude of domestic
and FOB sellers at peak periods; and (g'  the Grain Board's intervention to
purchase about 70-802 of total domestic wheat requirements depresses the forward
price (i.e., JNG receives subsidized rates on its borrowings to finance
intervention which means that private storage is uneconomical).   In short,
producers continue to have only limited ability or incentive to carry their
product following harvest. The pressure to sell rapidly in fact means that much
available on-farm storage remains unused.M'
1.68       Estimates of current Argentine grain storage capacity range from 32.0
to 34.0 million tons, compared to 13.8 million tons at time of appraisal in 1977.
The most striking change has been in private capacity, with multinationals,
cooperatives and millers now holding 25.2 million tons compared to around 8.0
million in 1977, and producers expanding from 2.0 to 6.3 million tons on-farm.
Since a large part of production is exported shortly after harvest, there appears
to be no foreseeable lack of storage capacity. The issue now seems to be one of
storage distribution, which is not entirely appropriate to marketing conditions,
and  persistent  transportation  inadequacies.    Farmers  and  grain  buyers
(acogiadores) are unwilling to move grain any distance to storage.  Country
elevator capacity at point of purchase was in surplus in 1988 and 1989 to the
point where it could be purchased for 50% of replacement cost.
1.69       No ERR was calculated for the restructured project as a whole.
Separate analyses indicated ERR's of 22-40Z for wagon purchases, 20-50Z for rail
and port infrastructure improvements and 22% for JNG silo construction. The
Borrower has yet to send its draft report, and the data available are
insufficient at this stage for a meaningful ex lost economic evaluation, though
it is probable that the final outcome would be at the low end of the range for
wagon purchases and rail/port improvements, and well below the appraised figure
for JNG silos.
1.70       The project had some impact on its executing agencies. The BRA gained
valuable experience lending for grain storage facilities (although this was a
small part of its overall operations), and its relative efficiency and
profitability have prompted its lead role in carrying out the Agricultural Credit
Project It (Ln. 2970-AR) which includes, inter alia, funds for further private
grain storage and handling facilities. Further, the project appears to have
stimulated a genuine desire by new management at the FA for institutional
improvement. It also preserved Bank involvement with the FA after termination
of the Second Railway Project. The Bank's assistance has been sought and will
be considered for a new transport sector operation (FY93) now under preparation.
Lastly, the project experience demonstrated the urgent need to re-structure the
JNG as a pre-requisite for significant improvement in Argentine grain marketing,
or its potential role as lead agency in future Bank operations.
241 Ref. "Argentina: Agricultural Sector Review", June 30, 1989, Volume 2,
Annex 2, (Report No. 7733-AR).



- 20 -
Bank Performance
1.71       The Bank sought correctly in the mid-to-late 19709 to increase
Argentine grain storage capacity in the face of a serious storage deficit with
demonstrable economic  ill-effects.   However,  the Bank did not grasp the
implications of the developing privatization policy or its manifestations in
grain marketing and its own developmental bias caused it to be outpaced by
political and economic events which should have prompted re-assessment and
possible cancellation.   Internal considerations (resource transfer, lending
pipeline, balance of payments alleviation) complicated by divisional and
portfolio changes, staff turnover, and frequent perceptual differences between
upper management and projects staff, adversely affected the course of project
decision-making.
1.72       An  exceptional  and  comparatively  costly  effort went  into  the
preparation and supervision of this project from the earliest stages. Some 366.3
staff weeks were employed over the entire FY 1976-19882'1 period, of which 144.5
were for supervision of the reformulated project from PY 1983-1988. The multi-
sectoral nature of project components required their preparation and supervision
by several divisions?A'   Supervision tended to be along strict divisional
lines, with an effort at greater coordination of missions in the later years.
There is some evidence that greater effort could have been made during
supervision to facilitate a lifting of GOA constraints on FA tariff increases
although it is far from clear that the PA wanted to raise its tariffs.
1.73       The Bank  displayed  determination,  goodwill  and  flexibility  in
preparing and supervising the project, but it was not sufficiently willing to
handle forcefully the many instances of Borrower inefficiency and misleading
presentation of project status at key points.   The Bank's own operational
requirements for contract with the Borrower (e.g., procurement guidelines, dated
covenants, subsidiary agreements) at important junctures were seen almost as
obstacles to project momentum. The Bank's deadlines almost invariably lapsed or
were extended without serious challenge. This happened despite repeated attempts
by staff and managers to agree upon and adhere to meaningful targets.  Such
leniency, in practice, encouraged the Borrower's disregard for the Bank's
requirements.
Borrower Performance
1.74       The Borrower lacked the political commitment or institutional capacity
to implement the project, but fearing the embarrassment of cancellation and loss
of loar. funds, was willing to pay commitment fees for a prolonged period to keep
the project alive and secure downstream use of those funds.   The JNG in
particular lacked the resources or com-itment to execute its project
ll' Data for 1974 and 1975 not available.
26/ Agriculture (lead) and two transport divisions prior to reorganization;
agriculture operations assisted principally by the Technical Department
thereafter.



- 21 -
responsibilities adequately. The project became a means to retain leverage in
the wake of grain trade liberalization that had reduced its role. The PC and PEU
were completely ineffective management vehicles, merely replicating the
weaknesses and traditional rivalries of their member-agencies. Fault lay in
their structure and location not necessarily their inter-agency type, although
clearly this needs some re-assessment.
1.75       Covenant compliance was generally satisfactory, vith several important
exceptions. Audit submission was invariably late with delays of a year or more
and serious audit qualifications the norm.U'  While audit delays have been a
common phenomenon in Bank operations in Argentina, staff concluded that the
requirement to produce audit reports with auditor's opinion within four months
of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year was unreasonable and contributed to such
delays. In particular, the FA felt burdened by the requirement to audit its
entire operations, not just grain, by that same four-month period.   Staff
believed a more realistic date should be arrived at in future operations.
1.76       The BRA had great difficulty complying with the credit commitment
covenant, whose deadline had to be changed twice in recognition of that fact.
The PA did not achieve the 65S working ratio covenant and its compliance with the
covenant requiring submission to the Bank of annual data on costs and revenues
for its grain operations, was poor.
Relationship between Bank and Borrower
1.77       In general, the Bank expected too much of the Borrower and thus delays
and frustration were inevitable. During the protracted reformulation, it appears
the stalled project had little priority amid frequent changes of government, re-
examinations of policy and economic turbulence.
1.78       The Bank's relationships with implementing agencies were colored to
varying extents by difficulties with previous projects e.g., Agricultural Credit
I (BRA) and Railways I (FA),L' exacerbated by project complexity and consequent
pressures (on project agencies) to perform. Having retained a public sector
storage component in the reformulation the Bank had no alternative to the JNG
given its legal storage responsibilities, but might have tempered its assessment
of JNG capacity in view of the JNG's: (a) demonstrated inability to manage the
grain storage complex efficiently; (b) poor relations with other agencies crucial
to the project (e.g. FA, BRA and OSP); and (c) its transitional status under
privatization which brought out its instinct for self-preservation.   The
deterioration and frustration that subsequently set in, might have been avoided
27/  Prior to 1987 project audits were pezformed by the Contaduria General de la
Naci6n chiefly at GOA insistence, but performance was unsatisfactory. In
1987 it was replaced by the Sindicatura General de Empresas Pfiblicas
(SIGEP), the audit agency of the national executive, reporting through the
Ministry of Economy and trained in the Bank's requirements. Its performance
has been highly satisfactory.
281 Also, ongoing disputes under Railways II.



- 22 -
by firmer adherence to reasonable benchmarks which may well have entailed
cancellation.
Consultina Services
1.79       The technical demands of the project generally and the lack of in-
house grain storage expertise specifically, caused heavy reliance on consultants.
Performance was generally satisfactory. The Bahia Blanca pilot dredging study
by a joint Dutch-Argentine venture and subsequent studies for the Phase I and II
port development projects deserve special commendation.   Such dependence on
consultants for many, often basic aspects of project design and technical
supervision, does entail some risk, however, and this project contained a number
of examples, starting with the original design.
Project Documentation and Data
1.80       Lega. Agreements.  Project complexity demanded many agreements, the
preparation and legal review of which were inordinately lengthy, showing the
Argentine bureaucracy at its weakest and the pitfalls of such complexity. They
assumed in both their preparation and implementation a level of efficiency,
inter-agency cooperation, Borrower commitment and most importantly, respect for
contract, that did not eventuate. In the circumstances, the loan agreement and
various subsidiary, inter-agency agreements could not guarantee performance and
previous experience with selected loans to Argentina might have forewarned of
this.
1.81       Staff Appraisal Regort.  As is customary with reformulated projects,
no  formal  SAR was  prepared.    Individual  component  analyses  of varying
thoroughness were undertaken, a synthesis of which became a President's
Memorandum.    While  a  useful  outline  of  the  project,  it  lacked  the
comprehensiveness which would have made it a better working tool considering the
changes in the project, and contained several significant errors which may have
stemmed from hasty preparation.
1.82       Data Supply.  The project data base is incomplete despite repeated
requests to the project implementing agencies for results, even in preliminary
form. Further, little effort appears to have been made to maintain a rolling
tally of key project indicators. While progress reports were routinely furnished
to the Bank, these provided poor indications of project advance, often relying
on targeted, as opposed to actual, implementation achievements.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
1.83       General.   In all, there have been 23 Bank-financed grain storage
projects and certain generic problems have characterized their design and
implementation.'1 The Argentina Grain Storage Project suffered from a number
of them, as follows:
29/ Based on discussions with Bank managerial and project staff, and review of
available PCR's and PPAR's.



- 23 -
(a) a concentration on lnfrastructural investment without taking
adequate account of the relationship between the project and its
policy context (pricing, credit, transport, institutional
responsibility);
(b) discounting or overlooking the political strains and managerial
weaknesses of public entities;
(C) a reluctanc, to channel loan funds to the private sector,
underestimating its dynamism and commercial orientation;
(d) a lack of in-house Bank agro-industrial, marketing and technical
expertise, causing heavy reliance on consultants; and
(e) a tendency to focus on broader, strategic objectives while
overlooking more practical needs and solutions.
1.84       Project Desitn and Rationale.  This project vas a complex, cross-
sectoral operation. Complexity is not intrinsically a fault in project design,
but complex projects require strong management, coordination and a clear and
valid rationale.    Lack  of the  latter was  a particular  failing of  the
reformulation.
1.85       Both versions of the project are described in the official documents
as seeking fundamentally to increase the efficiency of Argentina's grain exports,
a paraphrase for the considerable diversity of listed objectives in each case.
However, such a core objective in practice was unlikely to be achieved through
expansion of the public storage complex (as originally formulated) which, as it
turns out, lacked Government commitment due to the ideological debate over
storage privatization.
1.86       The reformulated project introduced new objectives (strengthening the
financial position of NA; advancing the development of the northern region) which
may have been desirable in themselves but were connected only marginally to the
stated core objective and would appear to have been included to "sell" a
reformulation which was, in key respects, weakly justified and substantially
different from the original project.
1.87       The evident lack of clarity or validity in the rationale for the
reformulation was exemplified in the Bank's willingness first to undertake such
a reformulation and then to persist with the JNG silo component long after it was
evident that further public silo capacity was contrary to stated GOA policy
(despite the internal debate) and the trend of events in the field.-W Indeed,
the project's continued preoccupation with storage construction illustrates
°1 Even in 1983 when the Bank appraisal mission assessed the reasonableness of
a JNG public construction program in the North, it would seem to have been
wiser for the Bank to confirm its belief in privatization by simply standing
back and letting private initiatives take their course. However, given the
JNG's influence, role and interests, this was probably not an option.



- 24 -
inadequate analysis of the fundamental problems of grain marketing in Argentina
which, by the time of the reformulation, were largely unrelated to the
availability of physical storage capacity, lying instead in the structure of
financial markets, the regulatory structure of grain markets themselves, and
grain transport and handling.
1.88       CaJncellation.  As the project developed over the year. it became
hostage to shifting political commitment and chronic institutional weakness.
Though cancellation was debated frequently, it was always rejected following
appeals for flexibility and understanding. Nevertheless, the project should have
been cancelled, either during the stagnation of 1981-82, or during 1985 when
there was still no activity under the JNG silo or BRA credit components (i.e.,
the "storage" components), some two years after Board approval of the amended
loan. In an important sense, the Bank lost control of this project by shifting
its focus from a straightforward developmental effort to other considerations
which, depending on the period, included balance of payments alleviation, country
relations, pipeline-building and, underlying all, a persistent wish to make the
project work, despite everything. Cancellation on a "without prejudice" basis,
to analyze and re-evaluate the changing grain marketing complex with a view to
designing a more rational and timely project, would have been both prudent and
explainable.
1.89       Other Issues.  There are a numbes of other issues of importance, as
follows:
(a) Mid-stream project restructuring, while often necessary and
beneficial, was in this case too protracted and radical.!a It
was ultimately costly and appears to have been driven
increasingly, as time passed, by agendas not specific to the
project itself.
(b) Supervision of the project suffered from discontinuity of staff
and from fragmentation of divisional effort. The latter problem
would probably be diminished under the new Bank structure. Such
constraints, with poor communication both in Argentina and in the
Bank, caused the component parts to become mini-projects within
a general framework.
(c) Procurement was mishandled in this project and the Bank's
response was inadequate. There were pressures at the time to be
lenient in the interest of borrower relations and avoiding
cancellation. The damaging effects which protectionist measures
like "Compre Argentino" can have on the implementation of an
internationally-financed development project (quite apart from
their negative domestic effects) underscores the need to write
"/ It could be argued that it was not radical enough. For example, the JNG
component might have been dropped and the BNA credit line include a covenant
requiring that part of the credit be invested in those same northern areas
targeted for JNG activity.



- 25 -
specific exemptions to Argentine procurement regulations into the
legal documents of future loans.
(d) As proved to be the case in this project, project coordinating
units cannot be expected to countervail pre-existing bureaucratic
antagonisms.    Such units may  lack  influence,  are usually
temporary, and if situated within an agency may tend to foster
that agency's interests, which may not necessarily mesh with
overall project objectives.



- 27 -
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
&RG-ENTIA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(Loan 1521-AR)
PART IIt  PROJECT REVIW KRMQBROREOW' S PERECIVRE
No Part II provided by the Borrower.



- 29 -
PROJECT COLE3TION R3PORT
G31TINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
- Loan 1521-AR)
PART IILi STATI8TTCAL INFORATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
LOSS                                              Year of
Ml1ha                     pur                    AeMrewa          Stotom                   C-=t
1/  Balearce            To encourage adoption of new       1907       Closed             Implemented over 1968-80
Livestock           technology In posture                         July 81,1960.    period.  Experienced
Dovelopoent         production/managemnt and                                        adverse economic pollcies
Projet              animal health practices.                                        and conditions
(Ln. 60-AR)                                                                         non-conducive to sector
Investment especially In
ITvestock development.
2/  Agricultural        Medium and long-term credit        1970       Cancelled In      Core lending program never
Credit I            for on-form Investments, to                   1980, before      became operational due to
Project             expand production for export                  disbursements    high Inflation, over-valued
(Ln. 1564-AR)      and amelorte BOP                               began.            local currency and large
difficulties.                                                   Inflows of competing low
cost foreign capital.
8/  Agricultural        Two-trenche financing to           1986       Close, fully    Unsuccessful.  Did not meet
Sector Loan         support sectoral adjustments                  disbursed.        second trnche,
(Ln.2675-AR)       footerTng Increased                                              conditicnality, but Sank
Amount/US8850.0    agrlcultural productivIty                                        recommnded disbursement.
mIITlon,            and exports.
4/  Agricultural        eoneral line of credit to          1066       Ongoing           Procoeding successfully.
Credit t            finance agricultural                                            Twenty-two Banks have
Project             Investments and                                                 signed up to participate.
(Ln. 2970-AR)      complementary working                                            USS100 million of subloans
Amount/US1106.5    capital.                                                         already comitted.
million.
5/  Grain Marketing    To alIevIate koy constraInts    Planned        Suspended         Macro-economic *Ituti0oh Iin
Project.            In the morkoting chain not        FY98.       Indef initely.    Argentina not conducive tc
addressed under Ln.1621,                                        proceeding with appraisal.
e.g., restructuring JNG and
storage Incentives.



- 30 -
Page 2 of 8
Loan                                             Yoer of
tlOl                     Purpose                Amerovol         St___ _ts
Other ank Groan Prolect Affeetlng Asricultural OM .lom mot
6/  Sahl* Blanco I     Principally r.habilitation        198t        OngoIno          Serious delays due
Port Project       of portlde storage and                                         macroeconomic uroerta Intis
(Ln.280-AR).       handlIng faclilties at Babla                                   and lack of counterport
Blanco No. 2 terminal.                                        funds for prlncipal
component (silo).
7/  Bahbl Blanc I1    Further expanslon of Bahl       Not          Engineerlng      Now governmnt Is roviewing
Port Projet.      Blone& port facilities,          known       and bidding       port policy, but Intends
documonts        port silo prlvatization.
complted.       Further exponsion of Bahia
Project on       Blanca unclear.
hold.
S/  Public Sector      To strengthen COA'o genoral       198        Ongoing          Procoeding satisfactorily.
Managemnt          manaogemnt of the economy,                                     Several components
Technicoal         Including TA for SAGyP                                         completed.
Assistance Loan    (Secretariat of
(Ln.2171-AR).      Agriculture).
Amount/USS18.6
milIlion.
9/  Small A Medium     To finance working capital        1987        Ongoing          Project being affected by
Scale Industry     and investmnts In                                              financial crisis In
Credit Projoct    agro-induetrieo, etc.                                           Argentina.  Bank taking
(LN.2798-AR).      (through SANADE).                                              cautious approach pending
Amount/US$126.0                                                                   dtorminatlon of
million,                                                                          sub-project viability and
financial situation of
Intermediate Banks.
10/ Banco Rio de Is   Agri-business credit line,         1987       Ongoing           No problems (laost SPN
Plata (BRLP)       implemented by 8RLP,                                           January 1989).  As of
Credit Line for    covering working capital and                                   December 1988, 87X of
Agro-Business      investments for                                                credit line disbursed to
(Inves.#998-AR)    modernization and expansion                                    financially sound,
Amount/USS80.0     port groin handling                                            well-entablished
million.           ?acilltioe, hide processing                                    sub-borrowers.  Majority of
and cold storage, etc.                                        aub-projects export
oriented.



- 31 -
Page a of 9
Loan                                              Year of
nltl-                     PurDOe                 Aproyal         Status                   Coe_ nts
1l/ Second Railways    Rehabilitation of rail             1979        Closod           Project objectives only
Project             notwork, upgrading of                        US829.65          partly achiev-d, but much
(Ln.1677-AR).      rolling stock and locomotive                  million           accompilshed In araas of
Amount/USS9S60     fleet for agro-transport                       cancelled,       studies, closure uneconomic
million.            Improvements.                                                   lines, maintenance and
training, and !CB
discipline.
12/ Banking Soector     Increase deposit                 1989        Lapsed            Macro-economic situation
Adjustment Loan    mobilization, Improve crodit                                    had changed so much, loan
(Ln.2928-AR).      allocatlon and cost of                                          objectives had to be
Amount US8400.0    credit and TA for Bank                                          complot ly re-sessod.
million,           supervision.



- 32 -
oNAIN STORAGE PROJECT CLn. 1S21-AR=
Table 2t  Prlgt Tlmtable
Date                     Date                           Date
item                    Plannd                    Rev Isd                        Actual
IdentitIcation                N/A                       N/A                      September, 1974
Prsparatlon                (a) 4th Quarter, 1975 /      N/A                      December, 1976
Decembr, 1978
March, 1977 V/
(b) N/A  /                   N/A                            N/A
Appraisal                  (a) 4th Quarter, 1976        N/A                      April/May, 1977
(b) March, 1988              N/A                      February 27, 1988
Loan Negotiations          (a) January 12, 1978         N/A                      January 12, 1978
(b) N/A                      N/A
Board Approval             (a) 2nd Quarter, 1976        N/A                      February 21, 1978
(b) N/A                      N/A                      October 26, 1988
Loan Signature             (a) N/A                      N/A                      June 29, 1978
(b) N/A                      N/A                      January 25, 1984
Loan Effectivenes          (a) June 80, 1978            N/A                      November 28, 1978
(b) January 2, 1984        April 2, 1984              August 6, 1984
May 81, 1984
August 10, 1964 3/



- 33 -
Page 2 ot 2
0at                      Date                            aete
lb~                     Plonned                   Releed                         Actual
Loan Closing               (a) June sO, 1988            N/A                            N/A
(b) Deceber 81, 1986       June 86, 1988              June W, 1986
Loan Completion            (a) Decebar 31, 1983         N/A                             N/A
(b) December 31, 19086     June 80, 1988              June 30, 108  /
/ (a) Refers to original project, (b) to roformulation.
3/ Preparation delayed due to difficultlie  designing and testing optimal storage model.
/ Effectiveness delayed due to need for review and signature of large number of subsidiary loan
agreements resulting from project complexity, involvment of multiple agencies, and major
proble  determining terms and conditlons of 8NA credit line.
4 Loan account held open.



- 34 -
ARGENTIN
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT (Ln.1621-AR)
Table 8: Loan DisbAurinntts
At Cuoulative Estisated and Actual Disbursements Cus Million)
FY 79  FY W  FY 81  FY 82  3   FFY 94  fY         Y 8   fY 87  0f8       89
(a) Appraisal Estimate, /           3.7  22.7  63.4  96.1 106.0  106.0
Original Project
Actual                          0.2    0.9    2.3   3.4    3.4    3.4
Actual as Percent of            6.0    4.0    4.0   4.0    3.0    3.0
Estimate (X)
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
(b) Appraisal Estimate, y                                              8.4   60.2  74.7  87.0
Revised Project
Actual                                                             8.4  16.3  27.0  54.2  84.6  72.4
Actual as Percent of                                             100.0  32.0  88.0  62.0  74.0  83.0
Estimate (%)
Closing Date: December 81, 1987
Date of Final Disbursement: July 16, 1988 g
Total Amount of Loan cancelled since FY79: US832.6 Million
/ Prosented in SAR on annual basis only.
/ Reflects modified project and Loan amount as approved by Board in October, 1983.
/ Assumed disbursement of USS 13,0 million to open Special Account In second quarter of FY 86, and anticipated
disbursements for new railcars.
J  Loan account hold open until June 30, 1988 end US3 14.8 million cancelled.



ARmEIA
AIN STURA( PROJECT (L.lS- AR
TAIL! 8: Lowm DIebMs~smt
lB Tim Lim of SDimgrvmmt
119_
Hi I ok
I"    8      b         "        81       -"         "        8R                            n              IODIAL
so                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REVLSU
To                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACTUAL
so
so
4.
U
16
FY 78        78        so       81         2        sa                 es 3      so        el       8         89



- 36 -
ARGENIMNA
MIAIN STORAGE PROACT  (L1. 1521-ARI
Table 4: troJect WIe_entation
Approleal                Revised
Proj. et  em _                            EI"nt  J                  Est/ wimte                cwA
Silos and Grain Handling
JNC Silos                                    20                      22                        70X
Improvements to Existing Siloes                                                                --
Pilot Train Loading Points                   --                       2                        ---
Unloading Platforms I/                       ---                      9                         9
Computer Equipment (USUM)                     0.5                     0.5                      ---
Ral Improvements
Boxcar Alteratlons                        2,000                                               1001
Ratlcar Purchase                             ---                    845                       1001
Rosario Port Improvements                    ---                      ---                     100%
Off-loading Ramps !/                                    8 _                                   100X
Operating Ratio/FA                           ---                     76                       18S
Sllo Access Lines /                          -
Rail InterlIne Connections                    8                                               N/A
Bahis Blanca Port
Pilot Dredging Studies                                                --                      100
Access Channel Studies                                                ---                     100%
Port Studies/Design ('Estudlo Chico")                                 -                       100%
BNA Credit Line
Private Storage                                                      22.5                      18.1
Sub-projects (USIM) !/
I/ Original Project.
V/ Modified Project.
!I Did not proceed. Emphasis on now structures.
4/ Did not proceed.
5/ Pilot test under original project, added to under reformuletion.
S/  JNG sought to purchase computers under LCB despite terms of Loan Agrement, and Inadquate time
remained to revert to and complete ICD procedures.
J Average of 1 Km. of rail spurs to sech of the 20 silos under the original project. Silo complex
not built an originally envisaged.
8/ Loan allocation USS 22.5 million fully committed by early 1987, but several sub-borrowers withdrew,
and some cost savings achleved on sub-projects.



- 37 -
aRAIN S1URAGE PROWECT (Ln. 1521-AR)
Table St Prolect Coat. And Financing
As Prolect Cos*t -MS MIIlon) aJ
Original Projoct           Reformulated Project /              Actual
Foreign                      Foreign                     Foreign
Local Exchange              Local  Exchange              Local Exchange
Cot   Coat.  Total          Coat.   Cat*        Total   Costa   Costa    Total
JNG Silos and Grain HandlIng  107.4   64.8  172.2          19.7   13. 6       33.2
FA Railway Improvements         9.6     6.1   14.7         15.4   34.6        49.9
Technical Assistance to JNG     0.7    0.4      1.1
30hr' Blanca Studles/Doeign    0.9      2.4     8.3         3.0     6.5        9.6
BNA Credit Lino -e                                         42. S1/ 22.5       65.0              18.1
Total Basolln  Cost          118.6    72.7     191.8      80.6   77.0       157.6
CONTINGENCIES:
Physical                       12.6    7.0       19.8       2.0     3.4        6.4
Price                          43.8   25.3       89.1       6.4    6.6        12.0
Sub-Total                      66.83    32.3     88.7       7.4   10.0        17.4       -                  -
TOTAL PROJECT COST            175.8  1456.      286.8       8.S   879 7  /   1765.       N/A   72.4 M/ I/A
y   The project record contains no final statwment of foreign exchange costs (or local costs), either by loan
category or component.
V    Costs Include US$ 8.4 million alroedy disbursed under original project.
8/   Included US$ 3.1 million of rail improvements, for which JNC was responsible.
4/   Included benoficiaries' minimum contribution of 80% of their investment plans, i.e., 30X of estimated total
cost of USS 65.0 million.
5/ US$ 18.0 million of original loan cancelled.
tf US$ 14.67 million cancelled.



38 4-
MIN STMWA  MMOEC  IL... 152-ARt
Table Go Pwol.et Cot ond finnencin
as Procte Financona
Original                    Revilew                  Estimated
Project        U           Project          3       Actual I/         1
UNSl Milton)                gYSS Million)            (USS Million)
EURO                     195.0         08.0         07.0 Z/         60.0       72.4           N/A
GOA                      176.0         87.0         66.0            50.        N/A            N/A
B.n.Icierie.               _            _           20.0 3/                    N/A
IOTAL               26.9          £9t.0       179C0           10.9        N/A           19.0
/ No data yet vaollablo on actual project financing by Borrower.
V   U5S 1.90 mlliton cancelled from original projoet.
V/ 8neflelorloe  minimum contribution of 8O of total estimated cost of the private storage
component (UStSS.0 millIon).
G GOA and beneficiaries.



- 39 -
0IWN STYAOE PROJECT &ft. 1521-AR)
Table St Proict Seneflt.
At DIM!O Beefits
Conts  There Is an acute lack of date to aupport an asse"snt of project benefIts at
this *stag.



- 40 -
ORAIN SMlRAOE PROJECT OA. 121-ARf
Table :t Prola  SmuePit_
8: Financial ZceaT
Coment   Insufflel-nt data Is ovallablo to estimate actual financial Impact.
Flnaneial Rat. of Rturn.           Awraisal Estimate                Estimted Actual
FA Grain Tariff Increases                     12S                          N/A
JNO Sl os j/                               16-20X                          N/A
j/ Not mntioned In President's Report, only In May 31, 1988 transmittal emorandum to senior
managment.



- 41 -
GRABN S1URAOM PROJECT OA. 1521)
Table St Prvlect Beneitts
Comment:  Economic analysis (of which only rail component sighted) irdleated difftrent rates of
return for oach component excluding the BNA credit lIne, and no overall project ERR
was calculated. Insufficient information io available to re-estimate ERR.
Economie Rate  t Return              Appralsal Estimte           Estimted Actual
A. JNO Silos                                  22X                       N/A
B. FA Wagon Purchass                       22-40X                       N/A
C. Rail and Port                           20-650                       N/A
Infrastructure
Improvemonts



- 42 -
GRAIN    RAGE PROJECT  La.  M-6 AR
Table 6: Prolect Beneftt
0D Studies
Purpoe as
Defined at                                            Iopact Of
Studies                   Appraisal                Status                         Study
1.  Bahia  ltance Pilot    Determine feaslbility         Compl-to              Led to actual channel
Dredging Study         of deepening Bahi*                                  dredging (by
Blance access                                      Dutch/Russian
channel.                                           consortium).
2.  Bahis Blanca Access    Economic/technical            Complote              Led to final design and
Channel Studies        ro-nsuesament to                                    englneering studies.
(Estudlo Chico).       confirm feasibility
of combined port and
channol improvements
and to ascertain
selection of most
economical design
alternative.
3.  Final Design and       For potentiol port            Complete              Led to BShia Blanca
Engineering            on-shore Investment                                 Port Oevelopment
Studies.                In berths and grain                                Project, (Ln.2805-AR),
handling facilities.                               ongoing.
4.  FA Costing and          Basis for a tariff           Completo              Tariffs were incroased
Marketing Studios      adjustment program                                  but not cost-based, and
designed to meet the                               ratio thus not met.
66 working ratio
target.



- 43 -
ADR STOAG PROACT fu   51A
Table 7t  Statud of C nant
Covenont                 Subecwt                   Q.gidjjg
A. §3^ - CV) A&Mnded Loan Asremmnt
Section 2.91(a)    DNA to comilt 20X of loan       December $1, 1934      BNA unablo to comply
amount allocated for                                  until lote lOW.
storage sub-loans, or Sank                            (Deadlin ae,xtended
would cancel component.                               twico by Sank, to
Deceombr 31 10S and
December 31. 1936).
SectIon 2.11        0orrower to open and                  N/A             CompiIed.
maintain Special Account in
Contral Dank wlth initlol
deposit of USS13.9 mIliIon.
Section 2.11(c)     Enter Subsldiary Agreement    Prior to                CompiIed.
with JN0.                      effectiveness.
Sectlon 2.12(d)     Enter Subsidiary Agreement    Prlor to                CoopiIed.
wIth FA.                       effectivenuse.
Section 2.12(e)     Enter Subsidiar  Agreement    As condition of         Compiled with serious
with DNA.                      dibursemont           delays contributing to
against credit sub-    NA'so Inability to
loeans                comply with Loan
Covonant requirlng 295
comitment by December
31, 1934.
Section 3.a4(a)     Estblish Project               Prior to               ComplIed.
Comittee.                      effectiveness.
Section 8.04(b)     Establish Project Executing   Prior to                Complied.
Unit.                          effectivoness.



- 44                                    Page 2 of J
Covenent                 Subject                    00 n I
8.  .I  - ( iAmwdsdLoan Aareente
Section 2.1(c)     Enter Subsidiary Agreement      Prlor to                Compl Id.
with GOA.                       effectiveness.
__ - (ii) Amended Prolect Agreement
Section 2.03        Ente. Subadiary Agreement       Prior to                Compiled.
with FA.                       effectiveness.
Section 2.06        Enter Subsidiary Agreement      Prior to                Complied.
with BNA for technical          effectivenne.
assistance In evaluation of
inveatment projects.
Section 2.7         Enter Subsidlary Agreement      Prior to                Compie d.
with SNA for assistance on      effectiveness.
silo design and
construction supervision.
C. FA - (tl Amended Loan Agreement
Section 2.12(d)     Enter Subsliiary Agreemnt       Prior to                Complied.
with GOA (eleven years, 7X     effectiveness.
Intereet rate and
commitment fee of 0.765 on
undisbursed amount).
FA - (1i) Project Agreement
Section 4.01(a)     Maintain adequate                      N/A              Complied.
accounting records.
Section             Maintain separate accounts             N/A              Complied.
4.01(b)(i)          (SOE's).
Section 4.02(n)     Audit of FA accounts and        April 30, annually.    Complied with, but
financial statements by                                major delays and audit
independent auditors                                   qualifications.
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.02(b)     Audit of Project Accounts       April 30, annually.    Complied, with delays.
Including Special Account
and SOE's.



45 -Pgo  of 3
Covenont                 Subect                     DeadlIne               Status
FA - tli) Project Aroent
Soction 4.02(d)     Submialsion to tho Bank of      Every 12 months,        FY86 never submitted.
Information on cost* end       from                    Othor submissions
revenues for FA grain          March 81, 1986.         grossly late und
operations                                             Information incompleet.
Section 4.08t()     Costing and Marketing           April 2, 1984.          Studies submitted
Studies.                                               August 29, 1984.
Section 4.08(b)     Prepare tariff adjustment       July 31, 1984.          Compliod.
schedule to met 65 working                             (Part of 4.03(o)
ratio target.                                          atudles)
Section 4.04        Maintain working ratio of                               Not achieved.  Ratio
06 for FA grain operations                             for 1987 was 185 and
In FY60 and thereafter.                                for first quarter of
1988, 112X.
O. BHA - it) Amendkd Loan Apreement
Section 2.12(e)     Enter Subsidiary Agre_mnt       As condition of         Compiled, with serious
with GOA.                      disbursement            delays.
against credilt
sub-loans.
_NA - t(1) ProJect Agreement
Section 2.02(a)     Enter Subsidiary Agreement             N/A              Compiled.
with JNC and FA.
Section 2.06(a)     Submit regular SOE'c.                  N/A              Compiled.
Section 2.06(b)     BNA to provide Bank with        Six months              Not complied with.
report on execution and        following lest
Initial operation of           withdrawal from
sub-projects, costs and        Loan Account.
benefits derived,
performance of BNA and Bank
and project
accomplishments.
Section 8.01        DNA to maintain adequato               N/A              Complied.
records and Project
Accounts.
Section B.02        BNA to furnish audited          April 30, yearly.       Complied, but very
Project Accounts.                                      tardy.



- 46 
AR^N t STURAUN PRJT (La. 1t12-MW)
Table Os  One of B*Lo ft g e re
As        ISOMJ
S t           ek
Staft+wo,,o
Sgs of Prajes Cypl.  FM76         Pt??   FY73 F70 FM   F           U  FM8 f4  FYM5 FY36 FY37 FY33
1. To Appralool I/       609      118.4
2. Apprails i8.4
S. Nbotlatlone                            9.4
4. Supervision and Project
Adeintatintlon                        10.1  12.4  18.7  7.7  15.3 8u6.   28.7  16.6  26.0  80.6  18.2
Totals                     6.9   115.4  5.9  18.4  n.?   7.7  15.8  $6.6  28.7  15.6  25.6 $8.5  18.2
Tota Staff,skIe  F t1U s  MA
Sg&2aj: Much supervilion time was spent froe 198t on attempting to reformulate the stallod project. This
Involved soveral periods of preparation and appraisal activity which did not, until late 1988,
translate Into an amended loan. The figures indlcato a higk staff Input for supervisoln well
abovo the operational norm of 12 Staff weeks per project per yar.
,/  Project initiated In 1974, but no data availablo on staff Inputc until FY76.



- A 9 -
O*ARN STVACE PROJCT (Ln. Lg21-AR)
Table St U"  .  Sank Roeoureu
Bt Miselone
Days
Oat.         Kumbar       In    Specialization   Performance   Type  ot
(no./yr.)      Per son    Field  Rep_eeted V/        Rating      Problems
Identitieetion           69/74            1         7            b             N/A           N/A
Preparation               10/75           1         7            c             N/A           N/A
Preparation              05/76            1         7            c             N/A           N/A
Preparation              09/76            2        20            b             N/A           N/A
Preparation               11/76           1        24            e             N/A           N/A
Preparation              08/77            4         7           b,c            N/A           N/A
Appraleail                4/77            a         S         bc,¢-            N/A           N/A
Pr_-Negotlation           09/77           2        N/A           a             N/A           N/A
Supervision  1           04/79            3        12           b,f             1            N/A
Supervision  2            10/79           a         9           c,t             3             0
Supervision  3 gJ        04/80            1         7            b              3             0
Supervision  4            10/80           2        12           a,b             3             a
Supervision  6           s6/81            1         7            a              3            PfM
Supervision  6           12/81            4        10          a,b.f            3             P
Supervision  7           03/82            1         4            a              a            PFA
Supervision  8           08/82            2        16            b              2             P
Supervision  9            11/82           1         7            b              3            PMF
Supervision 10           01/83            3        N/A           b              2            PMF
Supervision 11           03/83            8        11          a,b,c            3            PMF



-48- -                                            o2*
Peys
Coto         Number      I.    specialization   Prtormance   Types of
(no./yr.)      Persons    Flld    Repreented        Rating       Problems
Supervision 12            04/8J           1          8           *               2           MF
Suprvision 18             09/83           8         14         a,b,d             a           PUF
Supervision 14            09/89           4         7           *,-            N/A            F
Supervision 16            03/94           4         12         v,b,o            N/A           U
Supervision 16            67/84           2         7           b,c               2            F
Supervision 17            08/86           2        21            b               2             FM
Supervision 18           07/86            1        N/A           f               2             FM
Supervision 19            09/85           2         14           b               2             FM
Supervision 20            61/86           2         O            b               2             FM
Supervision 21           04/80            1         0            *               2             MO
Supervision 22           04/88            2        14           s,e               8            FM
Supervision 28            10/86           I        11            a               S             UF
Supervision 24            12/88           1        16           a,f              8              PF
Supervislon 25            11/67           4        20         *,c,-,t             2            UF
Supervision 26            U4/88           1         2            *               8             MF
Key to Specalilzation:        a a Financial Analyst    b a Economist
c a Agronomist           d a Legal Specialist
* a Engineer             f = Consultant Specialist
Key to Performances           1 a Problem Free or Minor Problems
2 a Moderate Problems
8 a Major Probloem
Key to Type of Probleus:      F a Financial            U a Managerial
T * Technical            P a Political
0 a Other
/ Supervision missions 3-16 were heavily Involved In preparing a modified proJect and
bringing It to effectiveness.
V/ Evidence suggests engineers participated In supervlison of the rail component on
substantially more occasions than tho record shows. Specializations are not identified In
a I I cass.



- 49 -
GRAIIN STORAGE PROJECT tLn. 1521-A)
Table l: Useo -f     Resoe
C: Casts
Data not avaflable to cotplete this tabte.



L              Toooooon                                        ~~~~~~~~~ARGENTINA
>~~ 37~~7                                              GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
/   %~~~~~~U 
~~   <-K  /           Corpo Gollo ~~~~~~~~~~~~                       LB.            0  oh 
'-4onon                                           Soonpos          Aoirno            MoS B-
¼       280              - -             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . 
"t 77-11 11L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
T.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sto                                                                                 tosoo.sT-
18 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...J/
Taoaon            Cosoros                                  1055000                 7~~~~~~ I-S..oiI
R~~~~~~~~~~-
0. F. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0
pi-                       S. R...~~~~-5r rosbl                                           /              r     ~      Mot
T~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  G   M~~~~~~~~~~~~OAIGFpro
D.I.12c  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oro                                                        I
-% Tift    --- .or.o  AL.OooodoP.
~~~~~~~~~~~2' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ gd
to Co,oei Oiooo'  A               V.1Moos                                                                  Coloobon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Giedo                                                                                             on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
ingorooro                             mOT O
34',                                       L.Lb-[         adO.*                                                                    Arocor
r,ooh    Ode ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     DEN
Goal. Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Arizna              .        :0~:           A50hoio            LIl               tooddo                                 700 r-o
36'     -                                   mlrd
A     Pmoposod Project Silo Sites
-i-l-Main Railroads tor Gram  Transport Dob
---i Railroads                                                                                                c0              66         oooi
Mc1as Grain Ports
ta-Riners
-  Proiociol Bo.ndanies               j       BrogSoor
- lo,te-noional Boondories
38' 
C       52      lOS      150       0                                                                                      Dolro       iOO
KILOMVETESS
6,6                            6 4'                                                                     07-



