Document of
The World Bank   FILE  COUPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1749b-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
January 26, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(at the time of appraisal and used in this report)
US$1          = $a 360
US$1 MilliLon = $a 360 Million
$a 1 Million = US$2,778
WEIGHTS AND MEASURFS
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DIGID   -  I)ireccion General de Investigacion y Desarrollo
DNCEG   -  Direccion Nacional de Construccion de Elevadores de Granos
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FA      -  Ferrocarriles Argentinos
JNG     -  The Grain Board
SEIM    -  Secretariat of Maritime Affairs
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Agriculture in the Economy ........................             1
B.   Agricultural Policy  ........................ .2....
II.   THE GRAIN SUBSECTOR
A.   Supply and Utilization   ............................           3
B.   Marketing    ........ ......        *oo................................  5
III.   THE PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
A.   Brief Description  ...................      ............    11
B.   Detailed Features  .. ............ ..................... .....    12
C.   Cost Estimates ....... ...........................    15
D.   Financing .................... ................. ....    17
Eo   Procurement ..... .. .. ..  .......................... ........  18
F.   Disbursemtent o o  .................. ........... .... -   ..........    19
IV.   DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
A.   Effective Export Demand ...........................    20
B.   Demand for Project Storage Facilities            .............    21
V.   TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A.   Grain Storage and Controls ....o              ........         22
B.   Grain Transportation .....       ........... .......    23
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Government ....             ........ .. . .. .... . ..... ... ..... ... .    24
B.   Grain Board Organization and Operation .    ...........    24
C.   Project Management .. ..........       .....................   26
Do   Construction Schedule ........ . . . . . . . . .  ..... . . .....0. ..    28
E.   Accounts, Auditing and Reporting .................     ...    28
This report was appraised in April/May 1977 by a mission consisting of
Messrs. W.R. Ringlien, C.W. Wolffelt, P.N. Taborga (Bank), and J. Bigosinski,
P. Christensen, C. Fowler, A. Lewis, and D. Treleaven (Consultants).
This document has rartficwd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their orcil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......     ...............................   29
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Benefits       ..........................................  31
B.   Costs  .............................................   32
C.   Project  Risks   .....................................  33
D.   Impact of Silos on Environment       ....................   34
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ON LOAN CONDITIONS .......   34
ANNEXES
1.   Terms of Reference for Engineering and General Consultants  36
2.   Terms of Reference for an Inspection and Supervision System
at Level of Primary Elevators                            42
3.   Terms of Reference for Improved Grain Inventory Control System  50
4.   Terms of Reference for Training of Silo Managers and
Supporting Staff for Project Silos                       60
5.   Bahia Blanca Pilot Dredging                                  63
6.   Construction and Implementation Schedule                    66
7.   Network Flow Model Determining Storage Requirements         67
8.   Grain Board                                                 83
9.   Terms and Conditions for Leasing Project Silos              86
10.    Financial Rate of Return                                   89
11.   Economic Rate of Return Calculations                        95
12.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  110
MAP      Location of Project Silos and Major Grain Ports, IBRD No. 13012R



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
General
1.01      The agricultural sector during 1965-76 has accounted consistently
for about 14% of GDP. Excluding the comparatively small contribution of
forestry and fisheries, the total sectoral output is fairly equally divided
between crops and livestock. There are, however, significant regional
differences as the pampas region accounts for about 62% of all livestock
output but only 38% of all crops. Agricultural exports made up 79% of total
exports in the 1970-76 period, declining in relative importance from 83% in
1970 to 74% in 1976. Between 1970 and 1976, grains grew from 29% to 31% of
total exports, meats declined from 21% to 14% and oilseeds products remained
constant at 10% of total exports.
Employment
1.02      Argentina has a population of about 25 million.  The agricultural
sector directly employed about 20% of the labor force in 1950-54, and 17%
in 1970-74. Absolute numbers have remained stable, implying migration from
the farms to the cities.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
1.03      According to the 1969 census, 73% of all grain and livestock farms
in Argentina were owner operated and accounted for almost 90% of all land in
farms. To a large degree, they are family farms, meeting their own labor
requirements. In the pampas region, which produces most of the grain, 56.3%
of the farms were less than 100 ha in size, averaging about 38 ha; 33.2% were
between 100 and 500 ha, averaging 225 ha; 5.5% were between 500 and 1,000 ha,
averaging 700 ha; and the remaining 5% were large farms of over 1,000 ha.
Production
1.04      Agricultural production in Argentina grew at a rate of 1.8% per
annum during 1953-77. The comparable figure for crops was 2.6% and for
livestock 1.4%. Growth during the second half of the period was almost
double that of the first half mainly as a result of an improvement in the
terms of trade for agriculture, and a more widespread use of commercial
inputs, especially improved seeds and intensified mechanization. Growth of
crop output accounted for the bulk of the improved performance while livestock
production expanded at a somewhat slower pace in the 1963-77 period than in
the earlier period and in comparison with the rate of growth for crops.



- 2 -
B. Agricultural Policy
1.05      The growth strategy of the Government aims at strengthening the
country's external payments position through an accelerated development of
sectors in which Argentina enjoys a comparative advantage. In line with this,
the economic environment of agriculture is being improved through adjustments
in taxation, credit, tariff, marketing, and exchange rate policies. The
objectives are to bring farm product and input prices in line with interna-
tional levels, and to establish a tax and credit system which will stimulate
improved resource use and output expansion. Over the intermediate term, it is
expected that land use will be intensified in the humid pampas (which now
accounts for most of agricultural exports) and that livestock and crop produc-
tion in the other areas will be expanded through land and water development.
The potential is impressive, not only in crops and livestock, but also in
forestry and fisheries.
1.06      The Government's agricultural policy, announced in April 1976, is
being vigorously implemented. Differential exchange rates for many agricul-
tural exports have been reduced or eliminated. The export retention tax for
wheat was reduced from 40% to 10% in August 1976 and was eliminated in November.
In December 1976, the tax rates on coarse grains were cut from 40% to 10% and
will be eliminated in May 1978. By the end of the year, most domestic price
controls had been removed, the state monopoly on grain trading had been
lifted, the system of cattle slaughter quotas had been abolished, and the
National Meat Board was no longer engaged in direct selling abroad.
1.07      From April 1976 to September 1977 in constant prices of April 1976,
prices of agricultural products increased by 21%, crop prices by 22% and live-
stock prices by 20%. In the case of soybeans, prices have risen as a result of
liberalization of the restrictions on the export of unprocessed soybeans. In
1976, the Government permitted export of 150,000 m tons of soybeans and for
1977 it has established an export quota of 600,000 m tons. All restrictions
on direct exports of soybeans will be eliminated as of March 1, 1978.
1.08      To help offset the revenue effects of the reduction in export taxes,
a temporary (until December 31, 1979) sales tax of 4% on agricultural products
at point of first sale was introduced on September 1, 1976. Fifty percent of
the sales tax payment is deductible from income subject to income tax. The
provinces are in the process of revaluing land to 70% of market value, and
establishing an annual tax rate equal to 1% of that valuation. The effect of
the land tax should provide landowners with greater incentives to use land
more intensively and increase revenues to provincial Governments.
1.09      Substantial progress has been made in shifting from negative
interest rates and administrative rationing of funds to positive rates for
agricultural credit. For the crop year beginning in July 1976, the Banco
de la Nacion Argentina, the main source of agricultural credit, made
production loans available at an annual rate of about 94% (including 17%
emergency tax). Although still negative, this rate was in real terms about
double that of the previous two years. The BNA credit for silos (supported by



the Inter-American Development Bank) was made available in early 1977 and
now bears a rate of 6%, with outstanding principal being adjusted in line with
the general wholesale price index. Since June 1977, virtually all institutional
lending rates have been positive.
1.10      As of mid-1977, the country setting for rapid agricultural growth
is highly favorable. Nonetheless, farmers will require time to acquire the
supplies, equipment and knowledge needed to apply higher yielding techniques,
to reorganize resource use, and to become convinced that current public policy
for agriculture will be maintained.
1.11      Production expansion in the immediate future is expected to result
from wider use of available techniques within the limits imposed, among other
factors, by infrastructure weaknesses such as lack of storage facilities and
inefficient train service and port facilities. This trend would be stimulated
by the higher return to inputs, which would result from the new policy, from
the intensification of the cropping pattern and increased productivity of
pastures, and by the fact that land prices would increase more rapidly than
input prices, which typically are more supply elastic. For the longer run,
land and water development is expected to reinforce the upward production
trend, as is presently foreseen in the emerging agricultural development
policies.
II. THE GRAIN SUBSECTOR
A. Supply and Utilization
Production
2.01      Except for rice, grain production in Argentina is heavily concentrated
in the pampas area, which embraces most of the provinces of Buenos Aires, Cordoba,
Entre Rios, Santa Fe and La Pampa. The pampas is a highly fertile plain of
some 45 million ha, of which some 20 million ha are planted annually to grains.
The balance is devoted to livestock production, utilizing both improved and
unimproved pasture land. Grains in the pampas are produced, by and large, in
a mixed livestock/grain farming system whose structure is highly sensitive to
the beef-grain price relationship. A normal rotation includes a number of
grain crops, followed by three or four years of grasses and legumes. Part of
the grain production is used directly for fodder purposes, with some crops
being seeded largely for pasture use (oats, rye and barley) and some of the
cropped area being used for grazing before and after harvest (corn and sorghum).
2.02      Wheat (5.7 million ha) is the principal food-cereal crop in terms
of area planted for the period 1968-77, with corn (4.2 million ha) and sorghum
(2.6 million ha) the major feed-grain crops. Rye is seeded to a large area
each year, about 2.3 million ha, but the harvested area is much smaller, with
the balance used as fodder crop. Oats (1.5 million ha) and barley (0.5
million ha) complete the cereal group, with barley being grown chiefly for



- 4 -
brewing purposes. The oilseed group (2.6 million ha) is dominated by sunflower
seed, linseed, peanuts and soybeans. Of these, sunflower seed is presently
the most important, both in terms of area and production, but it is rapidly
being overtaken by soybeans. Soybeans were virtually unknown to Argentine
agriculture in 1970, but in 1977 its production of 1.2 million m tons equalled
sunflower. Corn, which, along with wheat, has been the most important crop in
Argentina, has declined by one-third over the past decade, while sorghum has
increased by a similar proportion in the same period. Given the total agri-
cultural structure of the pampas, soybeans are popular because it can be
double-cropped after wheat, and sorghum fits in well with the livestock
industry because it can be grazed after harvesting. Typically, the area has
two harvests a year, the harvest of winter grains--wheat, oats, rye, barley--
in December-January, and the harvest of summer grains, comprising corn,
sorghum and the oilseeds, in April-May.
2.03      The largest potential for rapid production expansion lies in the
land resource in the pampas. Much of this fertile area could be converted
from pasture land to grain production quickly and at minimum cost and there
is also considerable potential for yield increases through the use of im-
proved technology. As a result of the new policy direction, a production
volume of about 38 million m tons of all grains is projected for 1985,
compared to the average of 23 million m tons over the past 10 years.
Domestic Utilization
2.04      Wheat is essentially consumed by the human population, though a
considerable area of wheat is pastured annually depending on the wheat-to-beef
price ratio for any particular season. Total domestic consumption of wheat
fluctuates between 4 and 4.5 million m tons annually, including industry pro-
cessing, seed, and waste. Corn and sorghum are used almost totally as animal
feed except for the corn used by the food processing industry. Domestic
utilization of corn is around 4 million m tons and of sorghum around 2.5
million m tons annually. While per capita consumption of wheat (100 kg) is
on the decline, that of pork (9 kg) and poultry (14 kg) can be expected to
increase slightly, implying some growth in overall use of corn and sorghum as
animal feed. Although Argentina has no grain reserves policy, stocks at the
beginning of the marketing year have averaged about 12% of production for
wheat, 2% for corn and 8% for sorghum for the period 1970-76.
Exports
2.05      For the 1970-76 period, Argentina exported about 42% of its grain
production and these exports accounted for about 25% of all export earnings
for that period; an additional 5.5% of total export earnings accrued from
sales of oilseed exports, mostly in the form of oil and meal. Argentina has
been a major exporter of cereals and oilseeds since the beginning of the
century, reaching a peak in the period 1920-40 with an annual average export
of 9.8 million m tons of grain, equivalent, in volume, to about 20% of total
world exports in physical quantities of wheat and 64% of corn. However, her
relative position as a grain exporter has deteriorated considerably over the
last few decades, mainly because of short and extremely variable supply, which



- 5 -
has adversely affected the country's reputation as a reliable supplier and
because of inadequacy of the marketing system and storage facilities. For the
period 1970-76, average annual grain exports were 8.7 million m tons and
Argentine wheat accounted for only 2.7% of world wheat exports and 9.2% of
world coarse grain exports.
B. Marketing
Organization of the Grain Trade
2.06      There are essentially three distinct operations in the grain market-
ing structure: (a) the up-country marketing system, involving the movement of
grain from farms to primary elevator facilities; (b) the pricing system,
involving the operation of the grain exchanges in Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca
and Rosario; and (c) the export operation, involving the sales activities and
vessel chartering of the grain exporters and the port elevator facilities.
2.07      Up-country Marketing Systems.  This system is based on a network of
primary silo facilities designed to receive grain from farms, weigh, condition
(dry, clean and fumigate), store and ship it out to domestic processors and
export silos. The principal agents carrying out this function are the inde-
pendent grain merchants, cooperatives and the Grain Board. Grain merchants
usually purchase the grain FOR (free on rail) port terms, utilizing prices
established on the grain exchange of the port of destination. The producer
pays all costs for: (a) transportation from farm to primary silo and primary
silo to port; (b) weighing, receiving and shipping; (c) drying, cleaning
and fumigating; (d) local taxes as applicable; and (e) commission to the
merchant ranging from 6% to 9% based on the charges for services rendered.
Cooperatives operate facilities similar to those of grain merchants, providing
the same basic services, except that they do not buy grain for their own
account. They give the producer sales assistance by disposing of his grain
through grain exchange brokers or on a direct brokerage basis as directed
by the producer, charging him similar prices for services plus a commission.
Cooperatives handle about 40 to 45% of the total grain harvest. The Grain
Board owns 81 primary silos, 28 port elevators and about 12 underground
silo plants. In the existing marketing structure, the Grain Board is a buyer
of last resort under the Government price support program, which has been
limited largely to wheat. Its primary facilities are utilized mainly for
storing grains for the account of grain merchants and cooperatives while
little grain comes in for conditioning and storage directly from producers.
2.08      The up-country marketing system is characterized by an acute shortage
of storage facilities virtually throughout the production area, which puts
pressure on the producer to sell at low prices and on the primary silo operator
to push through as much grain as possible to maximize his profits. This prac-
tice, in turn, puts pressure on the transportation system, the port silos, and,
finally, the exporter to move grain into export markets as rapidly as possible.
Other major problems of the system are delayed payments to producers due to
lack of financing, deterioration of grain due to lack of storage facilities
and reduced income to producers due to weakness in the Grain Board's system of
inspection and supervision at the primary silo level.



2.09      Pricing System.  The dominant factor in the pricing of grains is the
grain exchange in Buenos Aires, with the grain exchanges in Rosario and Bahia
Blanca limited largely to their specific areas of influence. There are, in
effect, three pricing systems operating simultaneously in the exchange:
(a) the cash market; (b) the futures market; and (c) the parallel market. The
cash market is the most active and handles the bulk of the trade. It deter-
mines the local price for the "spot" or nearby delivery of grain according to
the classic supply-demand principle and is the mechanism used almost exclusively
by primary silo operators for reselling grain taken from producers. The futures
market has been greatly eroded due to the monopoly of the Grain Board in the
grain trade between 1974 and 1976, high inflation, lack of storage facilities
and the absence of an adequate pool of speculative investors to produce enough
volume to make it viable and, therefore, is not presently an important pricing
instrument. A parallel market exists unofficially but perhaps represents a
greater volume of trade than is posted officially through the exchange futures
market. It involves the direct. selling by a country merchant to an exporter,
for future delivery, but at an agreed price, not at the official futures price
as determined in official exchange trading.
2.10      Export Operation.  The export sales of Argentine grain and grain
products are carried on by three groups, the "exporters" comprised of both
national and multinational independent companies; the cooperatives operating
through their central organization; and the Grain Board on a direct basis with
foreign governments or government agencies.  Of these, the "exporter" group is
by far the most active and important in terms of volume and trade. The
exporters offer grain in the international market through their overseas
affiliates, either on an FOB or CIF basis. Unlike operations in the other
major exporting countries, offers from Argentina tend to be seasonal and
concentrated in the periods immediately following the harvest of winter or
summer grains. This is a reflection of the pressure of primary marketing over
a relatively short time period, and the need to get grain through the system
rapidly because of limitations in storage facilities. To some degree this
practice has always exerted a downward pressure on international prices of the
grains being offered, in the same manner in which domestic prices tend to
decline following harvest. While some export contracts are still concluded by
cooperatives themselves, it appears that the bulk of the grain they handle is
resold to exporters for the international market. The Grain Board still
acquires grain--principally wheat in 1976/77--under price support programs.
This grain is resold directly to countries with centrally controlled economies,
which prefer to deal with other Government entities, or it is sold on a tender
basis to exporters for subsequent resale abroad. The Grain Board also has
authority to buy grain in the market to fulfill specific contracts, but it is
expected that this authority would be used only in exceptional circumstances.
Infrastructure
2.11      Grain Storage Facilities.  The many changes in Government grain
policy over the past two or three decades and the frequent shifts in respon-
sibility for grain marketing between the private and public sectors have
contributed to a period of instability during which there has been little



new investment by the private sector in grain handling facilities. The major
port elevators have been in operation for 50 years or more, and, while they
are still capable of an impressive throughput, modernization of unloading
equipment and berthing facilities is required at most of them. USA and
Canada have storage capacities in excess of their total annual grain production,
but Argentina's capacity amounts to less than 50% of its annual grain output.
To accommodate the winter and summer harvests, the existing primary silos must
have an annual turnover of about 3.0 times their capacity, which implies that
large quantities of grain are merely passed through the primary silos for
conditioning and must subsequently be sold and shipped for export to make room
for the balance of the harvest.
2.12      Grain storage facilities are expensive in Argentina because they
must include driers since about 70 to 80% of the summer crops (corn, sorghum,
sunflower, soybean, and such) must be dried prior to storage. This feature
has precluded investment in on-farm storage where driers are too expensive for
individual farmers and has limited it largely to the predominantly winter crop
(wheat, barley, linseed, rye) areas where only about 20% of the grain requires
drying. Storage facilities thus consist mostly of primary silos, which
receive the grain directly from producers, condition it and store it as long
as possible for subsequent transport to a port elevator for export or to a
flour or feed mill for internal consumption. The private sector is expanding
existing facilities and building new ones at the rate of about 500,000 m tons
per year, but the tendency is to concentrate on the more profitable activity
of conditioning (drying) rather than on storage. However, this means that
dried grain is often left in the open for a period of 30 to 60 days, which
results in significant losses.
2.13      Argentina has a total grain storage capacity of about 14 million
m tons distributed as follows:
-   On-farm storage                        2.0 million m tons
-   Primary storage owned by grain
merchants, coops. and Grain Board  7.6 million m tons
-   Milling industry                       1.5 million m tons
-   Grain Board underground storage        1.5 million m tons
Sub-total:            12.6 million m tons
-   Grain Board port elevators             1.2 million m tons
Total:                13.8 million m tons
2.14      Transportation.  Argentina has achieved an extensive and well
developed land transport network and exploited the transport potential of its
coastal waters and the River Plate navigation system. From the very beginning,
metropolitan Buenos Aires has been the focal point of the transport network
within the country and between it and the rest of the world. Grains are one
of the principal freight items throughout the year, but the peak movements of
wheat occur during the January-May period and those of corn and sorghum during
March-July.



- 8 -
2.15      Rail Transport.  Argentina's rail system includes almost 40,000 km
of broad, standard and meter gauge track and a wide variety of rolling stock.
In 1946, the Government purchased the 12 private railway companies and com-
bined these with the six owned by the Federal Government and one by the
Province of Buenos Aires, creating one railway organization called Ferrocarriles
Argentinos (FA). The system is overstaffed, physically run down, over-
extended and inefficiently operated. However, efforts of the Government and
FA during the last two years to improve the system are beginning to show re-
sults. Freight carried by FA in the first six months of 1977 is up 25% (in m
tons) over the same period last year, uneconomic intercity passenger services
(train-km) have been reduced by about one-third, railway staff has been re-
duced from 158,000 to 125,000 (about 21%) and about 5,000 km of uneconomic
lines have been authorized for closure by the Government.
2.16      In 1976, 5.6 million m tons, or less than one-fourth of grain
produced in Argentina, were moved by train. This represented nearly one-
third of rail cargo and was the single most important component of rail
freight. Grain is transported in nine different types of rail cars, in-
cluding mineral hoppers pressed into service to relieve local and seasonal
shortages. Broad gauge rail cars normally used for grain transport total
10,300, including over 5,000 boxcars. Of these, 60 to 70% are in service at
any one time. There are also some 830 standard and meter gauge grain cars.
FA has been trying to encourage the rail transport of grain by granting land
on the right-of-way rent-free for the construction of silos and offering
concessionary freight rates to the Grain Board.
2.17      The two most immediate grain transport problems are the congestion
of rail reception facilities at the ports and periodic shortages of grain
cars.  Based on current data, a typical grain car is used only twice a month
during the peak harvest season because, in many cases, it is shunted aside
and used for temporary storage of grain due to inadequate reception facilities
and inefficient organization in the ports. With the average travel distance
of about 400 km and running speeds of 30 and 40 km/hr, most time is lost
in non-transport activities such as waiting, handling and repairs. FA is
encountering difficulty in capturing a large share of the grain transport
business.
2.18      Road Transport.  The road network expanded rapidly in recent decades
and today totals 1 million km, including 40,000 km of paved roads. Road trans-
port is particularly well developed in the grain growing areas and between
these areas and the ports and urban consumption centers where virtually all
roads are already paved. The trucking industry is largely unregulated and
characterized by relatively free entry and effective competition. Aided
by favorable terrain and local truck production, the truckers compete effec-
tively with other transport modes on short, medium and some long distance
hauls. Trucks accounted for over half of grain deliveries to ports in the
1976/77 season. The Grain Board has recently instituted a port delivery quota
system for trucks, which has improved the productivity of truck transport by
reducing the congestion and delays in the port reception areas.
2.19      River Transport.  The River Plate and the navigable portion of its
tributaries and Parana and Uruguay rivers form an extensive waterway system



- 9 -
serving the heart of Argentina's grain growing region. However, the heavy
siltation brought by the Parana and Uruguay rivers allows only small vessels
upriver and requires costly dredging of the river and estuary ports, includ-
ing the port of Buenos Aires. A maximum of about 300,000 m tons of grains
was barged from the ports of Barranqueras serving the Chaco area and the
port of Concepcion del Uruguay serving the Mesopotamia area during the 1972-
76 period. Improved transshipment facilities are under construction in
Rosario.
2.20      Port Facilities.  Grain is shipped from 13 river and ocean ports,
the three principal ones for export being Bahia Blanca, which handled about
29% of the grain exported in 1976; Buenos Aires, 25%; and Rosario 22%. The
river ports and port of Buenos Aires are also used for barge-ship trans-
shipments. Because the river ports have a relatively shallow draft, it is
common practice for ships to stop first at one of them for partial loading
and then top off at either Buenos Aires or Bahia Blanca. As a result, about
80% of vessels loading grain at Bahia Blanca and Buenos Aires have already
been to river ports. According to grain exporters, this practice is cheaper
than moving the grain by surface to the ports of Buenos Aires and Bahia Blanca
for loading the vessels exclusively at these ports. During the 1967-76
period, average monthly throughput at all ports ranged from a low of 427,000 m
tons in November to a high of 1,024,000 m tons in April. An all-time high
of 2,067,000 m tons was handled in April 1977.
2.21      Reception Facilities.  The design capacity of total grain reception
facilities in the ports for rail and truck transport is estimated at 27,000 m
tons per hour. However, access to port facilities for grain transport vehicles
is often seriously congested; there are numerous delays in the process of
classification, weighing, inspecting and unloading, particularly for rail cars.
2.22      Storage Facilities.  Official grain storage facilities in or near
the ports total 2.7 million m tons, including 1.2 million m tons in elevated
silos and 1.5 million m tons in underground silos. Additional grain storage
facilities, totaling 137,000 m tons capacity, are under construction in the
river ports of Rosario, Buenos Aires, San Nicolas and San Pedro, and the
construction of an 80,000-m-ton port elevator in Barranqueras will be started
in 1978. The utilization of grain storage facilities varies for individual
ports, reflecting the seasonal nature of grain trade.
2.23      Outloading Facilities.  The total installed capacity for outload-
ing grain exports is rated at about 55,000 m tons per hour, however, only a
small portion of that capacity is used at the present time. In April 1977, a
new record of 2.3 million m tons of grain was outloaded through all the ports.
Low ship loading rates continue to be a problem, only partly relieved by
extending the port working hours to handle the peak demand. The lack of spare
parts and proper maintenance, port labor featherbedding, changing ship technology,
river port draft limitations and adverse weather conditions--all'contribute to
the present underutilization of outloading capacity.



- 10 -
2.24      The substantial grain throughput capacity in the existing ports can
handle the expected growth of grain exports in the immediate future, but at
high costs in terminal operations and ship waiting time outside the ports.
To illustrate, the recent operational improvements in effect since January
1977 more than doubled the average monthly throughput compared with the same
period in 1976, the most recent peak export year. However, as a large portion
of the port facilities is old and poorly maintained, it is uncertain that this
higher level of throughput can be maintained.  The Government is therefore
considering possibilities of upgrading existing terminal facilities at major
ports on the Parana and La Plata rivers and at Bahia Blanca. It is expected,
furthermore, that the port of Bahia Blanca will require major increases in
grain reception, storage and outloading capacity by 1982/83. A study will
therefore be undertaken during 1978, with UNDP financing, to (a) recommend
operational improvements and equipment acquisitions which would increase the
efficiency of grain throughput at each of the ports; and (b) provide pre-
liminary engineering and economic analyses for high priority terminal expan-
sion at Bahia Blanca (e.g., berth construction, grain silos, railroad yards
and other shore facilities required to be in operation by 1982).
2.25      More important, the draft limitations of the river ports, including
Buenos Aires, limit the grain bulk carriers calling at Argentina's ports to
sizes well below the worldwide economic size of 50,000 to 60,000 dwt which
serve the large markets of Northern Europe, South Asia and Japan.  Smaller
ships of 20,000 to 30,000 dwt will, of course, be used for Latin American
ports and others with draft limitations.  Lack of deep water berths is becoming
an increasingly important handicap as the continued growth of Argentina's
exports is predicated on its ability to compete in existing and new markets.
Deepening of existing access channels at major ports on the Parana and La Plata
rivers is not considered feasible because of very high siltation rates in these
rivers; even at present depths, annual dredging in the order of 50 million cu m
is required to maintain these channels. Therefore the only possible solutions
would be to deepen the access channel at Bahia Blanca and/or to construct a
new port.
2.26      Deepening of the access channel at Bahia Blanca requires study
of complex hydraulic conditions in the outer bay. Test dredging of two
channel sections is proposed, to determine seabed conditions and resiltation
rates. This work, which is to be accomplished under the pilot dredging
component (para 3.16), would complement ongoing studies of a new port at Punta
Medanos, a location selected by the Secretariat of Maritime Affairs (SEIM)
after extensive analysis of alternative sites. Punta Medanos is located on the
open coast, near the mouth of the La Plata river, and would require very large
investments in new terminal facilities, land transport connections and other
supporting infrastructure. The feasibility of the new port will not be
determined until the ongoing studies are completed in 1979. The deepening of
the channel at Bahia Blanca may be justified, even if the deep water new port
is built, because of large increases in grain exports expected to flow through
Bahia Blanca from its hinterland.



- 11 -
III. THE PROJECT COMPONENTS, COSTS AND FINANCING
3.01      Following identification of the project by a Bank mission in September
1974, the Grain Board, in March 1975, awarded a contract to Direccion General
de Investigacion y Desarrollo (DIGID), a consulting branch of the Argentine
Armed Forces, to prepare a feasibility study for additional inland grain
storage and conditioning facilities. FAO/CP assisted DIGID with particular
reference to a network flow model developed by the latter during three project
preparation missions (December 1975, December 1976 and March 1977). A draft
of the feasibility study was presented to the Bank in March 1977.
A. Brief Description
3.02      The objectives of the project are to:
(a) reduce grain losses from spoilage due to lack of
conditioning and storage facilities;
(b) increase efficiency of primary silo operations
through the introduction of large-scale silos;
(c) provide producer incentives to grow more grain;
(d) reduce cost of marketing and exporting grain;
(e) enable grain producers to increase their incomes through
improved handling and storage and greater marketing
flexibility;
(f) supply grain reliably to export markets at more stable and
higher prices throughout the year; and
(g) facilitate access of intermediate-size grain carriers to
Bahia Blanca.
3.03      The project would finance:  (a) the construction of 20 large
primary silos in grain growing regions of the greatest storage deficit which
would be built at rail lines, with grain being sent to the ports by improved
rail operations; (b) alterations of boxcars to handle grain efficiently;
(c) improvements in the inspection and supervision system of the Grain Board
at the primary silo level; (d) improvements in the existing grain inventory
control system; (e) training of silo operating staff; and (f) pilot dredging
and consulting services for studies related to the channel at Bahia Blanca.
3.04      The silo construction, railway improvements, and management pro-
cedures and training would be administered by the Grain Board which would set
up a Project Committee to take full responsibility for the execution of the
project, including approval of all expenditures and making of technical



- 12 -
decisions. A Project Executing Unit would be set up under a Project Director
to carry out the Project Committee's decisions and to handle the day-to-day
management of the project. Loan proceeds would be channeled through the
Argentine Central Bank to the Grain Board. The pilot dredging component would
be administered by SEIM and loan proceeds would be channeled through the
Argentine Central Bank directly to SEIM.
B. Detailed Features
Silos
3.05      Twenty horizontal silos with an average storage capacity of 100,000
m tons each would be built, each consisting of receiving hoppers and out-
loading equipment for trucks and railway cars, grain drying and cleaning
units, and storage facilities. The actual sizes of storage units and working
bins for each silo complex would vary depending on the expected composition of
grain supply in each location, but a prototype design serving as an example of
a possible arrangement calls for six 700-m-ton working bins, ten 2,000-m-ton
storage units, eight 4,500-m-ton units, four 10,000-m-ton units and six
100-m-ton outloading bins. The silos would have prefabricated concrete walls
and roofs of corrugated aluminum sheets supported by steel trusses. The main
items of equipment to be installed would be weighbridges for trucks and rail-
road cars, mechanical conveyors, driers, cleaners, dust control and aeration
systems, grain temperature indicators and mechanical and electrical controls.
The receiving capacity for each of the three intakes would be 200 m tons per
hour. Most silos would have four driers and corresponding cleaners, each
capable of handling 40 m tons per hour, but space would be allowed for later
expansion of drier capacity.
3.06      Qualified engineering consultant firms would be selected to prepare
detailed designs and functional specifications for the silo structure and
mechanical/electrical equipment. The firms would also prepare tender and con-
tract documents and assist in bid evaluation. During the construction period,
they would provide on-site inspectors to ensure that civil works and equipment
installation conform to contract specifications. Argentine engineering consult-
ants are generally qualified to perform the above tasks, but selected firms
would, most likely, form an association with foreign firms to take advantage
of the experience of the latter in the size and type of silos expected to be
built under the project. It is expected that engineering consultants accept-
able to the Bank would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank about August 1978 by the Grain Board. Furthermore, general consultants
satisfactory to the Bank would be hired to assist the Project Executing Unit
to carry out its various functions (para 6.09), including overall supervision
of the engineering consultants. Terms of reference for the engineering
and general consultants are presented in Annex 1.



- 13 -
Rail Improvements
3.07      Alterations to 2,000 Existing Boxcars.  Alterations consist of
installing four roof doors in each boxcar to permit gravity loading from
silos and horizontal hinged doors at both ends of each car to permit gravity
unloading to an elevating ramp. These modifications are expected to reduce
present loading time of boxcars by one-half and unloading time by two-thirds.
A previous study by the Grain Board and FA concluded that these alterations
are the most practical among the feasible alternatives.
3.08      Alterations to Silo Access Tracks - Port of Bahia Blanca.  Modifi-
cations to silo access railroad tracks at the port of Bahia Blanca under the
project would include construction of a small hump and installation of two
weighbridges for simultaneous weighing and classifying of wagons by type and
by grain immediately before unloading. These improvements would reduce unload-
ing time to the extent that silo reception capacity would, most likely, be
doubled, allowing a corresponding improvement in rail car turnaround time.
3.09      Alterations to Silo Access Tracks - Port of Rosario.  Project works
at the port of Rosario would complete railway improvements already undertaken
by FA and would consist of access tracks to the port silos and a large railcar
classification yard. As a result, throughput is expected to double.
3.10      Railway Interline Connections.  Three interline junctions connecting
the Sarmiento region with the Mitre region at Coronel Granada (Los Callejones)
and at Pehuajo (El Recado and Capitan Castro) in Buenos Aires province would
be constructed. Engineering estimates tentatively show that some 9 km of main
line track would be required, including signaling and switching.
3.11      Silo Access Lines.  The project would construct an average of 1 km
of rail spurs to each of the 20 silos. Secondhand rail, weighing 50 kilos per
meter, would be used as only about 600 trains per annum will move over the
spurs, or slightly over 1.0 million gross m tons. Rail would be welded in
36-meter lengths and fastened by screw spikes, together with new sleepers and
30 cm of stone ballast.
3.12      Offloading Ramps.  Ramps, designed to raise a rail car fitted with
end unloading doors to an angle of 45° in a manner similar to that used now
for truck and trailer unloading, would be constructed at the ports of Bahia
Blanca (two ramps), Buenos Aires (two), and Rosario (four). With the boxcar
alterations proposed, these ramps would cut unloading time and manpower
requirements by two-thirds and also eliminate labor difficulties and special
payments for operations under unhealthy conditions due to excess dust.
Management Procedures and Training
3.13      Inspection and Supervision.  The project would include the training
of about 14 inspectors to carry out an effective supervisory operation which
would cover the project silos initially and later be extended to all primary
facilities as trained personnel become available. Problem areas to be super-
vised would include: (a) licensing and bonding; (b) inspection of scales;



- 14 -
(c) determination of moisture content of grain; (d) issuance of warehouse
receipts; (e) maintenance of stock records and periodic audit; (f) fumigation
requirements; and (g) primary silo tariffs. The proposed program would
require a total of two man-years for course preparation and instruction by the
Director and Deputy Director of the proposed Primary Silo Inspection and
Supervision Branch of the Grain Board. The project would provide for: (a)
salaries and traveling expenses for course instructors, Grain Board staff and
local outside experts in particular disciplines related to the project; and
(b) salaries and expenses of course participants during the instruction period
(Annex 2).
3.14      Inventory Control.  The project would also include installation in
the Grain Board of an inventory control system that would ensure: (a) control
of rail and truck transportation for moving grain; (b) forward programming
of export shipments and use of port facilities; and (c) adequate stock records
by type of grain and its exact location in the marketing system. Consultants
would recommend whether computer terminals or telex equipment would be the
more appropriate link between the Grain Board technical offices in the field
and the head office and between the project silos and the head office of the
Grain Board to transmit the pertinent inventory information. The cost of
consultants' services, equipment and its installation cost would be financed
under the project (Annex 3).
3.15      Training of Silo Staff. A centralized training program would be
established within the Grain Board to prepare project silo managers and
supporting staff--accountants, mechanics, electricians--to operate project
silos. The center would be headed by a full-time director assisted by
instructors from the Grain Board's own staff. The project would finance the
salaries of the local staff of the training program, supplies and equipment
and travel abroad (Annex 4).
Bahia Blanca Pilot Dredging
3.16      The project would also include the following operations for pilot
dredging at Bahia Blanca: (a) hydrographic and oceanographic surveys of the
existing access channel of 97 km (with installation of a survey tower for
tide and wave measurement in the outer bay); (b) dredging of test sections
in the channel (1-million cu m) and observation of resiltation rates; and
(c) preliminary engineering and feasibility analysis for recommended channel
improvements. The work would require 16 months for completion of the surveys,
dredging, preliminary engineering and feasibility analysis, but would include
a further year of channel observations to support forecasts of maintenance
dredging (Annex 5). The surveys and channel design would be accomplished
under a contract for consulting services between a qualified firm of coastal
engineers and SEIM. The dredging of test channel sections would be done
under a separate contract with a suitable dredging firm.



- 15 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.17      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$280
million, of which 37%, or US$105 million, is foreign exchange, which is net of
import surcharge.
3.18      Local and foreign cost components are based on mid-1977 prices and
exchange rate. Silo construction costs include 10% physical contingencies,
mainly to provide for possible extra drainage and to cover other unforeseen
underground problems. A physical contingency of 15% was included for the rail
component to cover additional track work costs; and an 11% physical contingency
was included in the pilot dredging component to allow for unknown site condi-
tions. Also included in the project cost are price contingencies between
mid-1977 and the end of the construction period, applied to both local and
foreign exchange costs at the following annual rates: civil works, 9% in
1977-79 and 8% thereafter; and equipment, including engineering and super-
vision, 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% thereafter.
3.19      For the silo construction component, basic costs for civil works
and for domestically manufactured items were obtained from Argentine contrac-
tors and silo equipment suppliers; costs for imported items were obtained
from importers and checked against those costs received by Direccion Nacional
de Construccion de Elevadores de Granos (DNCEG) through competitive bidding.
For the rail improvement component, basic costs for civil works, rail, rail
car alterations and other items were obtained from FA. All costs were checked
against rates obtained in recent contracts and current force account rates for
civil works on railroad construction and maintenance. For the studies and
technical assistance component, current salaries of Grain Board executives
were used for the professionals working in the Grain Board and current costs
of local and internationally recruited consultants were obtained from contracts
let by DNCEG. For the pilot dredging component, costs of the consulting
services contract are based on Bank's experience with internationally recruited
consulting firms and costs of the dredging contract are based on unit costs of
contract dredging incurred by SEIM in 1977. The average man-month cost per
consultant for all project components is estimated at US$5,500 (including
consultant firm overhead, fees, social charges and other costs, where appli-
cable).



- 16 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
----(US$ Million)----  ---
I.   SILOS
Civil Works                             61.5    27.0    88.5        30
Mechanical and Electrical Works         41.1    34.5    75.6        45
Engineering and Supervision              4.8      3.3      8.1      41
Sub-total                         107.4    64.8   172.2        37
II.   RAILWAY IMPROVEMENTS
Offloading Ramps                         0.3      0.2      0.5      40
Track Improvements and
Wagon Alterations                      9.3      4.9    14.2       35
Sub-total                           9.6      5.1    14.7       35
III.   MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES AND TRAINING
Inspection and Supervision               0.1      -/1     0.1       14
Inventory Control                        0.2      0.3      0.5      60
Training of Silo Staff                   0.4      0.1      0.5      20
Sub-total                           0.7      0.4     1.1       36
IV.   PILOT DREDGING
Survey and Design Contract               0.5      1.3      1.8      67
Dredging Contract                         0.4     1.1      1.5      75
Sub-total                           0.9     2.4      3.3       71
Total Base Cost                   118.6    72.7   191.3        38
Contingencies:
Physical                              12.6      7.0    19.6       36
Price                                 43.8    25.3    69.1        37
Sub-total                          56.4    32.3    88.7       37
Total Project Cost:               175.0   105.0   280.0       37
/1   US$16,400.



- 17 -
D. Financing
3.20      The project would be financed as follows:
FA and
Category              Government /1  Grain Board    IBRD    Total
--------------(US$ Million)----------------
Silos, civil works                                        93.2        39.5    132.7
Silos, mechanical/electrical works           -             60.0       50.3    110.3
Consultants for engineering and
supervision, studies and training,
and pilot dredging                       0.6             7.3         6.1      14.0
Computer equipment                            -               -        0.5       0.5
Railway improvements                       13.2             0.3         7.3     20.8
Test Dredging                               0.4               -         1.3      1.7
Total:                               14.2           160.8       105.0    280.0
Percent of total project cost:             5               58         37       100
/1   FA would finance railway improvements of US$13.2 million and the Govern-
ment would finance under the pilot dredging component US$0.6 million for
consultants and US$0.4 million for test dredging.
3.21      The proposed Bank Loan of US$105 million would be made to the Govern-
ment of the Argentine Republic and would finance about 37% of total project
costs, representing the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange compo-
nents of the project. All funds would be channeled through the Argentine
Central Bank; in turn, would pass them on to the Grain Board, which would be
the executing agency, except for pilot dredging to be carried out by SEIM.
The Bank Loan would be for 15 years, including three years of grace at 7.45%
interest. The Bank would finance US$39.5 million (30%) of the civil works of
the silos and US$50.3 million (45%) of the mechanical and electrical works.
The Grain Board would finance the balance of the civil works and mechanical and
electrical works partly with its own funds of US$116.7 million and partly from
a medium-term private bank loan of about US$36.5 million. The Bank would also
finance US$6.1 million (43%) of the total cost of consultant services, with
the Grain Board and Government contributing the balance. The cost of computer
equipment, amounting to about US$0.5 million, would be funded 100% by the
Bank, as this equipment would be imported. For railway improvements, the Bank
would contribute US$7.3 million (35%) and the Grain Board would fund US$0.3



- 18 -
million corresponding to the local cost of the offloading ramps at the ports.
Local costs of the component, involving alteration of boxcars, part and silo
access lines, interline connections and a small hump at Bahia Blanca port,
amount to US$13.2 million. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would ensure that FA would contribute not less than US$13.2 million
equivalent to cover the local cost component of railway improvements as
required in accordance with the project implementation schedule (para 3.28).
Further, assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would
ensure that the Grain Board would be provided through taxation, export duties
or other appropriate means, with the necessary funds to finance its share of
total project costs (US$160.8 million equivalent). The Bank would finance the
full foreign exchange cost of US$2.7 million for the pilot dredging component.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SELM would be provided with the
necessary funds by Government for the local cost component (US$1 million
equivalent) of pilot dredging.
E. Procurement
Grain Storage Silos
3.22      It is expected that civil works and the mechanical/electrical works
associated with silo construction and equipment would be procured under one
contract. For bid evaluation purposes, bidders would be instructed to present
scope and price of three major equipment categories, i.e., mechanical, electrical
and auxiliary power station so that 15% preference or the applicable import
duties, whichever is less, can be given to domestic manufacturers. Silo works
would whenever possible be grouped geographically into construction contracts
of not more than five silos each, and bids for a single silo would be allowed.
The total value of the contracts for the 20 silos, including contingencies,
would be US$243 million. ICB according to Bank guidelines would be required
for contracts likely to exceed US$1,000,000 each including both civil works
and mechanical/electrical equipment and works. Contracts exceeding US$50,000,
for both c/vil works and mechanical/electrical works, would be subject to
local comVetitive bidding satisfactory to the Bank. All other works and goods
costing   $50,000 or less would be acquired through prudent shopping, mostly
in the local market. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Grain
Board would observe the following procurement procedure: (a) prequalification
of engineering consultants for silo design; (b) competition by prequalified
consultants for submitting design and preparation of bidding documents and
supervision during construction; and (c) ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for construction of the silos based on designs and bidding documents prepared
by selected consultants. Due to variety of locations and soil conditions, it
is expected that more than one design would be adopted and, therefore, more
than one consultant would be hired. Assurances were also obtained at negotia-
tions that: (a) the selected silo designs with their corresponding draft
contracts from the design competition would be referred to the Bank for
approval prior to any commitment by the Grain Board with the selected firms;
(b) the bidding documents for construction would be referred to the Bank for



- 19 -
approval prior to ICB; and (c) the evaluation of bids for construction as well
as proposed contracts would be sent so the Bank for approval prior to any
commitment with contractors.
3.23      Procurement of all consultant services (US$11.9 million) would
be in accordance with local procedures, acceptable to the Bank; it is expected
that foreign consultants will form partnerships with local consulting firms.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Grain Board would send the
qualifications of preselected consulting firms and the proposed draft contracts
for services costing over US$100,000 for Bank approval prior to any commitment.
Minor services up to and including the above limit would be procured directly.
A small computer and terminals (US$0.5 million) included in this project
component would be bulked and procured under ICB.
Rail Improvement
3.24      The alteration of about 2,000 boxcars (US$10.5 million) would be
arranged under competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures, acceptable to the Bank, because this is essentially a repair
job. The work would most likely be distributed among several contractors and
it is expected that at least 50% more quotations would be obtained than
contracts expected to be awarded, to assure adequate competition in the bidding.
3.25      Silo access lines (US$4.2 million), the interline rail connections
(US$2.2 million), the small hump in Bahia Blanca port (US$0.4 million) and
improvements for rail marshalling yards in Rosario port (US$2.9 million) would
be procured through force account by FA, with assistance of sub-contractors.
Procurement and installation of weighbridges, scales, unloading ramps and
other minor improvements in the ports of Bahia Blanca, Rosario and Buenos Aires
(US$0.6 million) would be handled by the Project Executing Unit and procured
under competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Pilot DredginL
3.26      Consulting services and related equipment for the survey and channel
design (US$2.1 million) would be selected in accordance with procedures and
retained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Because of the highly
specialized nature of this work and the absence of experienced Argentine firms
in this field, it is likely that only foreign firms would be invited, but they
would be required to associate with local consultants of their choice, to
participate in the work. The dredging work (US$1.7 million) would be subject
to international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
on Procurement. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SEIM would
proceed with procurement in accordance with the foregoing.
F. Disbursement
3.27      The Bank would disburse Loan funds over a period of four and
one-half years, as follows:



- 20 -
(a) 37% of total expenditures for civil works for the construction
of silos;
(b) 37% of total expenditures for contracted mechanical/electrical
works;
(c)  37% of total expenditures for consultants services for
engineering and supervision and management procedures
and training;
(d) 37% of total cost of rail improvements procured locally;
(e) 100% of foreign cost of computer equipment purchased
under ICB from foreign suppliers; and
(f) 71% of the total cost of the pilot dredging component,
for consulting services, related equipment and dredging.
Disbursements would be made against normal documentation duly certified by the
Project Committee for (a) through (e) and by SEIM for part (f).
3.28      In accordance with the above and the estimated implementation
schedule (Annex 6), the schedule of disbursements is estimated as follows:
Project Year
Source of Financing       1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83    Total
-------------- (US$ Million) ---------------------
IBRD                         3.7       19.0      40.7       32.7        8.9      105.0
Grain Board                  2.3       20.0      52.2       38.4       11.4      124.3
Private Banks                  -        5.0      15.2       15.0        1.3       36.5
FA                           0.1        9.8       3.3          -          -       13.2
Government                   0.7        0.2       0.1          -          -        1.0
Total:                 6.8       54.0      111.5       86.1      21.6      280.0
IV.  DENAND AND MARKET ASPECTS
A. Effective Export Demand
4.01      Much of Argentina's trade in coarse grains has been directed toward
the developed countries, particularly Western Europe and Japan, which accounted
for roughly half of such exports in 1975. The balance has been distributed
widely, with destinations varying from year to year, reflecting fluctuating
needs in individual countries, rather than sustained and continuing markets.
This is particularly true of wheat whereby less than 20% of Argentina's exports
in 1975 went to the developed countries which have been traditional wheat
importers.



- 21 -
4.02      The inference from the current distribution of export markets is
that a major market development program should be undertaken by Argentine
grain interests to establish continuing outlets and to merchandise the pro-
jected increase in export supplies, roughly estimated at about 6 million m
tons of wheat and about 17 million m tons of corn and sorghum by 1984/85.
Since so much of the Argentine grain export trade is now in the hands of
multinational companies, which quite normally sell grain on optional-origin
contracts (i.e., for sorghum, it could come from Argentina, United States or
Australia, whichever was most profitable to the trader at a particular time),
such a promotional program should be undertaken by distinctly "national"
entities, independent grain companies, cooperatives and, particularly, by
Government departments or agencies. The objective is to make the buyer look
to Argentina as a reliable supplier of at least part of his grain needs,
on the basis of price, quality and shipping performance.
4.03      Argentine markets in the developed countries can be maintained
at recent levels, but may not expand materially because of the strong competi-
tion from other well-established exporters. The obvious outlets for additional
export supplies are in the developing countries, where import needs will be
the greatest, and growing. Recent studies 1/ indicate that by 1985 the
developing countries will have a food grains gap of approximately 75 million m
tons, or some 40 million m tons in excess of their 1974 import requirements.
This level of need allows for an increase in per capita grain consumption from
approximately 176 kg to 192 kg in grain equivalent, additional demand due to
population growth and some improvement in income levels.
B. Demand for Project Storage Facilities
4.04      During marketing year 1976/77, Argentina produced about 31 million
m tons of grain, of which 14 million m tons corresponded to winter crops and
17 million m tons to summer crops. By 1984/85 the Secretariat of Agriculture
is forecasting a total production of about 38 million m tons and exports of
about 23 million m tons. This expected increase in production would require
additional grain storage and conditioning facilities not only to provide
incentives for producers to grow grains but also to avoid deterioration of
grains and depressed prices at harvest time.
4.05      The project facilities would be primary silos directly serving the
producer by receiving, conditioning, fumigating, storing and shipping grains
generally at a cost slightly lower than existing rates. The use of project
silos is virtually assured because: (a) Government policies are providing
producers with incentives to grow more grain; (b) the silos would permit pro-
ducers to avoid deterioration of grains due to late harvesting and/or inade-
quate storing; (c) they would also allow owners of the grain to retain a
1/   World Bank Working Paper No. 247, November 1976.  "Developing Country
Food Grain Projections for 1985."



- 22 -
certain volume in storage during and immediately after harvest time and there-
by receive a high price for the grain; (d) they would also receive special
service from FA through the use of block trains at rates reflecting the im-
provement in the transport of grain, which are already in use by FA and
large grain merchants; and (e) they would be located in areas of large
storage and conditioning deficits.
4.06      The determination of proposed project silo sites (Map IBRD 13012)
is based on the results of a network flow model and on the results of studies
(para 6.10) carried out by the Grain Board to assess the financial viability
for each silo site (Annex 7). Early indications from the model focussed
attention on specific regions where storage facilities were estimated to be in
greatest deficit based on a production level of 38.4 million m tons by 1984/85.
The network flow model minimizes the sum of all transport, storage and grain
deterioration costs including various cost penalties for port draft, export
destination and various waiting times. Constraints were imposed on the
maximum export of grain at each port by time period. Primary silos as well
as project silos were generally limited to 2.5 turnovers per silo and a
maximum of 10% of wheat production, in certain regions close to ports, was
allowed to flow directly from farm to the underground storage facilities
nearest that port. Finally, the area of influence (i.e., distance grain
would be transported to project silos) of project silos was limited to a
radius of 100 km. Results indicate that about 10 million m tons of addi-
tional storage facilities in the aggregate would be economically justified
by 1984/85. This deficit is expected to be covered, in part, by the project
providing 2 million m tons and, in part, by the private sector providing about
5 million m tons of grain storage capacity. The project was limited to 2
million m tons as a first phase of a longer term storage program due to (a)
the capacity of the grain subsector to absorb efficiently this additional
storage and (b) administrative constraints within the Grain Board to operate
or lease more than 2 million m tons of new storage.
V. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Grain Storage and Controls
Grain Storage
5.01      The project would introduce a number of new developments in tech-
nology into the Argentine grain marketing system which would extend beyond
the immediate benefit of providing urgently needed primary grain storage and
conditioning facilities in the specific silo locations.
5.02      One innovation is the introduction of large silo units.  At present,
roughly 80% of the primary elevator facilities in Argentina have a capacity
of 5,000 m tons or less. They have been developed essentially to serve
small local communities, and particularly for conditioning grain--drying,
cleaning, fumigating--rather than storage. Many of the units are made up of



- 23 -
a series of small metal silos, which could be readily added to as local demand
required and finances permitted. Because most of the revenue from these
facilities arises from conditioning grain, the trend has been to concentrate
on drying equipment rather than on storage. The project silos will establish,
at the primary level, storage facilities of a size which would allow for quite
a substantial reduction in storage costs and, at the same time, provide a better
balance between capacity to condition grain and capacity to store it.
Regulation of the Trade
5.03      The project would also help introduce a more sophisticated system
of supervision and inspection of the grain trade, particularly in the primary
sector by training a group of primary silo inspectors who would help control
abuses in the system. At the present time, there is little supervision, and
producers are in a disadvantageous position vis-a-vis country merchants,
who take in grain very much "on their own terms." The merchant's receiving
scales are rarely, if ever, checked. He assesses dockage (foreign material
content) in samples which are taken by his own employees. He determines the
moisture content, in most cases, on which volume discounts and drying charges
are based. His stocks are never monitored against purchases and sales. All
these practices leave great opportunity for abuses at the expense of the
producer, and the proposed system of regulation and inspection would go a
long way toward correcting the situation.
B. Grain Transportation
5.04      The project silos would have efficient rail loading facilities,
which would allow a continuous movement in block trains. Given the
projected throughput of each silo (para 7.01), one or more complete trains
would be required each working day to maintain an even flow of grain and
maximize efficiency. It is anticipated that the railways would allocate
complete trains to the project silos for a continuous shuttle service to the
ports. While the "unit" train concept cannot be utilized with existing rail
track and rolling stock and the receiving facilities at port silos, the
shuttle concept with block trains and uniform grain cars on a continuous run
basis would greatly reduce loading, transit and unloading time.
5.05      The project would also improve the inventory control system,
initially for the operation of the new silos, but later to be extended to
all primary elevator facilities. The major benefits of such a system would
be to provide more positive control over the movement of grain by rail and
optimal use of storage capacities.



- 24 -
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Government
6.01      The borrower would be The Argentine Republic; proceeds from the
loan for silo construction, railway improvements, management procedures and
training would be channeled to the Grain Board, which would be the execut-
ing agency for those components but would make available to FA those proceeds
of the loan to undertake the railway improvements; and proceeds from the loan
for pilot dredging would be channeled to SEIM, which would be the executing
agency for only that component.
B. Grain Board Organization and Operation
6.02      The Grain Board was chartered in the early 1930s as a result of
the depression to promote production of wheat, corn and linseed by offering
support prices to farmers. It underwent several changes over the years, but
its current structure and functions date essentially from 1963 when it was
reorganized and most laws related to grain marketing were updated. From 1974
to March 1976, the Grain Board was the sole buyer and exporter of the major
grains: wheat, corn, sorghum and sunflower, with a price support function for
most of the remaining grains. In March 1976 the grain trade was liberalized
and the Grain Board returned to a price support function as a buyer of last
resort.
6.03      The Grain Board fulf:ills the following basic functions:
(a) controls all transactions involving grain. It formulates
and enforces policies and regulates marketing systems
related to all aspects of grain marketing and is authorized
to inspect regularly all facilities for receiving, condi-
tioning, storing, and shipping grain;
(b) intervenes directly in the marketing of the basic grains if
Government considers this advisable to support production
or regulate the market; and
(c) administers the public network of port elevators, silos and
other complementary facilities.
6.04      The Grain Board has five managerial divisions and 19 departments,
with the Elevator Operation Division being by far the largest (Annex 8). It
administers 28 port elevators and 81 field silos and employs about 4,700
persons of the total Grain Board work force of about 6,000.
6.05      A proposal on the establishment of a Grain Elevator Company,
which would be, in fact, comprised of the Elevator Operations Department of
the Grain Board and the DNCEG of the Secretariat of Public Works and Transport,
is now under discussion both within and outside Government. The purpose of



- 25 -
the SAE would be to construct and operate grain elevators in the ports as
well as at the primary level. It appears that there will be no early decision
on its outcome due to the intensity of the debate and due to the necessity to
re-evaluate all the assets of the Grain Board before the SAE can be constituted.
In the event that the SAE is established and designated by Government to
undertake silo construction, railway improvements, and training components of
the project, the Bank would need to approve the SAE and an amendment to the
Loan Agreement would be agreed prior to transfer of responsibility for project
execution from the Grain Board to the SAE.
Grain Silo Construction
6.06      Major repair work on the Grain Board port installations and silos
as well as construction of new facilities is carried out by DNCEG. Its
organization comprises a branch of the Secretariat of Public Works and Trans-
portation, although it works exclusively for the Grain Board. DNCEG's total
staff is about 100 persons, including engineers, draftsmen, and technicians.
The DNCEG is well organized and experienced in the design of silos and in the
work of preparing specifications, bidding procedures, evaluation of bids,
contracting, and supervision of construction. The DNCEG has gained consider-
able experience over its 40 years of operation and, at present, has under
construction two primary elevators totaling 20,000 m tons of storage capacity
and four port elevators totaling 137,000 m tons capacity (80,000 in Rosario,
20,000 in San Pedro, 12,000 in San Nicolas and 25,000 in Buenos Aires). A
port facility in Barranqueras for 80,000 m tons is also in the initial stage
of construction. However, the technical staff of DNCEG has been depleted
lately due to overall Government policy to decrease civil servants and there-
fore there is need for additional professional staff as well as consulting
engineers to implement the project silo program.
Sources of Financing
6.07      According to its charter, the Grain Board is funded by the proceeds
from a tax on grain exports up to 2% on the FOB values and 1% on the value of
the grain processed for domestic consumption. As the Grain Board derives
substantial income from the fees charged for the use of its port elevators,
silos and other services, it is at present only collecting tax in the amount
of 1% on grain exports, which, in addition to its other income, has placed it
in a comparatively healthy financial situation in spite of the inflationary
pressure of the last years, as shown in the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Statement of the Years 1974-75-76 in Annex 8. The DNCEG is also funded by an
additional tax on the FOB export value of grain amounting to 1.5%, which has
enabled it to finance adequately construction of silos and major repairs for
the Grain Board.



- 26 -
C. Project Management
Project Committee
6.08      The Grain Board is an experienced institution, financially sound,
and capable of carrying out the proposed project. The Government would set up
a Project Committee within the Grain Board to take full responsibility for the
execution of silo construction and railway improvements, including approval of
all expenditures and making of technical decisions. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Project Committee would consist of four representa-
tives of the Grain Board, two representatives each of the Secretariat of
Agriculture and DNCEG and one representative each of FA and the Secretariat
of Economic Programming and Coordination. The chairman of the Committee
would be the Undersecretary of Agriculture and, in his absence, one of the
representatives of the Grain Board. The establishment of the Project
Committee would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
Project Executing Unit
6.09      The Grain Board and DNCEG would continue operating under existing
arrangements in carrying out the construction of project silos, which will
comprise virtually the total activity of DNCEG during the second through fourth
years of project implementation. A Project Executing Unit, under the authority
of the Project Committee, would be established and would be responsible for
carrying out the Project Committee's decisions and for handling the day-to-day
management of silo construction and railway improvements. It would be staffed
by three representatives of DNCEG, three of the Grain Board and one of FA and
technically supported by general consultants and engineering consultants. A
Project Director, who would be the chairman of this Unit, would be appointed
from the staff of DNCEG. A condition of Loan effectiveness would be the
establishment of the Project Executing Unit, which would have the following
functions:
(a) selection of engineering consultants;
(b) preparation of detailed design of silos;
(c) preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of tenders;
(d) supervision of construction;
(e) arrangements for payment of contractors and equipment suppliers
and application of cost adjustment to contracts;
(f) preparation and periodic updating of the overall budget for
engineering and construction expenditures;
(g) start silo operation and trial runs to ensure that guarantee
clauses are met; and
(h) preparation of quarterly progress reports.



- 27 -
Selection of Silo Sites
6.10      The Grain Board has undertaken studies of the 20 proposed silo loca-
tions with reference to production forecast, existing and planned expansion
of primary silos and demand for more storage, in order to confirm that project
silos would have sufficient grain throughput and storage to ensure the financ-
ial viability of individual silos. A financial analysis has been carried out
of all proposed project silo sites for this purpose (para 4.06). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government would ensure that the Grain
Board and FA would acquire the land as needed for the construction of project
silos and rail access tracks.
Lease Contracts
6.11      It is the policy of the Grain Board to return the grain trade and
handling to the private sector in the short term. In line with this policy,
the Grain Board would attempt to lease project silos to qualified groups of
operators, who would agree to operate them as primary facilities to receive
grain for purchase or for storage; to dry, clean and fumigate grain as
required; and to merchandise it privately or on consignment on the domestic
market or on the world market through grain exporters. Invitations to bid
for leases would be called gradually to gain experience. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the lease contracts would be for one to three
years from the start of silo operations, with an option to purchase the facility.
In order to stimulate competition and to provide as wide an opportunity as
possible to operate large-scale silos, the Grain Board would not lease or sell
more than one silo to any lessee or purchaser. If the lessee enters into a
purchase contract during the initial leasing period, the lease fees paid up to
date of the purchase contract would be applied against the purchase price.
In the case of project silos sold for cash, the Grain Board would either
prepay the corresponding portion of the Loan or would use the proceeds from
the sale to finance the construction of new, large scale primary silos subject
to Bank approval. In the case where the Grain Board finances a buyer for part
of a silo, the purchaser will be required to take over the proportionate part
of the Bank Loan outstanding at the time of sales which is attributable to
construction of the silo he is buying. He will also be required to repay this
part of his debt within the time remaining in the life of the Bank Loan for
the project, assuming also the foreign exchange risk. Assurances were also
obtained that a project silo that was not leased immediately after its construc-
tion is completed would be operated by the Grain Board, with a trained silo
manager and trained supporting staff. The Grain Board would grant an annual
license of the project facility for operation as a public elevator, but prior
to issuance of license, the lessee would furnish security to the Grain Board,
by bond, for the performance of all obligations as specified in the terms of
the lease and for the payment of all sums that may become due under any
contract by the licensee relating to his operation of the elevator. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that pro forma lease contracts would be submitted
to the Bank for review prior to signing by lessees. Suggested terms and condi-
tions for leasing project silos are in Annex 9.



- 28 -
Railway Improvements
6.12      The railway component of the project would be carried out by FA
except for the construction and installation of the offloading ramps for
converted boxcars and trackage within the project silo area which would be
carried out by the Grain Board. Assurances were obtained that the Grain Board
and FA would carry out all necessary tests prior to installation of hinge
doors on both ends of 2,000 railcars for unloading grain and of construction
of all proposed unloading ramps. Assurances were also obtained that the Grain
Board would enter into contractual arrangements with FA to ensure that FA
would provide the necessary locomotives and railcars for transporting grain
from project silos directly administered by the Grain Board to the various
ports at rates which reflect the improvements in the transport of grain.
Management and Training
6.13      The Grain Board would be responsible for developing the inspection
and supervision program and inventory control system and for training project
silo managers and supporting staff.
Pilot Dredging
6.14      The pilot dredging component of the project would be carried out
by SEIM, assisted by consultants. The contract for dredging would be admin-
istered by the National Directorate for Construction of Ports and Waterways,
an agency of SEIM.
D. Construction Schedule
6.15      Project silos would be constructed over a three-and-a-half-year
period following a 12-month period for design, engineering and contractor
selection, as shown in the Construction and Implementation Schedule in Annex
6. The design phase is expected to start in May 1978, while construction
would start in May 1979. All project silos would be operational by November
1982. Most of the railway improvements, including boxcar alterations, would
be carried out during the second year of project implementation. The improve-
ments of Grain Board's inspection and supervision operations and inventory
control system would be introduced during the second and third years. Train-
ing of silo managers would begin during the third year and continue until the
end of the implementation period. The contract for consultant services on
the pilot dredging component would be awarded by mid-1978 and would be awarded
by mid-1978 and would take 28 months; test dredging would begin about the
first quarter of 1979.
E. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
6.16      The Grain Board's accounting system for its service activities is
satisfactory, and, under Argentine law, accounts are audited by the General



- 29 -
Accounting Office of the Treasury on a quarterly basis. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the annual audit reports would be sent to the
Bank within four months of the close of the Grain Board's fiscal year.
6.17      To facilitate supervision of the silo construction, railway improve-
ments, management procedures and training, assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that the Grain Board would maintain separate accounts for the project
for recording funds withdrawn from the Bank loan and from other sources, and
for all other transactions. For the pilot dredging component, assurances
were obtained at negotiations that SEIM would maintain separate accounts for
the component, for recording funds withdrawn from the Bank loan and from
Government.
6.18      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Grain Board would
prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly reports on all project components
except pilot dredging, for which it would be the responsibility of SEIM
to prepare and submit to the Bank bi-monthly progress reports.
VII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
7.01      Operation of the project silos would be a financially viable enter-
prise. The financial models show costs and income of the following, under
different ownership arrangements: (a) buyer of the silo; (b) lessee; (c) Grain
Board as lessor; and (d) Grain Board as silo operator. Under lease contract
or purchase of silo, the financial models assume that a unit would reach an
annual turnover of 2.5 times its capacity of 100,000 m tons in the third year
of operations. Annex 10 contains a detailed project silo model associated
with a flow diagram showing the throughput of the silo and the ownership of
the grain entering and leaving the silo. The turnover rate of 2.5 times is
considered conservative as primary type of silos, privately owned, operate
frequently at higher turnovers, given the acute shortage of storage space.
With this volume, and charging tariffs for grain conditioning and storage just
slightly lower than current rates, a silo would yield a financial rate of
return of 18% on an investment of US$10.9 million per silo, including physical
contingencies and 8% interest during construction. Provided a silo is purchased
by a firm and the buyer contributes 20% of his own funds as equity, the margin
on the operations is sufficient to allow amortizing his debt at 8% interest
over eight years. Working capital requirements for purchase of grain by
lessees would come from their own resources and the private banking system.
7.02      A silo operated by the Grain Board would be expected to reach an
annual turnover of two times capacity. The silo would charge a commission of,
at least, 5% on services rendered, and collect, at least, US$1 equivalent
per m ton shipped by block trains (para 6.12). As the Grain Board would not
take title to the grain stored in project silos, it would not benefit from
price increases on grain held in storage. These benefits would go instead
to producers, grain merchants, cooperatives and exporters, who would be
the users of the silos. The expected financial rate of return to the Grain



- 30 -
Board would thus be about 10%. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the Grain Board would levy such leasing fees or direct charges for
services as would enable it to earn an average annual financial rate of return
of about 10% on the capital invested for the construction of the silos.
Assuming that the Grain Board would operate half of the project silos and
lease the other half, it is estimated that the Grain Board would have a
satisfactory project cash flow (Annex 10).
7.03      In the case of leasing, similar operating conditions would yield
a profit (before income tax) of US$860,000 annually to the lessee, after the
payment of a yearly lease fee of US$1,700,000 to the Grain Board. Although
the fee would be lower during the first two years of operations, income from
leasing would yield the Grain Board a reasonable financial rate of return
on its investment. A summary of data on estimated net income under (a) lease
contract to lessee and Grain Board; (b) purchase of facility by lessee; and
(c) operation by Grain Board of a 100,000-m-ton silo is given in the following
table.
Under Purchase    Under
Under Lease Contract      by Lessee    Grain Board
Lessee   Grain Board        Owner        Operation
-----------------(US$   '000)
Investment Cost 1/
-      9,500         10,900 2/        9,500
Annual Total Gross Income at Full
Development                           22,443           -        22,443           1,865
Annual Total Operating Costs            19,883           -        19,883             497
Annual Net Income at Full Development
(before taxes)                          860 3/   1,700 4/        2,560           1,368
Annual Debt Service 5/                       -         920         1,500             920
Annual Net Income After Debt Service
and Income Tax                           602        780 6/         560             448
Annual Net Income After Full
Amortization and Income Tax              602       1,700         1,900           1,368
Financial Rate of Return (%)                 -          12%           18%             10%
(before interest)
1/   With physical contingency, without price contingency.
2/   Includes interest during construction as buyer purchases silo during fourth
year of construction.
3/   Net income to lessee after lease payment of US$1.7 million to Grain Board.
4/   Lease payment to the Grain Board.
5/   Equity contribution of Grain Board, 48%; of owner, 20%.  Annual debt
service used was annual average during 6th through 9th years of project
implementation.
6/   Grain Board would not pay income tax.



- 31 -
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits
8.01      The proposed investments would result in economic benefits to the
country of over US$70 million annually at full development (the eighth year
after the beginning of the project). Benefits would accrue in form of
(a) higher export prices for the portion of grain stored over a period of
time; (b) availability of additional storage facilities which would help
reduce grain losses due to lack of storage; and (c) reduced distribution
costs, including vehicle waiting time; grain transport and handling costs;
and interest costs on grain in transit. Due to the experimental nature of
the Bahia Blanca pilot dredging, its benefits have not been quantified
(para 2.26). For a detailed breakdown of these benefits, see Annex 11.
Improved Export Prices
8.02      By increasing storage facilities, the project would encourage hold-
ing grain in anticipation of higher export prices during the post-harvest
season. The historical differential between the harvest time price and average
annual export price has been 10% for corn and sorghum and 15% for wheat and
oilseeds. Allowing for the fact that even with adequate storage facilities,
the farmers would continue to sell a substantial portion of their crops
immediately after the harvest to pay off financial obligations, only one-half
of the grain handled by project silos is expected to benefit from an improved
export price differential. Higher export prices should be partially reflected
in higher farmgate prices, which would provide incentives to increase produc-
tion, given the relatively high supply elasticity among Argentine farmers. At
full development, the annual benefits due to improved export prices are esti-
mated at US$41.2 million.
Reduced Grain Losses
8.03      Grain losses due to the lack of storage are estimated to affect 70%
of corn and sorghum expected to be stored in project silos and would average
7.5% of their respective FOB prices. The availability of expanded storage
facilities provided by the project would eliminate these losses, amounting to
US$16.6 million annually.
Distribution Cost Savings
8.04      The project would lower grain distribution costs but the amount of
savings would vary from silo to silo, depending on the distance between them
and the ports and on the improvement of reception facilities in different
ports financed by the project:



- 32 -
(a) Handling cost savings. The modern grain handling (loading and
unloading) facilities at the project silos and improved unloading
facilities at the ports would reduce grain handling costs. For
the project silos using ports with improved unloading facilities,
the estimated handling cost saving is US$1.42 per m ton, while
for the grain shipped to other ports, the handling cost saving
is estimated at US$1.15 per m ton. For the project as a whole,
the handling cost savings would amount to US$6.9 million annually.
(b) Transport cost savings. The project envisages the use of block
trains operating on a constant schedule between the project silos
and the ports. The economic cost of rail transport under these
conditions is expected to decline from US$6.50 per 1,000 m ton/km
to US$5.08 per 1,000 m ton/km, generating US$2.0 million in annual
transport cost savings.
(c) Waiting cost savings. Waiting costs are the costs of keeping rail
cars waiting to load or unload grain. At present, over 80% of a
typical grain car cycle time is spent in waiting. The reduction
in waiting time would depend on which ports were used but would
range from five to seven days per cycle time. The annual value of
waiting time savings attributable to the project is estimated at
US$3.5 million.
(d) Interest cost savings. Grain tied up in transit incurs interest
cost. Interest costs with the project are expected to decline
between 40% and 90%, depending on the availability of improved
rail reception facilities at the ports. The annual saving in
interest costs on grain handled by project silos is estimated at
US$772,000.
B. Costs
8.05      Project costs for economic evaluation include physical contingencies
and are based on mid-1977 price levels. Wherever appropriate, these costs
have been adjusted for import duties and taxes. Salvage cost estimates were
made for project components with a useful life exceeding 20 years. The
adjusted value of project investment costs is estimated at US$167.6 million;
operation and maintenance costs at US$5.7 million during first 10 years and
US$7.2 million during following 10 years; and working capital requirements
at US$54.5 million.
Economic Rate of Return
8.06      The economic rate of return (ERR) on the proposed grain silo project
would be 20%. Should all costs of the project increase by 20% without increas-
ing value of benefits, the ERR would be 17%; should costs increase by 10% and
benefits decline by 10%, the ERR would be 17%; should volume throughput decline



- 33 -
by 20%, the ERR would decline to 16%; should total benefits slip by two years
and investment costs maintain their original schedule, then ERR would be 15%.
Thus, the project appears economically sound and justified for Bank financing.
C. Project Risks
8.07      The project does not have unusual risks but may encounter problems
if grain production fails to reach forecast levels and management of the silos
proves inefficient.
Grain Production Less Than Forecast
8.08      Grain production was about 31 million m tons in 1976/77, and it is
expected to reach 38 million m tons under the project, which would seem a
realistic target, under present policy incentives. However, if policies
change adversely for farmers, production goals would be difficult to achieve.
It is hoped that Government would maintain present export tax, credit and
support price policies. Grain production, which determines storage demand,
is also affected by (a) unfavorable weather, which would have a depressing
effect on grain output; (b) world grain prices not maintaining the upward
trend shown by Bank forecasts; and (c) beef prices, which, if strong, may
cause a substitution of grain area by pasture.
Inefficient M4anagement of Silos
8.09      While inefficient management might result from many factors, this
risk could be reduced by leasing and/or selling the project silos to the
private sector. If the silos are managed by the Grain Board, expected
throughput of grain may be less than if the facility were under private
management and, therefore, the returns to investment (net profits) could be
less. However, under most circumstances, the enterprise would be financially
viable.
Pilot Dredging
8.10      The pilot dredging component involves the uncertainties inherent
in an exploration of coastal conditions where little data is available. The
sequence of proposed operations is designed to minimize these risks. If the
first phase of the survey by consultants indicates that physical conditions
for channel deepening are highly unfavorable, the test dredging will not be
undertaken and that portion of the loan will be cancelled. If it is decided
to go forward with the test dredging, the work will be so located as to
permit use of the pilot channels as part of the future navigation channel
at Bahia Blanca.



- 34 -
D. Impact of Silos on Environment
8.11      Silos would be equipped with dust collectors around the intake
pits and around the outloading spouts, which would reduce dust pollution con-
siderably. There would be no special noise from operation of units, and all
measures would be taken to keep rodents out of the silos. All grain received
would be fumigated with phostoxin tablets to minimize the impact of rodents
and birds.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ON LOAN CONDITIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a)  it would ensure that FA would contribute not less than
US$13.2 million equivalent to cover the local cost component
of railway improvements as required in accordance with the
project implementation schedule (para 3.21);
(b)  Grain Board would be provided through taxation, export duties
or other appropriate means with the necessary funds to finance
its share of total project costs (US$160.8 million equivalent)
(para 3.21);
(c)  SEIM would be provided with the necessary funds for the local
cost component (US$1 million equivalent) of pilot dredging
(para 3.21);
(d)  a Project Committee would be established and consist of four
representatives from the Grain Board, two from DNCEG, one
from FA, two from Secretariat of Agriculture and one from
Secretariat of Economic Programming and Coordination (para 6.08);
(e)  a Project Executing Unit would be established headed by a
Project Director responsible for carrying out the Project
Committee's decisions and for handling the day-to-day manage-
ment of silo construction and railway improvements (para 6.09);
(f)  it would ensure that the Grain Board and FA would acquire
the land as needed for the construction of project silos
and rail access tracks (para 6.10); and
(g)  the Grain Board and FA would carry out all necessary tests
prior to installation of hinge doors on both ends of 2,000
railcars for unloading grain and of construction of all
proposed unloading ramps (para 6.12).



- 35 -
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Grain Board
that:                                                 -
(a) the lease contract for the project silos would be for one
to three years at the start of silo operations with an
option to purchase the silo (para 6.11);
(b) a project silo that was not leased immediately after its
construction is completed would be operated by the Grain
Board, with a trained silo manager and trained supporting
staff (para 6.11);
(c) pro forma lease contracts would be submitted to the Bank for
review prior to signing by lessees (para 6.11);
(d) it would enter into contractual arrangements with FA to
ensure that FA would provide the necessary locomotives and
railcars for transporting grain from project silos directly
administered by the Grain Board to the various ports at rates
which reflect the improvements in the transport of grain
(para 6.12); and
(e) it would levy such leasing fees or direct charges for
services as would enable it to earn an average annual
financial rate of return of, at least, 10% on the capital
invested for construction of the silos (para 7.02).
9.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from SEIM that:
(a) consultants and equipment required for consulting services
would be selected in accordance with procedures and retained
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.26);
(b) the dredging work would be contracted in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for international competitive bidding
(para 3.26);
(c) it would maintain separate accounts for the pilot dredging
component for recording all funds withdrawn from the Bank
loan and from Government (para 6.17); and
(d) it would send to the Bank bi-monthly progress reports (para 6.18).
9.04      It would be a condition of Loan effectiveness that the Borrower
would have established the Project Committee and the Project Executing Unit
(paras 6.08 and 6.09).
9.05      With the foregoing assurances, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank Loan of US$105 million to Argentina for a period of 15 years, including
three years of grace.
January 26, 1978



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Engineering and General Consultants
1.        The Grain Board will invite proposals for services from qualified
consulting firms for preparation of tender documents, including detailed design
and technical specifications, for bidding on the construction of 20 inland
silos. The firms would be expected to provide full supervision of silo con-
struction.
A. Preparation of Tender Documents
2.        The engineering consultants would be responsible for preparing all
documents required for tendering of the construction contracts, including:
(a) bidding advertisement and tender invitations;
(b) general conditions;
(c) special conditions;
(d) technical specifications;
(e) all design drawings required for construction, including:
- all structural engineering designs;
- all civil engineering layouts, including site drawings; and
- machinery layout and specifications;
(f) instruction on the submission of tenders;
(g) form of contractor's tenders (bid form);
(h) form of construction contract; and
(i)  questionnaires and qualification form as needed for qualification
of contractors.
3.        The above documents shall show clearly all requirements necessary to
carry out the construction cont:racts and shall conform to accepted engineering
practice for similar documents used for the grain storage construction industry.
The engineering consultants shall submit all documents to the Grain Board and
the Bank for consultation, review, and approval before printing such documents



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
in final form and advertising them. The consulting engineer would have the
major responsibility for providing clarification of the tender documents to
inquiring contractors and notification of such to the other contractors.
B. Tender Documentation and Evaluation Phase
4.        The engineering consultants would:
(a) obtain field information on topography of the site, including
sub-soil conditions and availability and location of utilities
and communication facilities, and determine their feasibility
for each silo;
(b) prepare site plans showing location and orientation of the
silos in relation to their surroundings, indicating location
of conveyors for unloading, the head house, the processing
equipment, the storage silos, the weighbridges, offices and
staff accommodations, electrical substations and control
rooms, approach roads and railway line connections;
(c) prepare a grain flow diagram and describe functional require-
ments for civil, mechanical, electrical and other works;
(d) prepare functional specifications for civil, mechanical and
electrical materials, equipment and works;
(e) prepare general specifications for civil, mechanical and
electrical materials, equipment and work;
(f) prepare plan, elevation and sectional drawings and details of
structural design, mechanical/electrical equipment and
sewage systems;
(g) prepare technical specifications for all civil, mechanical,
electrical and sanitary works for the units;
(h) prepare list of workshop machinery, laboratory equipment, spare
parts, to be supplied under the contract, and their general
specifications;
(i) prepare tender documents, including forms for tender, bid
bond, performance bond and other guarantees;
(j) prepare contractors' qualifications questionnaire;



- 38 -
ANNEX I
(k)  prepare all of the above documents in draft form and
submit them to the Grain Board and the Bank for review,
and, on approval, print sufficient copies for issues to
the intending bidders;
(1)  advertise the invitation to international tender, in accordance
with Bank guidelines;
(m)  advise and assist the Grain Board in all legal and technical
issues in connection with the tenders; and
(n)  on receipt of the tenders, analyze, evaluate and make
recommendation to the Grain Board for award in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
C. Construction Supervision Phase
5.        The construction supervision of the consulting engineers would
include:
(a)  inspecting machinery and materials in plants during manufacture,
if it is, after consultation with the Grain Board, deemed
prudent to do so;
(b)  maintaining staff of on-site supervising engineers to supervise
the work and performance of all civil, mechanical/electrical,
and other contractors and quality control of material and
equipment;
(c)  reviewing and following through contractors' and suppliers'
schedules;
(d)  maintaining construction accounts;
(e)  checking computations, preparing change orders, and examining
applications for payment from contractor and equipment and
machinery/electrical suppliers;
(f)  advising and assisting the Grain Board, at its request, in
dealing with disputes between the Grain Board and contractors
in the negotiations of' prices and supplies;
(g)  assisting in selection of and directing auxiliary specialized
services (soil mechanics, etc.);
(h)  assisting in selection of and consulting with outside specialists
when appropriate;



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
(i) upon completion of the works, furnishing of record drawings
of the project "as built," and assembling catalogues, operation
manuals and written guarantees required of contractors
and equipment and machinery/electrical suppliers for each
project;
(j) supervising the running-in and adjustment of machinery/electrical
equipment and preparing "punch lists";
(k) final inspection and submitting acceptance documents; and
(1) furnishing several on-site personnel for 12 months after
acceptance (warranty period).
D. Staffing
6.        The engineering consultants would provide a staff in Argentina
composed of Argentine and, if necessary, expatriate personnel. Argentine
consultant firms would provide expatriate personnel through an association
with an expatriate firm for those positions for which no qualified Argentine
personnel are available. All technical personnel would have had previous
experience in silo construction, and the expatriate staff members would have
done previous overseas work. The nomination of key personnel of the consultants,
including head of design and contract specialists, chief civil engineer, at
least one silo civil engineer, and mechanical and electrical engineers, would
be subject to the approval by the Grain Board. The estimated staffing require-
ments are as follows:
(a) Design and Documents
- Silo Facilities Design Personnel and Contract Specialists.
To perform the necessary design work and to prepare documents
(estimated time required: one year).
(b) Field Staff
-  Chief Civil Engineer.  An engineer with previous overseas
experience, particularly in contract administration; to be
stationed for duration of the project (estimated time required:
four years).
-  Silo Civil Engineers.  One engineer for each contractor;
to start work from the time civil contractor is awarded
contract until acceptance (estimated time required: two years).
-  Site Inspectors.  Chief inspector with two general assistant
inspectors; one or two site inspectors per construction site;
to start work from the time the civil works contractor begins
mobilization until acceptance (estimated time required: two
years).



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
- One Mechanical Engineer. To work during installation and
testing of machinery (estimated time required: one year).
- One Electrical Engineer. To work during installation and
testing of electrical equipment (estimated time required:
one year).
- One Accountant. To maintain project accounts (estimated
time required: four years).
- Short-term Experts. One for roads (estimated time required:
six months); and one for rail (estimated time required: six
months).
- Auxiliary Personnel. Three secretaries (one for four
years, two for two years); four drivers (one for four
years, three for two years); and three messengers (one
for four years, two for two years).
The consultant would provide his own offices, housing, and vehicles.
E. General Consultants
7.        In addition to engineering consultants, the Project Executing Unit
would be technically supported by three or four general consultants hired from
time to time as necessary to assist in carrying out the following tasks:
(a)  prepare technical guidelines for silo designs, bidding and
contracting procedures, and construction supervision;
(b)  assist in the selection and contracting of firms for
engineering consulting services for individual silo projects
or groups of projects;
(c)  review, evaluate and comment on the designs, bid documents
and contracting procedures prepared (proposed) by the engineering
consultants;
(d)  coordinate the work of the engineering consultants and supervise
their performance during all phases of their work;
(e)  assist in the resolution of any technical problems or conflicts
arising in the course of execution of engineering and contracting
work;
(f)  review and periodically report on the progress of the work; and
(g)  prepare and periodically update the overall budget for engineering
and construction expenditures under the project.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
F. Engineering and General Consulting Cost Estimate
8.        The cost of engineering and general consulting services is based on
an estimate of about 5% of the total silo work. About 40%, or US$3.3 million,
is estimated to be the foreign exchange component of the services, while 60%,
or US$4.8 million, is estimated to be the local currency component without
price contingencies.
January 19, 1978



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for an Inspection and Supervision System
at Level of Primary Elevators
A. Introduction
1.        The primary (country) grain elevator system in Argentina is a
heterogeneous mixture of type, storage capacity, efficiency and ownership of
facilities. The system has developed over the years without any apparent
pattern or overall plan but seems to reflect changes in the profitability of
grain handling and storage on the one hand and of frequent Government policy
changes on the other. The system is composed of three separate and distinct
groups of facilities:
(a) those owned and operated by local cooperative associations;
(b) those owned and operated by local independent merchants; and
(c) those owned and operated by the Grain Board.
2.        Grain Board facilities receive grain from producers under price
support or from cooperatives and merchants for storage and there is a certain
degree of uniformity in tariffs, operations and services offered. However,
those facilities owned and operated by cooperatives or grain merchants operate
quite independently on the basis of their own managerial decisions. There is
no standardization of design, storage capacity, equipment, quality of service
provided, schedule of charges applied for receiving, conditioning and storage
of grain, or conditions under which grain will be accepted from producers.
There is a need to establish an effective central regulatory system to
standardize operating procedures in all primary facilities to protect the
interest of producers who must utilize such facilities and reduce overall
marketing margins.
B. Problem Areas
3.        The Grain Board has wide powers under the grain law to control and
regulate the trade in grain, both for internal and export operations. At
present this authority is not being used effectively in regard to primary
marketing operations, chiefly because the Grain Board has been the sole pur-
chaser of grains during various periods, the most recent being 1974-76. It is
difficult to establish a supervisory and regulatory system over facilities
already in existence and operating, and for that reason it is recommended
that the procedures outlined in the following paragraphs be implemented
immediately with the commencement of operations of the project silos and be
extended to all facilities as rapidly as trained and experienced personnel
become available.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Licensing and Bonding
4.        Country merchants are starting purchasing operations in areas of
expanding production with inadequate facilities--i.e., where land is being
converted from livestock to grain production. In some instances grain is
simply put through a portable drier and then stored on the ground. Producers
are rarely, if ever, paid for the grain at time of delivery. Normally they
must wait until the merchant has received reimbursement from the exporter
or domestic processer to whom he resells. For the protection of producers,
the Grain Board should enforce and supervise a system of licensing each
facility before operations commence and require the operator to be bonded in
an amount sufficient to provide financial liability for all grain which may
from time to time be in his care and which is not the property of the operator.
The terms of the license should require minimum conditioning and storage
facilities and strict adherence to regulations prescribed by the Grain Board
for the operation of the facility and trade in grains.
Inspection of Scales
5.        All primary facilities operate their own weigh scales on which total
volume of receipts from producers is based. Such scales are subject to ins-
pection (for accuracy) by the Grain Board, but there is little evidence that
this form of supervision is being carried out. On the contrary, reports of
short-weighing of receipts from producers were common in discussions the
appraisal mission had with individuals in the production area. The Grain
Board therefore should establish, as quickly as possible, an inspection team
to carry out routine checks for scale accuracy in all licensed grain handling
facilities.
Moisture Determination
6.        Much of the grain harvest in Argentina is taken off in a high
moisture condition. This is particularly true for sorghum, corn and some
oilseeds, and particularly in areas of conversion from livestock to grain
where harvest equipment is hired from custom operators who will not wait for
crops to dry completely in the field. As a result a very large percentage
of the grain must be dried immediately to avoid deterioration and all local
grain merchants and cooperatives have drying equipment. Indeed, in many
cases, drying is the most profitable segment of their operation. The Grain
Board's technical offices will provide moisture determinations on samples
submitted to them, but this requires immediate analysis when the sample is
taken, which is not always feasible, so moisture content is usually deter-
mined by the merchant, especially in the case of corn.
7.        There is no standardization of procedures, and there is opportunity
for widespread abuse by establishing moisture levels too high. The producer
loses in two ways:
(a) he is charged a fee for drying based on the number of
percentage points that moisture content has to be
reduced; and



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
(b) the total volume (weight) of grain is reduced by a
percentage equal to the stated reduction in moisture
content. There is no check on actual reduction in
moisture content.
To ensure that the producer is adequately protected in moisture determination
procedures, the Grain Board should require, as a condition of license, that
each operator install an approved moisture meter to take accurate readings at
time of delivery. The meters should be checked and calibrated periodically by
the Grain Board inspectors. Checks should also be run on moisture content as
determined at time of delivery against the samples submitted to the Grain
Board's technical offices for analysis.
Certificates of Deposit (Warehouse Receipts)
8.        It appears to be normal procedure in Argentina for producers and
country merchants, including cooperatives, to enter into a purchase and sale
agreement at harvest time, and for deliveries to be made to the merchant's
facilities under this agreement from time to time as harvest proceeds. Pay-
ment is not made until after deliveries are completed, and the merchant has
resold the grain and been paid for it. Advances are sometimes given, but at
relatively high rates of interest. It is not clear who bears the risk of
deterioration or loss during this period from delivery to final payments, and
there is a need for specific documentation in this respect. The following
procedure is suggested.
9.        The Grain Board issues "Certificates of Deposit" covering grain
taken into its facilities for storage, and these documents are a legal under-
taking to return, on demand, a comparable volume of grain of the same grade
and quality. A similar form of documentation should be introduced in the
private sector with the operation of the project silos. Two basic certificates
are required:
(a) a "Certificate of Deposit" covering each parcel of grain
taken into the facility for storage purposes, and which is
not the property of the operator; and
(b) a "Purchase Certificate" or "Cash Ticket" covering each
parcel of grain taken into the facility for purchase by
the operator, which would be a legal liability to pay to
the producer an amount of money shown on the Certificate
in settlement of the volume of grain purchased.
In both instances the grade of grain, total volume (weight) and moisture
content would be shown in the Certificate. Ultimately, this same form of
documentation should be a requirement in all facilities in the private
sector.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Maintenance of Stock Records and Periodic Audit
10.       The terms of the operating license of the project silos should
require that the operator maintain complete records of all receipts of grain
(copies of Certificates of Deposit and Purchase Certificates) and all out-
ward shipment by railway car or truck. These records should be available
for inspection from time to time by Grain Board inspectors to compare total
receipts against total shipments and stocks-in-store. At least once a year
there should be a physical weigh-over of stocks in store as part of the
audit, to determine overages or shortages in stocks.
11.       The Grain Board should establish a "tolerance" for weight losses
in private sector facilities to cover normal "shrinkage" and loss in handling,
and this tolerance should be taken into account in determining physical over-
ages or shortages. At the present time the Grain Board allows a tolerance of
0.3% of total volume received in its own port silos.
12.       Where the physical weigh-over audit indicates overages (surpluses)
of grain relative to total purchases vs. shipments and stocks, taking into
account the established "tolerance," such surpluses would be turned over to
the Grain Board for disposal and sale (or the equivalent in funds at its
commercial value) and the revenue accruing therefrom would be utilized by the
Grain Board to offset field inspection costs.
13.       Where a shortage in stocks is indicated by the physical audit, the
loss would be incurred by the silo operator, or, if the shortage concerned
stocks held for storage for the account of an exporter or producer, the
operator would be required to pay to the owner of the grain an equivalent
market value or the market price at time of receiving the grain, whichever is
higher.
Fumigation Requirements
14.       All grain received at primary facilities is subject to charges for
fumigation where the operator finds evidence of infestation. Similarly, grain
arriving at port silos is inspected for infestation, and segregated if
necessary for specific fumigation. In addition, all grain received at port
silos is fumigated with malathion on the receiving belts as a preventive
sanitation measure. Because similar sanitation is not carried out at primary
facilities, Grain Board inspectors should check bins on a routine basis on
each visit to determine if infestation is present, and if so, to require
corrective action before significant losses occur or before the problem is
transferred to port facilities. Where infestation is found, Grain Board
inspectors should have authority to order fumigation of a prescribed type to
correct the situation, and, in severe cases, to close the facilities for both
receiving and shipping grain until the condition has been cleared up to the
inspector's satisfaction. Costs involved in such sanitary procedures should
be for the account of the operator.
Primary Elevator Tariffs
15.       The Grain Board has a schedule of tariffs applicable to its own
primary facilities, and covering such costs as receiving, weighing and ele-
vation, storage, fumigation, drying, and shipping out. To some degree this



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
schedule is followed by local merchants and cooperatives, particularly
within the immediate area of Grain Board silo locations. There does appear
to be a very large degree of discretion, however, on the part of most
operators of primary facilities, in fixing the specific charges they demand
for receiving and conditioning grain. Additionally, some operators establish
limitations under which they will accept grain into their facilities--i.e.,
for immediate sale only, not for storage and conditioning--and these limita-
tions can severely restrict a producer's marketing flexibility where the
shortage of storage facilities is most acute.
16.       The Grain Board should undertake a study to determine the
desirability of establishing maximum tariff charges for all elevator services
in the primary sector, and the level of such charges to produce viable
operations for efficient units, without undue costs to the users of the
facilities. They should also study the desirability of establishing and
supervising the terms and conditions under which grain is taken into "public"
elevator facilities--i.e., the right of the public to use such facilities for
the storage of grain or for its conditioning and subsequent sale to the
operator or other buyer.
C. Requirements to Set Up Inspection and Supervision System
17.       All of the above problem areas suggest the need for much expanded
supervision and inspection activities on the part of the Grain Board as the
regulatory body under a free market economy for grain. The problem is
primarily one of personnel--the employment and training of an adequate number
of inspectors to carry out an effective supervisory operation. The require-
ment can be broken down into two phases:
(a) selection and training of a Director and Deputy Director of
Country Silo operations; and
(b) selection and training of a field staff of inspectors of
about 10 to 12 individuals to be assigned specific areas
of operations, with headquarters at designated technical
offices. Of the field staff, two would be chosen as
supervisory personnel after course completion, with their
territories divided roughly on the basis of northern and
southern halves of the production area.
18.       The objectives of the proposed training program would be:
(a) for the Director and Deputy Director:
(i) to select two individuals, preferrably from the Grain
Board's staff in existing delegations or from senior
head-office employees, with several years' experience
in the grain trade in Argentina, its structure and
organization; with a good knowledge of Argentine grain
grading and quality control and with a basic knowledge
of the construction and operation of grain handling
facilities;



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
(ii) to have these individuals perform a detailed study of
regulation, supervision and inspection of primary grain
handling facilities in major exporting countries--
principally the United States, Canada and Australia--
and to thoroughly familiarize themselves with Govern-
ment control and regulation of primary facilities in
these countries (approximately three to four months);
(iii) to report to the Grain Board their recommendations
for primary elevator regulation, supervision and
inspection which would best standardize the Argentine
grain trade to give effective and economic service
to the producer and the industry as a whole;
(iv) to draw up regulations to implement Grain Board policy
arising out of the above recommendations which would be
instituted *n project silos;
(v) to draw up and supervise a course of study for inspectors
which would give detailed instruction in the following
fields:
(1) grading and quality control for Argentine grains;
(2) basic silo construction and operation;
(3) problems of grain infestation, detection and most
effective means of control;
(4) grain weighing: construction, maintenance and
calibration of scales;
(5) operation, use and calibration of moisture
meters;
(6) basic audit procedures for grain documentation,
checking of receiving and shipping documents,
stock statements, and silo operator's application
of approved charges for conditioning grain;
(7) crop forecasting and reporting;
(8) familiarization with Grain Board authority,
objectives and operations, and the use of all
reporting forms and procedures affecting primary
elevators; and
(9) orientation lectures in grain marketing: opera-
tion of the grain exchanges (Bolsas) in the major
port areas; pricing of grain for country purchases;
futures market operation; export pricing; ocean
vessel chartering; costs involved in moving grain
from "track" to FOB vessel;



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
(vi) to draft appropriate forms for inspection and reporting
by the field staff and by primary elevator operators as
may be required from time to time by the Grain Board; and
(vii) to establish territories of responsibility for the members
of the staff and to direct their operations once field
work has commenced.
(b) for Field Inspectors:
(i) To select a group oft individuals, probably with an agri-
cultural background and a minimum educational equivalent
of senior matriculation, to undertake a course of study
of approximately three months' duration dealing with the
various subjects outlined in subparagraph (v) above.
(ii) To train these individuals to assume supervisory and
inspection duties with respect to the regulation of
primary elevator facilities in a specific area of
operation as required by the Grain Board after the
completion of their course of instruction.
D. Manpower, Facilities and Cost Estimates
19.       The proposed training program would require 24 man-months of study,
course preparation and instruction for the Director and Deputy Director of
the Country Silo Inspection and Supervision Branch. It is proposed that the
salary and travelling expenses of these two individuals be included in the
cost of the proposed training program during the estimated one-year period
before the Branch becomes fully operative. It is assumed that most of the
instructional personnel for the training course would come from the Grain
Board's own staff, and that all course costs would be local currency expendi-
tures. Allowance is made for travel expenses of course instructors and Grain
Board staff and for local outside experts in particular disciplines related to
the project. Finally, allowance is made for salary and expenses of course
participants during the instructional period until they are assigned terri-
tories and are taken "on-strength" as a Grain Board employee. See Table 1 for
details.
January 19, 1978



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Country Silo Supervision and Inspection Officers - Training Course
Item                           Unit                 Unit Cost   Foreign Exchange   Local Cost   Total
------------------ (US$) ------------------
Director and Deputy Director:
Salaries                        24 man-months              1,000                 -           24,000    24,000
Expenses                        2 x 4 months overseas    1,800             14,400                 -    14,400
Air Fare                        4 round trips              2,000             2,000            6,000      8,000
Outside Instructors:
Fees                            lump sum                   5,000                 -            5,000      5,000
Travel Expenses                 lump sum                   3,000                 -            3,000      3,000
Steaff instructors:
Travel Expenses                 lump sum                   3,000                 -            3,000      3,000
Participants:
Salaries                        12 x 4 man-months            500                 -           24,000    24,000
Expenses                        12 x 4 months                900                 -           43,200    43,200
Miscellaneous Travel            lump sum                   6,000                 -            6,000      6,000
SupPorting Staff:
Two Secretaries                 16 man-months                300                 -            4,800      4,800
Total Base Cost:                                              16,400           119,000   135,400      H @
(D X
July 29, 1977



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Improved Grain Inventory Control System
A. Introduction
1.        For the crop years 1973/74 through 1975/76, the Grain Board had been
the sole buyer of grain from producers under various guaranteed price programs.
The grain so acquired was then merchandized in the domestic and export markets
either directly by the Grain Board, or through the established export trade.
In any event, the Grain Board, being the initial purchaser in the country, had
inventory records of their stocks, by grain and by location, and could call
these forward as required to meet sales commitments.
2.        With the change in Government in March 1976, some basic changes in
policy took place, which had a marked impact on the structure of the grain
industry in Argentina. The grain trade was liberalized, with the Grain Board
becoming simply a buyer of last resort under price support programs. Country
purchases became the responsibility of local merchants who bought for their
own account and resold to exporters and processors, or of cooperatives who
took in grain from their members for conditioning and storage until it could
be sold domestically or into export markets. The Grain Board, however, re-
tained control of the operation of all port silos and in this capacity had to
assume some responsibility to assure that adequate stocks were available to
load vessels as they came in to pick up export cargoes.
3.        One of the effect of these changes was a lack of knowledge of
existing stocks, by position, to service export contracts and disruption of
port and transportation facilities due to the efforts of exporters individually
to concentrate their country purchases in port silos so they would be avail-
able as required.
B. Problem Areas
4.        Under the liberalization of the trade, there was suddenly a group
of exporters actively engaged in marketing Argentine grains, and each, indi-
vidually, was competing for the use of limited transportation and port storage
facilities without any coordination of activities. This gave rise to a number
of severe problems for the industry, the main difficulties being in the
general areas of (a) rail and truck transportation; (b) forward programming
of export shipments--port utilization; and (c) stock records by grain and
position.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
5.        These problems are related essentially to inventory control and
require correlation by a central authority. The Grain Board has assumed
this responsibility to some degree because of its role in port operation.
As a result, some of the problems have been considerably relieved, but
others still require solution. A description and recommendations follow.
Grain Transportation - Truck Movement
6.        Exporters who had bought grain in the country from merchants and
cooperatives to apply against overseas sales were anxious to move that
grain to port position in ample time to have it available in-store to
load vessels as required. The country merchants were equally anxious to
move the grain out of their facilities, particularly at harvest time, so
that additional volumes of grain could be taken in for conditioning and
storage or sale. Also, in the early months of trade liberalization, country
merchants were paid only for the grain sold to exporters after it had been
received at the ports. They therefore shipped it out as rapidly as possible.
Accordingly, each merchant ordered either rail or truck transport, or both,
to move grain forward. The result was congestion of transport facilities,
with long lines of waiting trucks and railway cars at port silos, in excess
of a silo's ability to receive grain. The grain which was taken in was not
necessarily the kind and grade required to meet the needs of the ships at the
grain ports, however, and this, in turn, resulted in protracted delays in out-
ward loading. Also, the combination of immobilized transport facilities and
delayed vessel loading was costly to the economy as a whole.
7.        To alleviate this particular group of problems, the Grain Board in-
tervened as a "coordinator" and took the following actions:
(a) To rationalize use of port silos, it instituted measures
whereby only grain that was required to meet nearby vessel
loading was taken into the facility. This was achieved by
imposing a system of punitive storage changes under which
storage rates increased dramatically the longer the grain
remained in port silo storage and became prohibitive after
60 days. 1/
1/   Port silo storage charges as of May 1977 for wheat, corn, sorghum:
First 20 days                        230 pesos/m ton
For   30 days                        403 pesos/m ton
For   40 days                        691 pesos/m ton
For   50 days                      1,031 pesos/m ton
For   60 days                      1,440 pesos/m ton
Over  60 days                        430 pesos/m ton/day
Storage charges for oats and barley, 20% more than above.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
(b) Exporters were required, by Grain Board Resolution No. 1550/
76, to submit to the Board weekly declarations of their
country purchases, by grain, by volume, by port area to which
it was to be delivered, and the delivery period required to
meet vessel arrival. At the same time, by Grain Board
Resolution No. 1551/76, exporters were required to make a
declaration, under oath, of their export sales, showing
among other things, type of grain, tonnage, and shipping
period. Additionally, exporters were required to advise
the Grain Board approximately 10 days before the beginning
of each month and 10 days prior to the middle of each month,
of the ocean vessels which would be arriving at each port
to pick up grain durLng the succeeding two-week period, i.e.,
1st to 15th of the month, or 16th to 30th of the month.
(c)  Having this information of country purchases, export sales
and vessel arrivals, the Grain Board was then in a position
to coordinate country movement with port need. This coor-
dination is not yet being exercised with respect to rail
movement, although it is being achieved with respect to
truck movement in the following manner: after having deter-
mined a "probable" volume of rail movement of each grain
to each port area for the two-week period under review, the
Grain Board calculates the remaining balances required to be
moved to port silos by truck to fulfill the projected shipping
programs on the basis of known vessel arrivals. This volume of
grain is then apportioned between the various exporters, by
type of grain and port area, on the basis of a formula which
takes into consideration:
(i) their respective volumes of country purchases;
(ii) their respective volumes of vessel nominations for the
period under review; and
(iii) an adjustment for stocks which an individual exporter
may have in store in the port silo, or to replace an
exporter's stock which may have been utilized by the
Grain Board in Loading an earlier vessel.
(d) Exporters are given "quotas" according to the formula
allocation to move specific volumes of designated grains
by truck during the period in question. The quotas are
turned over to the country merchant from whom the
exporter has made purchases and he, in turn, contracts
for the trucks and transports the grain. The daily move-
ment is limited to the receiving capacity of the silos, and
only the kind of graLn required, in the volume required, is
forwarded during the two-week period.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Grain Transportation - Rail Movement
8.        As previously noted the Grain Board transport office determines a
"probable" volume of grain to be moved by rail for each successive two-week
planning period. This figure can only be approximate in terms of volume and
cannot be specific in terms of type of grain because country merchants are
free to order railway cars for shipment to port silos as long as they have
a sales contract with an exporter. No quotas are required and there is no
limitation on the number of cars which may be ordered as long as an equivalent
volume of sales contracts exists. Nevertheless, this estimate of rail move-
ment is used to determine the volume of truck movement which will be required
every two weeks and upon which truck shipment quotas are allocated to exporters.
The system appears too loose to permit efficient inventory control or to
maximize the use of the most efficient means of transportation from country
positions to port.
9.        The system has sometimes resulted in rail shipments to port silos
beyond the capacity of the silos to receive rail cars, and loaded cars have
been immobilized in port yards awaiting unloading for 20 to 30 days, thereby
providing "free" storage to country merchants and exporters alike. It appears
also that the railways supply cars as quickly as possible to fill country
orders, but in no particular pattern. Also they are not necessarily supplied
in the order in which requests have been received. Priority is given to those
facilities which order complete trains and which are capable of loading them
in 10 to 12 hours. Other priorities are established from time to time by
the Grain Board to reflect immediate need for a particular type of grain, so
only facilities having that grain available for shipment are serviced. Grain
needed for import positions may be "lost in the stream," or unneeded grain may
congest the system.
10.       A "Means Committee," composed of Grain Board and Railway officials,
meets every fortnight to consider total tonnages of grain needed at each
port during the ensuing two-week period to meet vessel requirements. The
Committee seems to be largely a liaison group, without decision-making autho-
rity, but it does try to estimate the total tonnage of grain which will be
moved by the railroads over the period under review. To make the operation
more responsive to need and to increase the efficiency of utilization of
existing railroad rolling stock, it is recommended that the Grain Board
consider the following actions:
(a) The "Means Committee" should be formalized to the extent that
firm car supply commitments can be given by the railways for
specific periods of time. Since the Grain Board knows, with
some degree of precision, the requirements for each type of
grain, by port, over each successive two-week period (with a
10-day lead time), a high-level liaison with the railway
officials should be worked out to allow their representatives
to give a specific car allocation by port, for the corresponding



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
period. Quotas for rail movement, by grain, by port could
then be worked out on the same basis as is now done for
truck movement and supplied to the exporters who would be
responsible for ordering their supplies through the country
merchants with whom they have contracts. Orders for railway
cars would be placed only under such established quotas.
(b) Car supply orders should designate the specific grain to be
shipped under a quota. Priorities in terms of type of grain
could be established by the Grain Board from time to time to
compensate for any variation in programmed vessel arrivals,
and the railways would supply cars first to those merchants
with orders for the grain in top priority.
(c) As an interim step to improve silo unload performance, rail-
ways, through the "Means Committee," should be encouraged to
make up trains consisting of one type of grain car only--
hoppers, regular boxcars, or combinations--to facilitate
unloading. To the extent it is feasible to do so, only
cars containing the same type of grain should be supplied to
each unloading track at each "spout" to maximize the use of
conveyer equipment from the receiving hoppers to storage bins.
(d) Railways should maintain loaded cars to the equivalent of
approximately three days' silo unloading capacity on silo
trackage (yard) at all times. In the event this volume
builds up due to elevator inability to accept grain in
accordance with the agreed program movements, the railway
would reduce its commitment accordingly in succeeding
weeks until unload performance met targeted levels.
11.       The essence of these suggestions is that both rail and truck move-
ment of grain would be coordinated by the Grain Board for each succeeding two-
week period to make maximum use of the most economic (cheapest) method and
to maintain all orders for movement from the country on a current basis to
avoid accumulation of unwanted grain creating bottlenecks in silo operation
or the use of scarce railway rolling stock for "free" storage purposes.
Port Utilization
12.       One of the major problems of inventory control faced by the Grain
Board in its efforts to have stocks of grain where they are needed when they
are needed arises from the fact that several exporters are competing for the
use of the same facilities during the same time span without any correlation
of their activities or without reciprocal knowledge of the extent to which
facilities are committed. All exporters are entering into sales contracts
and chartering vessels involving the use of a specific port for a specific
time period, and there is a real danger that the facilities of the port may



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
be overcommitted for particular periods, especially immediately following
harvest. Overcommitment of this type leads to costly delays in loading ocean
vessels, higher general ocean freight rates for the country, and charter-party
terms which are restrictive and expensive. It seems desirable to limit this
potential as much as possible and the mechanics for doing so already exist.
13.       Since the Grain Board operates all port silos, it is fully informed
on the practical operating capacities of each elevator under optimum and under
"'normal" conditions of grain movement. Statistics are available on the maxi-
mum monthly throughput of each elevator on which a judgment of maximum target
performance might be based. Exporters are already required, under Grain Board
Resolution No. 1551/76, as stated earlier, to report, within one working day,
all export sales, detailing, inter alia, loading port, tonnage and contract
loading period. It is suggested that the Grain Board consider establishing
monthly maximum throughput targets for each port and accepting sales declara-
tions only up to that level to preclude unnecessary over-booking of port
facilities. Adequate notification of port bookings would have to be given
exporters to avoid contractual commitments which could not be registered and
therefore could not be carried out.
14.       The benefits from such a program, compared to the existing practice,
are numerous:
(a) It would significantly reduce demurrage charges, which are
presently implicit in many offers of grain from Argentina.
(b) It should permit a more realistic loading rate to be included
in a vessel charter-party (low rates are now being used, at
least in part, to extend the loading period) and thereby have
a favorable impact on freight rates from the area.
(c) It would result in earlier registration of export sales
contracts to avoid the danger of having a declaration of
sale rejected, thereby giving the Grain Board a clearer
picture of total sales commitment.
(d) It would facilitate a more orderly movement of grain to port
areas, using a least-cost mode of transportation.
(e) It would tend to have the effect of spreading out Argentine
export operations, a desirable development to provide con-
tinuity of service to overseas customers.
Maintenance of Stock Records
15.       At present, there is no comprehensive statistical information on
the grain trade in Argentina which can give an overall picture of the state



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
of the industry at a particular point in time. Such data, however, are essen-
tial for proper planning of transportation needs, for the maintenance of ade-
quate supplies for domestic consumption, and for making judgments and decisions
on national policy problems related to an industry which is one of the major
foreign exchange earners for the country. A statistical and inventory system
has been established by the Grain Board which meets the need insofar as the
Board's direct involvement in the operation of port silos is concerned, but
general statistics with regard to overall stocks, grain movement, and domestic
utilization are inadequate, making inventory control extremely difficult.
16.       The need for improvement may be broken down into four separate
categories: (a) total country supplies--acreage, yield, production and
quality of new crop; (b) total marketings to primary facilities, stocks and
outward shipments; (c) port movement--receipts, shipments, stocks; and
(d) domestic processors' receipts, utilization, and stocks. These categories
are further explained in the following paragraphs.
17.       Total Supply.  The Grain Board technical offices submit periodic
crop reports and estimates of production covering the area which they serve.
These reports are integrated with similar surveys received by the Department
of Agriculture and Livestock and updated periodically. There seems to be an
opportunity to make this service more timely and perhaps more accurate by
including crop reporting and production estimation as specific duties of the
proposed team of primary elevator inspectors (see Annex 2).
18.       Primary Grain Movement.  At the present time there is no reporting
of grain movement through primary facilities in the private sector. Operators
submit a stock statement to the Grain Board once a month, but it has historical
interest only since collection, consolidation and tabulation result in a pub-
lication delay of approximately six weeks. It is suggested that all primary
facilities be required to report weekly:
(a) total receipts during the preceding week, by grain and
grade;
(b) total shipments during the weeks by rail and truck and by
destination (named port or domestic processor); and
(c) total stocks in store by grain and grade at the end of the
reporting period.
These reports should be delivered to the area technical office (along with the
grain samples regularly being submitted for analysis) for consolidation and
telex transfer to the head offiLce of the Grain Board. It is suggested that
this reporting can be instituted in the near future, and not later than the
commencement of field operations of the primary silo inspection staff.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
19.       Port Grain Movement.  The Grain Board has already established a
daily reporting system, by telex, covering the complete silo operations of
each port district, including subsidiary Grain Board installations. The
information includes daily receipts by type of grain, by rail or truck;
outward shipments by grain; stocks in store; vessels loading; vessels waiting;
and rail cars and trucks presenting for unloading and not completed. This
information is tabulated and displayed visually for operational use on a
port-by-port basis. The only additional statistic which would be helpful in
inventory control would be a daily tabulation of rail cars "on track" awaiting
unloading in each port area (yard) and similar statistics on trucks waiting.
Prompt action could then be taken to modify shipping programs by rail or
truck to ensure full utilization of the elevator facilities. The railway
district offices should also be encouraged to supply a daily tabulation of
cars loaded in the country during the past 24 hours, tabulated if possible by
type of grain and port destination. The progress of current shipping targets
could then be watched on a day-to-day basis and corrective actions taken as
necessary to meet port requirements.
20.       Domestic Processors.  These merchants should be required to submit
details of grain receipts, volume processed, and stocks in store on the same
basis as returns from country merchants. Such reports could be submitted
directly to the Grain Board head office or to district offices for transmis-
sion, whichever is most time efficient.
21.       All of the above statistical data should be compiled for publication
in the "Grain Board - Weekly Statistical Bulletin" now being published by the
Grain Board and made available to as wide a cross-section of the industry as
possible, including producers. The above measures to improve grain inventory
control are all within the authority and competence of the Grain Board, in
liaison with the railways. Some of the measures can be implemented in the
immediate future, while others will be delayed by constraints of personnel and
organization. It is hoped, however, that all reporting procedures will be
established and operational from the outset in project silos and extended to
other segments as rapidly as possible.
C. Manpower Equipment and Cost Estimates
22.       A study would be undertaken to determine which one of two alterna-
tive systems is best suited to the achievement of a necessary minimum level of
inventory information and control in the presently deficient areas. The two
candidate systems are:
(a) remote data entry terminals at each port, technical office
and project silo for both transmitting the required data to
the proposed Grain Board's central computer and assessing
all data, using the computer for calculations at each
facility; and



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
(b) a telex link between all Grain Board technical offices and
head office and between all project silos and Grain Board
head office to transmit the inventory information outlined
previously in this annex. The study should determine the
feasibility of tying such telex reports directly into the
proposed computer equipment in the Grain Board to facilitate
compilation, with a view to utilizing this procedure in
developing sophisticated and direct shipping order alloca-
tions for rail and truck shipments.
23.       The study should also investigate the practicability and desirabil-
ity of eventually extending such a network beyond the suggested facilities to
major primary elevators throughout the production area and determining
whether additional information on individual sales and prices could be use-
fully and reliably incorporated into the information flow. In any case, it
is assumed that a new computer would be required in the Grain Board head
office, using either system to cope with the increased data flow and for
statistical calculations resulting therefrom.
24.       Total base cost of the study requiring one man-year of consultants
plus the computer and terminals/telex would amount to US$517,000. It is
estimated that the foreign exchange component would be 67% of the total cost,
with 33% the local currency component (Table 1).
November 3, 1977



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Inventory Control Costs
Foreign       Local
Item                 Unit                   Unit Cost      Exchange    Component      Total
- ---------- (US$) ---------
Consultants      1 foreign - 6 months           5,000          30,000           -      30,000
1 domestic - 6 months          2,500              -       15,000      15,000
Expenses         2 air fare - 2                 2,000           4,000           -       4,000
living expenses - 6 months     2,000         12,000            -      12,000
- 6 months     1,000              -       6,000        6,000
Equipment        computer                     150,000         150,000           -     150,000
terminals - 50                 3,000        150,000            -     150,000
systems software                   -              -      150,000     150,000
Total Base Cost:                                        346,000     171,000     517,000
July 29, 1977
m M4
H LO



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Training of Silo Managers and
Supporting Staff for Project Silos
A. Introduction
1.        In order to successfully manage and operate project silos, each
person employed should possess experience and knowledge qualifying him to take
over his new job. However, it is expected that not all of the managers and
operational staff who will be appointed to each of the 20 silos will be fully
acquainted with silo operation. In order to provide the necessary require-
ments of training for personnel, a program, including theoretical as well as
practical training, should be organized. It is recommended that participation
of the appointed project silo staff in the training program be made mandatory
unless equivalent training and/or experience can be proven. Although the
Grain Board is going to lease out gradually the management and operation of
the silos, it is recommended that the training be organized within the Grain
Board. A training program would be headed by a full-time director assisted by
instructors specialized in selected subject matters and supplemented by Grain
Board staff in appropriate subjects.
2.        The training program should become operative at least one year prior
to the completion of the first silos. It is visualized that the training of
operative personnel and also of the Grain Board's own staff will be a conti-
nuing need and for this reason it is recommended that the training program be
established and considered as a permanent part of the Grain Board so that
continuous training of new personnel and retraining for existing staff can be
provided.
B. Implementation of Training Program
3.        The recommended training for the appointed personnel at project
silos should be divided into theoretical training at the Grain Board and
practical training at existing silos. The Grain Board should be responsible
for the following tasks:



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
(a) establishing the program, including developing the specialized
courses for each category of trainee, providing instructors for
both theoretical and on-the-job training, and arranging and
approving all schedules and courses for the trainees;
(b) assisting and advising the trainees in the writing of reports
and operating manuals required for each trainee after the
completion of the training at each on-the-job training
location and arranging for training at the various silos
and at other firms and agencies selected for practical train-
ing and providing frequent periodic consultation and checks
on the progress of the trainees; and
(c) providing the Grain Board with reports of each trainee's
progress and a final written evaluation of each trainee's
performance, which will accompany the trainee's theoretical
and on-the-job training records. Evaluation reports and
trainee records for each trainee should be submitted to the
Grain Board at the end of the training program.
C. Manpower and Cost Estimates
4.        The estimated budget for implementing the personnel training program
amounts to US$550,000 of which about 24% would be foreign exchange costs
(Table 1). The job description, the duties, and the description of the
training program for the trainee classification are given in detail in Working
Paper No. 4.
January 19, 1978



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Estimated Budget for Implementing the Training (Two-Year Period)
Local        Foreign           Total
-------------   (US$)
Salaries for Local Staff:
1 Director of Training Center      24 man-months of 4,000       76,000         20,000          96,000
1 Management Specialist            24 man-months of 2,500       50,000         10,000          60,000
1 Grain Grading Specialist          24 man-months of 2,500      50,000         10,000          60,000
1 Grain Accounting Specialist       24 man-months of 2,500      50,000         10,000          60,000
1 Mechanical Engineer              24 man-months of 2,500       50,000         10,000          60,000
1 Electrical Engineer               24 man-months of 2,500      50,000         10,000           60,000
Supporting Staff:
Technical Staff                     24 man-months of 1,000      24,000              -           24,000
Secretarial Staff                  24 man-months of 500         12,000              -          12,000
Supplies and Equipment                                            25,000         25,000          50,000
Traveling                                                         25,000         25,000           50,000
Subsistence Allowances Abroad        6 months (180 days of
US$100)            8,000         10,000          18,000
Total Base Cost:                                     420,000       130,000          550,000
July 29, 1977



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Bahia Blanca Pilot Dredging
1.        The proposed pilot dredging component at Bahia Blanca would be
coordinated with the National Transport Study being carried out by Government
as a part of the Fourth Highway Project. The objectives and scope of the
proposed component have been agreed in principle during a Bank mission to
Argentina in August 1977. Terms of reference for the required consulting
services have been prepared and cover the following:
Objectives
2.        The purpose of this assignment is to assist the Government in deter-
mining the technical and economic feasibility of deepening the Bahia Blanca
Channel to provide access for larger vessels in Argentina's international
bulk commodity trade. To this end, the consultants shall provide:
(a) an analysis of hydrographic and oceanographic conditions in
the port, access channel and bay of Bahia Blanca;
(b) an evaluation of alternative channel alignments and cross-
sections, taking into account (i) navigational requirements
and costs of prospective patterns of grain and other bulk
carrier traffic to and from Bahia Blanca; (ii) the capital
cost of channel improvements; and (iii) channel maintenance
costs;
(c) recommendations on the most effective and economical channel
design, with preliminary engineering and cost estimates for
navigational aids and channel construction;
(d) recommendations on the structure and level of user charges
that could be applied to the Bahia Blanca Channel; and
(e) recommendations for a continuing program of data collection
and analysis on hydraulic conditions in the bay of Bahia
Blanca.
Scope and Phasing of the Work
3.        The work shall be conducted in three consecutive phases (without
interruptions), covering the following scope:
Phase I   -    Initial Surveys:  this shall comprise the design
and installation of a survey tower with equipment;
complete hydrographic mapping of existing conditions



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
in the study area; analyses of prospective naviga-
tional requirements, oceanographic measurements and
sea bottom testing to define alternative channel
configurations; design of the pilot channels to be
dredged; preparation of contract documents and assis-
tance in contract award for pilot dredging; and
preparation of an Interim Report.
Phase II  -    Pilot Dredging, Analysis and Design:  this shall
comprise supervision of pilot dredging operations;
observation of dredged sections for a period of at
least six months; further oceanographic surveys and
study of alternatives for channel improvements;
preliminary engineering, economic and financial
analyses for the recommended navigation channel;
and preparation of a Draft Final Report.
Phase III -    Monitoring and Final Recommendations:  this shall
comprise observation of pilot channel sections for
an additional period of one year and related
oceanographic surveys; refinement of siltation
forecasts and of economic and financial analyses;
revision (if appropriate) of the navigation channel
design; recommendations for future data collection
and analysis on channel conditions; and preparation
of a Final Report.



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
4.         The estimated costs of the pilot dredging component are summarized
below.
Bahia Blanca Pilot Dredging
Cost Estimate Summary
(US$ '000)
Local      Foreign          Total
Currency     Exchange         Cost
Survey and Design Contract
Professional Services                         238         440            678
Equipment and Structures                      310         850          1,160
Sub-total                                 548        1,290          1,838
Dredging Contract
Dredging Costs                                375       1,125          1,500
Total Base Cost:                          923        2,415          3,338
Contingencies
Physical                                       77         145            222
Price                                          60         170            230
Sub-total                                 137          315            452
Component Total:                        1,060        2,730          3,790
January 25, 1978



ARGENTINA
Grain Storage Project
Construction and implemontation Schidule
1101n, 1978  Mey                                            mey                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~May 1161                           May I162              Ma.                        KW6  ~  i9a
_________________________ _  _197_ _79_7_ 1s                                19n  1i*              M 1910                    Im 1001   1                                       Ig 1     6192                                    112 li 13
.............. ..... Y_, 1                            .... Y. 2.... *----          -           ---Y",---- - --- 2  ................ Yr3.........           ........   - Y"r 4 ...... .........  ..... .......... y"r . ...... .....
Montd   I 12   .        .    .  a 73 8   9 110111 112113114 106. 1_7  I  19                                      27          30 31 32  33 34 35           37 38  39140  41 1421    44 4S         47        49      51 162 b3  54 i         La 7        a
Deign -and sp.cifloation.
Didk
Trlenion  and approval of  _onoractat
Amnrl of c__tracd
Final dm1gn
Civil work.la  ol"
Mechanical                                                                                                        ......... .l.i.......nF
Eiactrical ijettllment,             Phane I
Swinina-In and commissioning                                                                                                                                                                             A  'IV
Civil works                                                                                                                go 1111 Big 1    Il all o  i 51  aI l       U lolIII       I  I
Mechanical Instllmnt                                                                                                                                                                                     
S.iactrcl istallIMent              ph." 1
Punning-in and cnm.iaionig
Civil woks                                                                                                                                  so so so seoi    i    so go II III  I 1 to vI II  5II 
Mhkehncl installm-nt                                                                                                                                                                            =I                       
Electrichl installmet            J Mt5  Il
Penning-in end -cmissioningIVVAW  il
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                siml  all II   1 III II II If III        is5   555 I   5
Elsctrica instalment             J PIta. VW
Runoing-in and c      homm oning                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WA-A   AW
Civil w,ork.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FBIIlIII    55    55I   I    II
Eiactricei instelmeont           jPhase V
Reeving-in avd co,en,imioving)                                                                                                                                                                       .... ..  .                 177                           T         ,W
Supermision                                                                                                 I       E      .U                                                                                             *        E         E      E        E        E       E
World Sank-1 7658



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Network Flow Model Determining Storage Requirements
Background
1.        The Grain Board contracted with the Defense Ministry (Direccion
General de Investigacion y Desarrollo--DIGID) to develop a mathematical
model determining the number, type and location of additional grain
storage facilities that would be desirable from an economic point of view.
DIGID consultants, with some assistance from the FAO/CP preparation missions
(December 1975, December 1976, March 1977), accomplished the task by a
network flow formulation, but due to the difficulty of obtaining one of
the standard software packages for network analysis, they were obliged
to develop and program their own network model. While this model lacks
the sophistication--and thus efficiency in computer time--normally found
in software packages offered by the major suppliers in the US, which proves
to be somewhat of a handicap in terms of the size of network and level of
detail that can be encompassed, it is sufficiently efficient to be a valu-
able tool in determining general locations and capacities required for
storage. The model input data were then introduced to the standard network
model available on the Bank's Burroughs Computer System, and this provided
a more detailed evaluation of the project and additional sensitivity analyses.
Model Description
2.        The simplified objective of the network flow model is to minimize
the sum of all transport, storage, and deterioration costs, including various
cost penalties for port draft, export destination, and various waiting time.
This is equivalent to maximizing the net economic return for a given level of
grain production, demand and price.
3.        The network flow model is a special form of linear programming
(most widely used optimizing method with mathematical formulation). The
special structure of the network flow model allows the use of efficient
algorithms to obtain the optimal solution, thus, permitting large networks
to be analyzed at small cost and time.
4.        A network flow model consists of a number of points or "nodes,"
each potentially connected directly to each of the other nodes by a single
path or "arc." Unit cost is assigned to each arc as well as the limit on
the quantity going through each arc. The problem is formulated to find
how much flow would be allowed at each arc in order to minimize the total
cost to bring the commodity from sink to source. In the grain storage



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
application of this formulation, the source represents 35 grain producing
regions and the sink represents the markets (mostly ports for export). Each
node represents not only the potential site of storage but also the time of
the year; thus, each arc can represent the storage of grain over a period as
well as the movement of grain within a time period.
Specific Adaptation of the Model to the Project
5.        Parameters.  Those used in evaluating alternative project design
include:
- Production (as a Eunction of time).
- Internal consumption (as a function of time).
- Exports.
- Losses (qualitative and quantitative).
- Fixed and variable treatment costs.
- Fixed and variable storage costs (at all types of
facilities).
- Amortized construction costs (of both project and
non-project facilities).
- Transport costs (for each mode of transport).
- Fixed and variable loading costs (at farms, storage
facilities and ports).
- Fixed and variable unloading costs.
6.        Since it would not be feasible to consider each farm, mill, and silo
as a node in the model, the country was segregated into 35 regions. Each
region comprises a number of partidos with similar harvest times and crops,
and 44 specific potential locations were initially selected for project
facilities. Later, this was reduced to 27 to reduce the scope of the problem.
The 17 sites selected to be dropped were those that had not been chosen as a
plan for new facilities in any of the analysis so far completed. Eleven
ports, four of which were treated as being at the same location, were included
as nodes. Nine time periods were initially included but were later reduced to
five periods for computational purposes. The entire harvest period was
divided into four two-month periods and the non-harvest period was considered
as one four-month period.



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
7.        For each geographical region, the Department of Agriculture projected
production levels (by crop and time period), consumption, existing primary
storage capacity, industrial storage capacity and drying capacity for 1984/85.
Distances and the respective projected costs of transport over all feasible
arcs (and all applicable transport modes) were also determined. Tables 1 and
2 show input costs per m ton of grain used in the model for the following
parameters:
- Cost of loading (at the arc origin).
- Cost of waiting for loading.
- Cost of actual transportation.
- Cost of unloading (at the terminating node).
- Cost of waiting to unload.
- Losses in grain incurred during loading, transport
and unloading.
- Fixed storage costs at terminating node when node is
a new storage facility.
For storage arcs, the cost is simply the variable cost (per m ton per time
period) of storage. For deterioration arcs, the cost is the average cost per
m ton of grain that is expected to result from improper storage in a parti-
cular time period (thus particular grain type). Arcs representing export have
costs reflecting the differing desirabilities due to limited drafts of the
river at the various ports for grain export and the general export destinations.
8.        Network Adaptation.  The 35 regions contain the following nodes:
farms, existing primary storage and (potentially) new primary storage facili-
ties, 27 project silos, six major existing underground silos, and 11 ports.
All of these nodes are repeated over the five time periods and account for
essentially all of the network nodes. Each feasible arc between these nodes
is then assigned a cost based on the functional type of arc (e.g., specific
distances and transport system availability for transport arcs). Table 3
provides an overview of the model structure as it applies to this particular
problem and defines the nodes and arcs used to represent locations, times and
flows. Since the model is an adaptation of a standardized model, there are no
variable names that need to be defined; only the data serve to define this
project.
9.        Constraints.  Constraints are imposed on the maximum export value
at each port (Table 4) by time period. Existing storage facilities have only
variable costs assigned to them but are constrained in each region by the
amount of current storage in good condition (Table 5). Up to 5 million m tons
of additional private sector primary storage is allowed to be built through



- 70 -
ANNEX 7
1984/85, considered as full project development. When such storage is uti-
lized, fixed costs of storage are imposed. These costs represent a weighted
average of new storage and expansion of existing storage facilities. The
new "project facilities" are treated in much the same fashion except that the
lower unit costs reflect a different design concept. Also, for the project
silos, the area of influence (i.e., distance grain would be transported to
project silos) is limited to a radius of 100 km. Individual arcs were
also constrained so as not to exceed a turnover of 2.5 for any silo from
any single given source. No mechanism exists for constraining the net inflow
from arcs treated collectively and, consequently, adjustments were made to
all individual arcs to reflect the throughput.  A maximum of 10% of the wheat
production, in certain regions which are close to ports, was allowed to flow
directly from the farm to the underground storage facility nearest that port.
10.       In addition to the actual constraints, penalties were imposed at the
various ports based on the available ship draft and export destination. Also,
penalty costs were imposed at all ports during the periods of peak harvest to
account for the port congestion that has historically occurred. The normal
"mass balance" type constraints incorporated in all such network models also
were, of course, included. That is, for all facilities, the total flow into
the arc must equal the flow from the arc. Thus, it is assured that production
equals consumption plus export plus deterioration in all cases.
Model Output
11.       About 25 computer runs were made by the DIGID consultants and have
been briefly described in the FAO/CP mission notes of March 1977 (Annex 11),
and another 15 runs were made while the appraisal mission was in Argentina.
Considerable improvement was made on the network flow model at the Bank and
about 30 additional successful runs were made.
12.       The two baseline runs of interest are the situation represented
without project and with project at full development. The model output does
not, of course, represent a projection of true future behavior but rather
reflects the "optimum" economic situtation that can be achieved with the
available resources. The "without project" evaluation is thus an analysis of
the usage patterns of existing storage facilities, new facilities and trans-
port systems that would maximize the net economic benefit to the nation. No
attempt is made at this point to find a way to ensure that an individual
segment of the system will have the incentive to behave in a manner that
would maximize the net benefit to the country as a whole (the financial cost
analyses are directed to this issue).
13.       Without the project, the expansion of primary silo facilities was
limited to 5 million m tons by 1984/85. Grains subject to deterioration
due to lack of drying and storage are estimated at 896,000 m tons. With
the project, the Grain Board would construct 2 million m tons of storage and
drying capacity; under this case, it would be economically justified to expand
primary silo facilities by 4.7 million m tons, such facilities to receive all



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
grain without deterioration (Table 6). A breakdown of existing and new
primary facilities as well as their grain throughputs are shown for the
without project case in Table 7 and for the with project case in Table 8.
14.       The 20 silo locations were selected on the basis of earlier model
runs and adjusted by the Grain Board to reflect their experience. Table
9 shows the locations, the expected grain throughput and the composition
according to winter (wheat) and summer (corn, sorghum) grains. Project
silos of highest turnover would be located in General Pico, Pehuajo, Rivadavia
and Catrilo, clustered mostly around the western part of Buenos Aires province
and the eastern part of La Pampa province, while project silos of lowest
turnover would be located in Laboulaye (Cordoba), Firmat (Santa Fe) and Avia
Terai (Chaco) and these silos would hold grain for longer periods due to
smaller harvests, and port congestion and would, thus, not be expected to have
high turnover rates.
15.       Bahia Blanca port is the only port used to capacity throughout the
year, which reflects the deeper draft and larger ocean ships hauling grain.
Almost all the river ports reach their throughput ceilings at different times
of the year. In the without project case, about 23.2 million m tons are
exported in the peak period, February-March, and, in the with project case,
about 24.1 million m tons are exported over the same peak period (Table 10).
Sensitivity Analysis
16.       Under conditions of a 20% decrease in the production level, grain
throughput of the combined 20 project silos would decline about 20%, from 4.8 to
3.8 million m tons. If the outloading capacity of all ports were increased by
25%, there would only be a minor decrease of 5% in grain throughput of project
silos. If the project silos had no cost advantage in rail transport to port
facilities over the existing and new primary silos, then grain throughput of
project silos would decline by about 8%, to 4.4 million m tons.
November 3, 1977



- 72 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Data for Baseline Project Analysis
via Network Model - Transport Associated Costs
Existing       New                      klroJeiL           ._ 
To:          Primary     Primary    Subterranean        Silo    by TruLk  Dy  ...ai,.
(Costs are in units of August 1976 pesos!' per ton)
From:
Farm-/:
Loading                0                            0            0       -
Transport           2.64/km      2.64/km        2.64/km      2.64/km    -
Delays                 0            0             86            14        -         -
Unloading             95          291            166           241       -          -
Losses                72           72              72           72       -          -
Existing Primary:
Loading               80            -             80           80       80         80
Transport           2.64/km         -           2.64/km      2.64/km    2.64/km   1.57/km
Delays                43            -            129            57     386        126
Unloading             95            -            166          241      260        260
Losses                72            -             72            72      72         72
New Primary:
Loading                -            -             286         286      286        286
Transport              -            -           2.64/km      2.64/km    2.64/km   1.57/km
Delays                 -            -            129           57      386        126
Unloading              -            -            166          241      260        260
Losses                 -            -             72           72       72         72
Subterranean:
Loading                -            -              -            -      268        268
Transport              -            -               -            -       -          -
Delays                 -            -              -            -      120        120
Unloading              -            -              -            -      260        260
Losses                 -            -              -            -       72         72
Project Silo:
Loading                -            -              -            -        -        194
Transport              -            -              -            -        -          1.23/km
Delays                 -            -              -             -       -          0
Unloading              -            -              -            -                  64
Losses                 -            -              -            -        -         72
1/ Exchange rate of $a 240 = US$1.
2/ For summer grain, an additional $a 641/ton for drying is included.
September 8, 1977



- 73 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Data for Baseline Project Analysis
via Network Model - Storage Costs
Annual Amortized                 Fixed Costs      Variable
Fixed Cost.!/ of     Assumed      per m ton   Costs of Storage
Storage Component  Throughput  Throughput        (per m ton
per Facility       of Grain    of Grain        Per month)
(million of pesos)  /('000 m ton)-------- (pesos)A7 ----------
On-farm                       0                -            0               2
Existing Primary              0                -            0              40
New Primary                  13.5             15          900              40
Subterranean                  0                -            0             100
Project Silo               120                25          500              20
1/  Fixed cost includes debt costs, depreciation and fixed operating costs
related to storage function only. For existing facilities, such costs
are considered sunk costs.
2/  Assumed silo of 6,000-mr-ton capacity as average (60% add-ons, 40% new
sites).
3/  In August 1976 prices, at an exchange rate of US$1.00 = $a 240.
November 3, 1977



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
A Brief Description of the Network Adaptation Utilized in this Study
Showing Number of Regions and Potential Project Facilities and Cor-
responding Number of Nodes and Arcs in System.
Arcs to
No. of Regions  No. of  Storage  Exist.  New    Subter-                To
or Facilities   Nodes    Arcs    Prim.   Prim.  ranean   Project  Ports  Exports
Farm                      35          105        35     122      122     15         86        -        -
Existing Primary          35          175       175     100        -      70       750      470        -
New Primary               35I/        175       175       -        -      -        750      470        -
Subterranean               6           30        30       -        -      -          -       35       -
Project                   271/        135       135       -        -      -          _      595        -
Port                       8           40        40       -        -      -          -        -       40
Export                     8           40         -       -        -      -                           -
1/  Number of possible locations for these facilities as seen by network flow model.
November 3, 1977
m x



- 75 -
ANNEX 7
Table 4
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Network Flow Model Assumption for Maximum Grain
Throughput Limits for Major Grain Ports
Period-/                    Annual
Port Location                  1        2       3       4        5      Total
--------------- '000 m tons -------------------
Bahia Blanca                 1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   2,000    6,000
Quequen                        428     428      428     428      856    2,568
Mar del Plata                  130      130     130      130     260      780
Buenos Aires                 1,558   1,558   1,558   1,558   3,116    9,348
S. Pedro, Ramallo, S. Nicolas,
V. Constitucion            1,102   1,102   1,102   1,102   2,204    6,612
Rosario                      2,155   2,155   2,155   2,155   4,310   12,930
Santa Fe                       555      555     555     555   1,110    3,330
Diamante                       134      134     134      134     268      804
Total of All Ports:    7,062   7,062   7,062   7 062  14,124   42 372
1/ Periods corresponding to harvest times are (1) October-November; (2)
December-January; (3) February-March; (4) April-May; and period (5)
corresponds to the non-harvest time, June-September.
November 3, 1977



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Table 5
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Network Flow Model Assumpti.ons for Summer and Winter Grain Production,
Existing Primary Storage Facilities and Domestic Consumption in 1984/85
Existing Primary
Production            Domestic      Storage Facilities-/
Region                     Summer Grain Winter Grain Consumption Summer Grain Winter Grain
Villarino-Patagones                45           651            66           241            106
Bahia Blanca                      401         2,301           443         1,340            619
Tres Arroyos                       13           726           235           884            281
Quequen                            73           437            68           438            162
Mar del Plata                     164           344           150           150             98
Tandil                             92            91            86           140             86
Olavarria                         108           300           200           183            155
Salliquelo                        400           530           185           195           132
La Pampa Sur                      300           487           183           198            151
La Pampa Norte                  1,596           500           495           306            146
Trenque Lauquen                 1,417           413           375           178            134
Bolivar                         1,900           500           530           505            450
Saladillo                         760            93           354            88             42
Cuenca del.Salaro                 432            64           241            64             50
Gran Buenos Aires                 197             3        1,754            233           415
San Antonio de Areco              630           152          409            323           200
Chacabuco                       1,181           226           546           503            528
Junin                             686           205           193           285            264
Gral Villegas                     866           186           196           211           166
Rio Cuarto                      2,241           330           623           463            395
Union-Marcos Juarez             1,600           749        1,387            727            639
Gral. Lopez                     1,050           400           735           482           400
Pergamino                       1,010           140           170           554           492
Ramallo-San Nicolas               457           128            57           127           119
Rosario                           858           234           251           265           231
Canada de Gomez                 1,961           738          918            879           821
Rio Segundo                       973           119        1,007            332           340
Santa Fe-San Francisco            864           150          678            252           242
San Justo-Reconquista             404           156          314             98            76
San Cristobal-Tostado             620            50            97            50            31
Chaco Oeste                       510            88            95            48            47
Chaco Este                        260            45            40            21            32
Formosa                           294            12            36            15              5
Tucuman, Salta-Jujuy               60            25           98             40            15
Mesopotamia                     1,786           608        1,123            420           294
Total:              26,207        12,197       141338          1,220         8,364
1/  The storage facilities for sutmer and winter grains are not mutually exclusive.
August 15, 1977



- 77 -
ANNEX 7
Table 6
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
With Project and Without Project Storage Capacity
and Grain Throughput
Silo Capacity      Silo Throughput
--------- -000 m tons -----------
With Project:
Project Silos                              2,000               4,841
Existing Primary Silos                     9,916              24,270
New Primary Silos                          4,750               9,054
Total:                   16,666              38,165
Without Project:l/
Existing Silos                             9,916              24,764
New Primary Silos                          4,994              12,503
Total:                  14,910               37,267
1/  Grains subject to deterioration due to lack of drying and storage
estimated at 896,000 m tons in without project case.
August 15, 1977



- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Table 7
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Without Project Results: Storage and Throughput in Existing Primary
Facilities and New Primary Facilities and Deterioration of Grain due
to Lack of Storage
Storage in  Throughput   Storage        Throughput
Existing    of Existing  in New         of New
Primary     Primary        Primary      Primary
Region                        Facilities  Facilities   Facilities  Facilities  Deterioration
------------------------ '000 m tons --------------------------
Villarino-Patagones              141           363          101           268
Bahia Blanca                     952         2,216          104           258
Tres Arroyos                     281           739            -             -
Quequen                          225           510            -             -            -
Mar del Plata                    150           411           11            28           35
Tandil                           140           183            -             -            -
Olavarria                        183           408            -             -            -
Salliquelo                       195           490           51           127          250
La Pampa Sur                     198           515           91           233            -
La Pampa Norte                   306           873          489         1,223            -
Trenque Lauquen                  178           495          399           997          239
Bolivar                          505         1,371          401         1,024            -
Saladillo                         88           220          253           633
Cuenca del Salaro                 64           160          134           336
Gran Buenos Aires                233           582            -             -
San Antonio de Areco             323           782            -             -
Chacabuco                        503         1,262           58           145            -
Junin                            285           775            -             -          116
Gral Villegas                    211           570          178           444           38
Rio Cuarto                       463         1,158          565         1,413             -
Union-Marcos Juarez              729         2,004           90           225          120
Gral. Lopez                      482         1,205           92           230             -
Pergamino                        554         1,150            -             -
Ramallo-San Nicolas              127           318          107           267             -
Rosario                          265           684          161           402             6
Canada de Gomez                  879         2,196          201           503             -
Rio Segundo                      332           830          105           262            -
Santa Fe-San Francisco           252           630          129           322           62
San Justo-Reconquista             98           245          136           315            -
San Cristobal-Tostado             50           125          194           486
Chaco Oeste                       48           120          191           478             -
Chaco Este                        21            53           89           222           30
Formosa                           15            38          107           268             -
Tucuman, Salta-Jujuy              40            85            -             -
Mesopotamia                      400         1,000          557         1,394             -
Total:           9,916        24,764        4,994        12,503           896
August 15, 1977



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Table 8
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
With Project Results: Storage and Throughput in Existing
Primary Facilities and New Primary Facilities
Storage in   Throughput   Storage        Throughput
Existing     of Existing  in New         of New
Primary      Primary       Primary       Primary
Region Name                    Facilities   Facilities   Facilities   Facilities
----------------  000 m tons ---------------------
Villarino-Patagones                  141          363           707           268
Bahia Blanca                         952        2,214           103           258
Tres Arroyos                         281          739             -             -
Quequen                              225          510             -             -
Mar del Plata                        150          411            25            63
Tandil                               140          183             -             -
Olavarria                           183           408             -             -
Salliquelo                           195          490            39            98
La Pampa Sur                         198          495           101           253
La Pampa Norte                       306          765           377           941
Trenque Lauquen                      178          445           182           442
Bolivar                              505        1,263           253           524
Saladillo                            88           220           443           633
Cuenca del Salaro                     64          160           223           337
Gran Buenos Aires                    233          582             -             -
San Antonio de Areco                 323          782             -             -
Chacabuco                            503        1,232             -             -
Junin                                285          775             -             -
Gral Villegas                        211          528            32            80
Rio Cuarto                           463        1,256           630         1,065
Union-Marcos Juarez                  729        1,823           210           526
Gral. Lopez                          482        1,250             -             -
Pergamino                            554        1,150             -             -
Ramallo-San Nicolas                  127          317           112           268
Rosario                              265          663            62           114
Canada de Gomez                      879        2,196           135           300
Rio Segundo                          332          759           150           333
Santa Fe-San Francisco               252          630           149           173
San Justo-Reconquista                 98          245           130           315
San Cristobal-Tostado                 50          125            17            45
Chaco Oeste                           48          120           320           478
Chaco Este                            21           53            89           123
Formosa                               15           38           211           268
Tucuman, Salta-Jujuy                  40           80             5             5
Mesopotamia                          400        1,000           645         1,144
Total:            9,916       24,270         4,750         9,054
August 15, 1977



- 80 -
ANNEX 7
Table 9
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
With Project Results: Storage Utilized and Throughput of 20 Proposed
Project Silos, the Amount of Summer and Winter Grains Handled and the
Port Destination
Source
of Grains
Storage                        From Farms
Utilized by   Throughput of Winter Summer          Port
Project Silo Location         Project Silos Project Silos Grains Grains!/ Destination
------------ -000 m tons -----------------
Catrilo                             10()           342           -    342    Bahia Blanca
Gral. Pico                         10(             390         140    250    Bahia Blanca,
Quequen, San.
Pedro, Romallo,
San Nicolas, Villa
Constitucion
Rivadavia                          lo1)            346        193    153    Bahia Blanca,
Buenos Aires
Pehuajo                            10(             347         242    105    Bahia Blanca,
Buenos Aires
French                             100            243            -    243    Buenos Aires
Bolivar                            100             243           -    243    Buenos Aires
Realico                            100            243            -    243    Bahia Blanca
Gral Villegas                      100             250           -    250    San Pedro, Romallo,
San Nicolas, Villa
Constitucion
El Porvenir                        100            194           -    194    Buenos Aires, Rosario
Pergamino                          100             250           -    250    San Pedro, Romallo,
San Nicolas, Villa
Constitucion
Leones                             100            250            -    250    Rosario
Laboulaye                          100             100           -    100    Rosario
Firmat                             100            100            -    100    Rosario
La Carlota                         100             250           -    250    Rosario
Las Rosas                          100             203           -    203    Bahia Blanca, San
Pedro, Romallo,
San Nicolas, Villa
Constitucion
San Francisco                      100C           211           -    211    Rosario
La Rubia                           100            250           -    250    Rosario
Tostado                            100            250            -    250    Rosario
Gral Pinedo                        100c           129           -    129    Santa Fe
Nogoya                             100             250           -    250    Diamante
Total:             2,000          4841          575  4,266
1/ Summer grains require drying.
January 19, 1978



- 81 -
ANNEX 7
Table 10
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Forecast Utilization of Major Grain Ports With and
Without Project
WITH PROJECT
PeriodL/
Port Location                      1        2       3        4        5       Total
---------------- '000 m tons ----------------
Bahia Blanca                     1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   2,000    6,000
Quequen                              -      428        -       -      314       742
Mar del Plata                        -      130        -        -      89       219
Buenos Aires                       124   1,540      849   1,558   2,346    6,417
S. Pedro, Ramallo, S. Nicolas,
V. Constitucion                  647     140   1,101       866      924    3,678
Rosario                            706      224   2,155       46   3,075    6,206
Santa Fe                             -        -       -        -      130       130
Diamante                           134      134     134        -      268       670
Total of All Ports:        2,611   3,596   5,239   3,470   9,146   24,062
WITHOUT PROJECT
Period-/
Port Location                      1        2       3        4        5       Total
0----------  '00 m tons -----------------
Bahia Blanca                     1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   2,000    6,000
Quequen                              -      428       -        -      127       555
Mar del Plata                        -      130        -       -       39       169
Buenos Aires                       124   1,558      843   1,558   2,007    6,090
S. Pedro, Ramallo, S. Nicolas,
V. Constitucion                  538     136   1,101   1,101        603    3,479
Rosario                            553     253   2,075       435   2,658    5,975
Santa Fe                             -       -       80       34    .30        144
Diamante                           134     134      134       84      268       754
Total of All Ports:        2,349   3,639   5,234   4,212   7,732   23,166
1/ See Table 4, Footnote 1.
August 15, 1977



- 82 -
ANNEX 7
Table 11
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Project Silos
25% Increase
in Outload-      Without
Baseline  20% Decrease   ing Capacity    Improved
Project Silo Location    Case    in Production  of All Ports  Rail Transport
_______________ ('000 m tons) ---------------------
Catrild                     342          236            250              250
Gral. Pico                  390          290            250              250
Rivadavia                   346          305            250              250
Pehuajd                     347          305            250              250
French                      243         150             250              240
Bolivar                     243          150            250              240
Realico                     243          243            250              250
Gral. Villegas              250          157            250              250
El Porvenir                 194         157             250              194
Pergamino                   250          250            250              250
Leones                      250          250            250              250
Laboulaye                   100          100            145              145
Firmat                      100          100            100              100
La Carlota                  250          182            250              250
Las Rosas                   203          100            203              203
San Francisco              211          100             211              211
La Rubia                    250          197            250              250
Tostado                     250          198            250              250
Gral Pinedo                 129         114             196              129
Nogoyd                      250          250            250              250
Total:         4,841        3,834          4,605            4,462
January 19, 1978



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GRAIN BOARD WITH PROJECT COMMITTEE
DEPARTMiENT OF
AGRICULTURE
l                            |     ~~~~~~~~~~GRAIN STORAGE l
IRC  OR                                            PROJECT COMMITTEE     l
|PROJECT UNIT                                  CINsLXN
INTERVENTOR ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     DIECO  &SAF                                  EGNER
Ft                                 ANALESOAUDTINGISTA ONAo ~                                                                                                                                                         A
World Eank-17RS9                     l
AN1 M
t:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     co



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Board - Financial Statements!/
Balance Sheet
(US$ Million)_:~/
ASSETS                           1974    1975    1976    LIABILITIES                          1974    1975    1976
Cash3/                           24.7      3.7      3.0    Debts4/                             7.5    17.8    16.5
Receivables3/                    10.2    11.4    19.4    Reserves for Future Payments-/   4.2          2.5      2.3
Inventories                       2.2      1.4      2.2    Amortizations                       0A8     0.3      0.2
Plant and Equipment6i            32.4    22.7    17.71/  Capital and Other Reservesa!         32.1    12.7      5.1
Third Parties' Account-a         66.4    85.7    84.8    Year's Profit                        24.9     5.9    18.2              1
Third Parties' Account            66.4    85.7    84.8               m
Total Assets:              135.9   124.9   127.1           Total Liabilities:          135.9   124.9   127.1
1/  Grain Board's commercial operations are not included as the corresponding balance sheets for 1974-75-76 have
not been approved as yet.
2/  Rates of exchange:  1974, $a 16=US$1; 1975, $a 72=US$1; 1976, $a 258-US$1.  These are average yearly rates.
Organization: Techint, Bs. As. Bulletin information, in general agreement with Banco Nacional data.
3/  Drop to cash and increase to receivables is due to internal transfers between the Grain Board's Commercial
and Operating Divisions. During this period the Grain Board was a heavy buyer of grain and the Operating
Division rendered services to the Commercial Division for handling, storing and exporting grain which were not
charged as they were incurred.
4/  Increase in 1975/76 due to revaluation in Argentine pesos of the Grain Board's debt to IDB.
5/  Sundry end of year payments.
6/  Fixed assets are not indexed for inflation, investments are accumulated at actual costs, less yearly
depreciation.  The Grain Board is considering rendering its fixed assets.                                                X 
7/  Capital expressed in Argentine pesos that devalue constantly shows a substantial drop when expressed in
US dollars.
8/  Mainly grain, during this period owned mostly by the Commercial Division of the Grain Board.
November 3, 1977



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Board - Financial Statementsl/
Profit and Loss Statements
(US$ Million)2!
EXPENSES                          1974    1975    1976    INCOME                               1974    1975    1976
Personnel                         22.4    15.4    16.6    Handling and Storage of Grain
Handlingand Storage of Grain       5.2      3.9     6.5       without Loss of Identity         18.4    11.7    21.0
Admnitraio  2Storage of Grain with Loss
Administration                     2.2      1.9     2.3       of Identity                      20.2    11.4    18.7
Interests, etc.                    0.3      0.1     0.2    Other Operating Income               2.3      0.1      0.4             1
01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Amortizations                      0.2      0.1     0.1    Duties                              16.9      6.5      6.8              n
Maintenance                        0.8      0.8      1.9    S
Sundry                              3.6      0.5      1.8
Sundry                             5.4      2.1     2.9
Sub-total:                   36.5    24.3    30.5
Year's Profit                     24.9      5.9    18.2
Total Expenses:              61.4    30.2    48.7          Total Income:                  61.4    30.2    48.7
1/  Grain Board's commercial operations are not included.
2/ Rates of exchange: 1974, $a 16-US$1; 1975, $a 72=US$1; 1976 $a 258-US$l. These are average yearly rates.
Organization:. Techint, Bs. As.  Bulletin Information, in general agreement with Banco Nacion data.
November 3, 1977



- 86 -
ANNEX 9
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Terms and Conditions for Leasing Project Silos
1.        The Grain Board, as the responsible authority, should issue invita-
tions to bid for the leasing of project silos, to operate them as country
elevator facilities to receive grain for purchase or for storage, to dry,
clean and fumigate grain as requiired, and to merchandise it privately or on
consignment in the domestic markcet or through grain exporters. Bids should be
invited as soon as possible after construction contracts have been awarded,
and not later than one year before scheduled completion of construction.
Leases should be tentatively approved within 30 days of submission of bids
to allow an adequate training period for management and operational personnel,
and formalized upon completion of construction, installation and testing of
all equipment.
2.        Bids should be entertained only from legally incorporated entities
subject to all rights and obligations under Argentine corporation or cooperative
law. They should provide evidence, satisfactory to the Grain Board, of finan-
cial viability and creditworthiness, backed by a recognized financial
institution.
3.        The proposed lessees would form a partnership in whose name the silo
would be leased. The partnership would be comprised of cooperative, grain
merchants, agricultural producers and private businessmen. None of the
members of this partnership could be partners in some other enterprise; they
would each have separate individual financial interests. If any two members
form a new corporation while they are members of the silo lessee partnership,
one of them must sell his share to an existing member(s) or a new member.
4.        To attract lessees, the lease for the initial year should be minimal
and payable at the end of the first year. Although contracts would run for
three years.
5.        Bids should be submitted on the basis of a three-year lease, with
option to renew for successive three-year periods as long as the leasing terms
and conditions are adhered to; however, lessees would have the option to
rescind the contract with six months' notice assuming all financial objectives
are met. The lessee would also have the option to purchase the facility at
any time after the third year of operation on the following terms:
(a)  The purchase price wouLd be the total cost of the facility,
in terms of United Staltes dollars at the time of the formali-
zation of the lease; i.e., when construction and testing of
all equipment has been completed, including financing costs
during the construction stage.



- 87 -
ANNEX 9
(b) If the lessee enters into a purchase contract within the
initial three-year leasing period, the lease fees paid
up to date of the purchase contract would be applied against
the purchase price.
6.        The lessee must undertake to maintain the facility in good working
condition at all times; to repair or replace all mechanical or electrical
equipment which becomes unserviceable and which is no longer covered by
manufacturers' guarantee; and to permit periodic engineering inspection by
authorized representatives of the Grain Board.
7.        The lessee must, at all times, keep the elevator and all grain
in the elevator fully insured against loss or damage by fire through a com-
pany approved by the Grain Board.
8.        The terms of the lease should require annual licensing of the
facility by the Grain Board for operation as a public elevator and subject
to the following conditions:
(a) The license is not transferrable.
(b) The lessee must comply with all regulations issued by the
Grain Board with respect to the operation of a licensed
country elevator.
(c) All grain received for storage must be kept within the
confines of the building(s) described in the license.
(d) The lessee must maintain records, in a form satis-
factory to the Grain Board, of
(i) all grain, by grade, received into, stored, or
shipped out of the elevator; and
(ii) the moisture content and dockage assessed on all
grain received for storage or purchased by the
lessee.
(e) The lessee must submit to the Board, as required by the
Board, periodic summary reports of all grain received into
the elevator; whether such receipts are for purchase or
storage; all grain shipped out of the elevator since the
last report, and stocks of each grain remaining in storage.
(f) The lessee must submit, by a specified date each year,
a return to the Grain Board showing net receipts, ship-
ments and balance remaining in storage, for each grade of
grain handled, covering the previous operational year; the
quantities of each grain dried during the year; the quantities
of each grain cleaned; and of the screenings removed.



- 88 -
ANNEX 9
9.        Before any contract is signed, the lessee shall furnish to the Grain
Board security, by bond, for the due performance of all obligations as specified
1.. the terms of the lease, and for the payment of all sums that may become due
under any contract by the lessee relating to his operation of the elevator.
January 19, 1978



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
100000 M TON CAPACITY SILO MODEL
PROJECTED YEARLY TURNOVER SCHEDULE
LOADED  100000 M TONS       LOADED: ADDITIONAL 75000 M TONS
100000 MAX CAPACITY                                                LOADED: ADDITIONAL  75000 M TONS
100000 MAX CAPACITY                                                   _ 
/7\000g  25000 M TONS x (1+3) mo -   A000 M T
25000 M TONS x 4 oPo = .2B                         RATE OF LOADING            x  (1 TONS
0 1 + 3)
55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05
50000~~~~~~
RATE OF UNLOADINGO
2500O P. TONS
-25000 M TONS x4 o = 0.6C                                                    x 4 Co- 0-28
15000 M
TONS
/     100  10 M  TONS x  4     - .4D  0      10000 M TONS x 4 m,
JAN        FEB        MAR         APR        MAY          JUN          JUL        AUG         SEP         OCT         NOV        DEC
COARSE GRAIN HARVEST                                                                    1 FINE GRAIN HARS
CORN                                                                                    ISHEAT  75000 M TONS
SORGHUM | 175000 M TONS                   KEY.                                           OTHER
OTHER
r   P. PRODUCER
SUMMARY       STORAGE ACCOUNT Mo.                       LI L LESSEE
P LM E                                                                  SUMMARY    STORAGE ACCOUNT Mo
0.5A -25000 M TONS 03 1 -                               [   M: MERCHANT                                         P L M E
0.2B= 25000 M TONS 0- 4 -.                                                                 0 sA = 25000 M TONS 03 1
0.6 = 75000 M TONS    I                                 Li E. EXPORTER                      0.2B = 25000 M TONS x    --
0.5C = 25000 M TONS   -- 4                                                                  0.5C =25000 M TONS x     4
0.6D =15000 M TONS x- 1 -- 4
0.4D = 10000 M TONS x -- 4 --4
175000 M TONS
NOTES.
TOTAL GRAIN THROUGHPUT: 100000 + 75000 + 75000 = 250000 M TONS/YEAR
TURNOVER: 250000 M TONS . 100000 M TONS = 2.5
A: GRAIN STORED 3 -o FOR PRODUCER'S ACCOUNT AND THEN 1 -oo FOR LESSEE'S ACCOUNT
B. GRAIN STORED FOR LESSEE'S ACCOUNT, 60%-1 -o AND 40%-4 mo
C. GRAIN STORED FOR MERCHANT'S ACCOUNT. 4 -oo
D: GRAIN STORED 60%-i -o AND 40%-4 -o FOR LESSEE'S ACCOUNT AND SUBSEQUENTLY 4 m0 FOR EXPORTER'S ACCOUNT
World Bank- 17823                           r+ tX
H  H
Q






- 90 -
ANNEX 10
Table I
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
100,000 - ton Capacity Silo Model 1/
Iconae end Operating Coat Prolentions (to Buyer or Leaese a. Operators of Silo)
Yield or Number of               Cost or
Units at Full                   Price      -------------------------r----------- Year  ---------------------------------------
Development                   Per Unit
Volume Data (Argentina)                                                                        1976/77        1979/80      1980/81      1981/82    1982/83        1983/84      1984/85
Total grain production 2/,million m ton            --                                 --           31.3           33.9          34.8         35.7        36.6         37.5         38.4
Enioting primary groin otorage 2l/pillinm D ton --                                    --           12.6           14.1          14.6         15.1        15.6         16.1         16.6
Project grain storage, million o ton               -- .-                                             --             --            --           --         1.5          2.0          2.0
Estimated yearly turnover                          --                                 __            2.5            2.4           2.4          2.4         2.1          2.1          2.1
--------------- Model Yee .s -------------
Volume Data (Model)                                            % of total                                       -1-3            4            5         6-20
Oilin throuchput                                   m--------     tons            --------
A. Grain conditioned and stored for    ( 100% stored 3              207.              --
produce's accout                       (                                                                          -       20,000       40,000      50,000
B. Grain purchased, conditioned, stored, ( 60% stored I  o.)        50                                                       50,000      100,000    125,000
and sold by leJsee                     (  40% stored 4  o.)                                                               5,
C. Groin utored overflowed fron
existing silos oweed by merchants   ( 100% stored 4 no.)    20%                                                  -_       20,000       40,000      50,000
cod coops.                             (                                          -_
D. Grains toted for exporter's account ( 100% stored 4 en.)    10%_                                                          10,000       20.000       25.000
Slb-total       3/-                                                                                             -        100,000      200,000    250,000
Yearly turnover-                                                                                                 --         1            2           2.5
Income (to buyer or lossee of silo)                                               USS                         -------------------U3$ 000 _-_____________
Volume
Freight to silo (all trutk)                A+B+D    Avg.  30 KM                   0.85/n tpo                         --           68          136         170
Conditioning of grain:4/                     --            %
Loading and uoloading                    A+F+D          100                     1.40/n ton) prices                --          112           224         280
Drying It stage)                        A+B+D           65                    4.00/n ton) inclode                --          208           416         520
Drying 2nd  -tuge)Y/                     A+B+D           22                     0.85/n ton ) up to                             15            30          37
Cleaning                                 A+B+D           80                     0.70/n ton) I no.                 --           45            90         112
Fumigating                               A+B+D          100                     1.70/n ton ) stor-ge                           136          272         340
Freight to port                            A+B+D    Avg. 300 RM                   4.85/n ton                                     388          776         970
Storiog of grain                             __            __    Period
Loading and unloading                      C            100       --            1.40/n ton                                      28           56          70
Starage f"                               ( A            100      3 nO.)                                           __           66           132         165
(C+D           100     4 en.)         1.10/n ton/mo,                     --          132          264         330
Con+misuio  collected               7%  n all f gregoimg imncoe                       --                            --            84          168         209
Cooditioned grain sold:                                   Vol.
Whoot            ()Average    20%                                              107/n" ton    enpected 5%          -         1,712        3,424       4,2800
Cca              (A +0.6 (B+D): l            abu ) t     25%                    85/  ton  ) price increase                  1,700        3,400       4,250
oth-r            (      0.4 (B+D) : io  ) 2                                                                                 2nombo   40-  66/n ton.   2 hen t   --  2,112  4,324  5,280
Giber  (                    )             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13%      01/n ton.   harvst 6,2.172                                4,344       5430I
Total rro_no                                                                                                      --        08,978      17,956      22,443
Operating Costs (To buyer or lessee of silo)
Direct Costs
Grain purchased,- Wheat                                  20%                   102/n toe  )                       __        1,632        3,264       4,080
Corn                                  25%                   00/n ton    8/                     __       1,620         3,240       4,050
So-ghum                               40%                    63/n ton  )                       __        2,016        4,032       5,040
Other                                 15%                   172/n to )                                   2.064        4,12        5j16
Sub-total (short torn loan)                                                     ,-                                          7,33n  v   ~ ~ 32  14,664  10,330
Direct lahbr:  Skilled         25 persons x 12 no.                             250.-/mo.                          -            60           70           75
Unskilled      10 persona x  8 no.                             200.-/o.                           --           12           14          16
Fuel (light grade)             3 kg/n ton dried                                200/n ton                          __           42           84         104
Furchased power               (1   KWH/n son conditionad)                      o .10 Ik8                                        8           16          20
(0.5 toHnI. toan/m. storge)                                                                       3            6           S
Froight: ti  silo (all truck)      Avg. 30 KM                                  0.70/= ton                         --           68          136         170
to port                   Avg.300 Yll                                3.88/m con                         --          310          621         776
Miscellaneous materiuls                 --                                   5,00D.-/Ro.                          -3 30                      50         60
Broker commiasino                       1%                                                                                     12           24          30
Toes, etc.1                                                                                                      _
Sob-total                                                                                                         __        7,877       15,685      19,589
Indirect Costs                10/
Maintonance, in-l. outerilsl       6 persons x 12 no.                          250.-/mo,                          --           30           60          92
Admninstrotior expenses                 --
intl. i                                                                  10,000.-/mo.                           --          100          110         120
Tonhnical, adminiutrative and
supervisory peronn.el           6 persons x 12 no.                           600.-/.                                         36           43          43
Manageeent                         3 persons a 12 no.                       13,000.-/yr.                         _             39           39          39
Sub-total                                                                                                         --          205          252         294
Total Goerotion Coot                        --                                     --                               --        8,082       15,937      19,883
Net Operatino gumbou (to buyer mu __
optrevor so silo)                                         --                                           896        2,019       2,560
Lease Payment to Groin Soard                __-                                                                      -          50          ,0          ,0
L.... P-Y -t t- Gt-i- B-d ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                                                500    1, 300    1, 700
Net Operotino surplus (to leasee as __
operato  of e.. o)e                                                                                    396          719         860
1/  All figurea correspond to one ailo of 100,000-r-ron capacity, 20 silos of iilar napacity  IoPld be finaned cedar thb  pr,ejat.  EBah silo
could take three ye-rs to build.
2/ Source DIGID sad Grain Board, excludes pnrt silos.
3/  Yearly turnover assumed 2.5 as silo would be located in area nf acute shortage of storag  space.
4/ Yield losses fron comditioning are brorn by thn p-oducer.
5/  Vol. dried corn, 70G., sorghum, 907.; wheat, 207.; other, 50%.
6/  See Working Paper 11.  This beonfit not only inoludes a pric   effect due ti  storage bht also includes a monetary benefit due to upgrading of
grain th-ough mining of lower quality groins with higher quality g-aina.
7/ Grain purchaoes financed with short-inca loan, see An.na 10,  Table 3.
8/ Producer prices for period 1981/82, see Working Paper 12,
9/ Mainly income o-n, abown in Annex 10, Table 3.
0/ Yrom Working Paper 3.
Noeeber  8, 1977






- 91 -
ANNX 10
Table 2
ARGElTt0A
GRAIN STORAGE FO0JECT
100,000-n-ton Ceoneit' Silo Mode12
Intone st  OPratti9 Cost frolsetioes (to Grain Socod as Opoostor of Silo)v'
Yield or Nceher
of Units at Foil                     Cost or Pre                                             -------__-_______-___-__-_____ _ Y-- -ears------------------------------
Volt- Date (Argettie-)                                          Develoenet                            p-r Ueit             1976/77       1979/80      1980/81      1981/82       1902/83      1983/84      1984/85
Total Grate prod.or.ti3/, ailli7.er toes                             -                                    _                31.3          33.9         34.8         3507          36.6         37.5          38.4
Etiatieg Primry Gois  Stor-g_ , Jillion e toeo                       -                                   _                 12.6          14.1         14.6         15.1          15.6         16 1          16 6
freject Crete Sternee, eillite  t toos                               _-                                                                                - _                        1.5          2.0          2.0
Estrinat  Yearly Tureover                                                                                -                  2.5           2.4          2.4          2.4           2.1          2.1          2.1
2 of Total                                           1-3          4             5            6-20
voluon  Dts (hodel)                                                                Silo                                                     ---------------- -o.  ------------------
A.  Grati  Coedtioted  Vd StOred for Frodorer's Acroont   100% etorod 3 no                20%                                                          20,000        30,000       40,000
0.  Cr010 Condltioned and Stored for trrhants sod              960  etored 1 o=V  )            52              '                               -        50,000      75,000       100,000
Coop's Arrount                                           140% stored 4 0 )
C.  Coeditiooed Grain Stored for S-hrcsts nod Coop's           100% stored 4 -O           20%                                                  -       20,000       30,000        40,000
locoont
D.  Graei Stored for Epofrter's Accent                         100%  torod 4 to           10%                                                  -       10.000        15,000       20,000
Sub-totl:                                                                                                                         -      100,000      150,000      200,000
Yearly Trnov-r:                                                                                                                   -             1            1.5          2.0
Intone                                             C~~~~~~      ~       ~~       ~       ~~~~olett  .  U00                 1-3          4             0           6-20
In---          00$u-  -   '000 - ------ -
Coeditionoi of Gtroi4/:
Loading sod UJlo4ilni                                           A+b+D                100           1.40/n ton                                         112           168          224
Dryteg let Otagdf                                              4AB+0+                65            4.00/r  ton                             -          208          312          416
ryteg 2ed 0taor i                                              A+BtD                22            0.80/r  too                             -I5                      23            30
Clarying                                                        A+B+D                80            0.70/r toe                                          45            60           90
FosigstinB                                                      A+B+D               100            1.70/I ton                              -          136          204           272
Storing of Grei:                                                                           Period
Loadi=g  .nd 00losditg                                             C                100    -       1.40/1n too                             -           28           42            56
Storooe FCo                                                        A                 100  3  o.                                            -           66            99          132
C+D                100  6 , .   1.10/n too/no.                                      132           190          264
Ci,tsfi  Collotted                                                   5% n .11 foregoIng into                -                                -            37           56           74
.of. fit fret  Up9redod Quolity teso.ltIg frvo
Miioe   Glrdeo                                                     1% (A+B+D)                     91,70/r  to-                             -           73           110          147
Cosistniotn Shottle Troil  Seroire to port                          80  (A+b+C+D)                   1.001/ toe                                           80          120          160
Total Ioe:32                                                                                                                                            1400 
Onsratleo oste
Direct Costs:
Direct Loer  SkIiled                                      25 pre.ocx 12 IO.                     250/et.                                    -           60           68            75
U-ekiltod                                  10 person-   n 8nO                   200/o.                                      -           12           14            16
-oSe  (light erode)                                        3 kg/- tco  dried                    200/nston                                  -           42            63           84
Ferche..d Fever                                            1 kth/n toe coditionod   )             D                                                                  12            6
0.5 kob/n toe/ne. storae               0.10/let                                               3            5            16
ti.eoelaeorn osh' tertele                                              -                     5,000/e                                       -           30            40           50
Tacos, EtC.
S.b-totl:                                                                                                                         -          155           202          247
Indirect Costs:
Voietononre, tnrlodtng  toriels-/                          6 persons o   12 o                   250/n.                                     -            30           60           92
Adeito _trstloe  Epen.es... iln ding Iosor-ece             -                                  O.OOO/o.                                     -            76           86           96
Tooheiral, Adetniitr-tio  and Sppeorisory Frsonoe    5 per-ons x 12 so                         600/o.                                     -            29           29           36
oaoa-ogetnt                                                2 p-rooee x 11 0                 13,000/yr.                                                 26            26           26
Sub-tot-l:                                                                                                                                    161          201          250
Tt01 O-per-tito  Cotte                                                                                                             -          316          403          497
Sot oproatins Ourotue                                                                                                                           -          616          997        1,368
1/  All fig0et  -orretpond no one oilo of 100,030-r-too rspatity, 20 eilos of stellar capacity told b6  fioneced under rho project.  Efrh  ile could tol. thse. year-
to build.
2/  In contrast to the bhyer or the Ieese of the  ic.,  rhe Grnie Bard ..oud not pre-ide traceporoatioceeroile; Or cod  not e-n8S  oi the purrh3re 3nd
sarhkting of gr-oin ad don to lenk of fin-ncial  Icentlvee   it hte  been sesoued that it  co-ld onlyattainooeraoe  turnover ot cf o tbonen- ysor in ypar 6
aed ooerds.n
3/  Soorce DIGID and Grati o BPod, entlude- port sies.
4/  Yield losses t.fr    .onditionlet are bone by thc prodorer
5/ Vot dried ror. 70%; .orghr,  90Q;  hert, 20; other, 50%.
g  Aversor to.poetre rnArlet prtie for petitd 1981/82, act A-ne   10 ord Workitg Paper 12.
7/From   orkig PFper 3.
Septnhbr 29, 1977



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
100,000 m ton Capacity Silo Model
Cash Flow Projections (Buyer of Silo)y
(us$ millions)
1     2    3    4         5       6        7      8       9       10       11      12       13      14       15      16       17      18       19     20
Income
2/
Borrower's equity                             --   --           2.2      --       --      --     --       --      --       --      --      --       --      --       --      --       --      --      --
Long term loan 37                                               8.7       --      --       --     --      --       --      --      --       --      --       --      --       --      --       --     --
Short term loan 4/-                                             7.3   14.7    18.3    18.3  18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3   18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3  18.3
Total operating income                                          9.0    18.0    22.4    22.4  22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4   22.4
Last year's cash balance                      --    --    --    --      0.5      0.3     0.3    0.3      0.2     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      A.0     0 1    0.1       0.1     0.1   0.1
Total Cash Inflow                                              2 727.3     33.2    41.0     41.0   41.0    40.9    40.8    40.8   40.8   40.8    40.8    40.8    40.       40.8   40.8    40.8  40.8
Expenditures
5'
Investments:  Fixed assets-               5/10.9                         --       --      --     --       --      --      --       --      --       --      --       --      --       --      --      --
Working capital1  grain                        7.3    14.7    18.3    18.3  18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3  18.3
Operating costs5/                                               0.8     1.2      1.6     1.6    1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6     1.6    1.6
Debt service
Long term  loan principal                                     0--      .8     0.9      0.9    1.0     1.1      1.2     1.3      1.5      --       --      --       --      --       --      --      --
Long term loan interest (8%)                               --         0.7     0.6      0.6    0.5     0.4      0.3     0.2     0.1       --       --      --       --      --       --      --      --
Short term loan principal                                     7.3   14.8    18.3    18.3  18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3   18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3  18.3
Short term loan interest (8%)                                 0.1     0.2     0.2      0.2    0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2    0.2
Income Tax 6/                                                   0.2     0.2     0.3      0.4    0.5      0.5     0.5     0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6    0.6
Dividends distributed                                           0.2     0.3      0.5     0.4    0.4      0.4     0.3      0.2     0.1     1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7    1;7
Total Cash outflow                                             26.8    32.9   40.7    40.7  40.8    40.8   40.7    40.7    40.7   40.7    40.7    40.7    40.7    40.7    40.7    40.7  40.7
Cash Balance at Year's End                                   0.5      0.3     0.3      0.3    0.2     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1    0.1
1/  J.N.C would build the silo during years 1-3 for a total cost of US$ 9.5 million plus US$ 0.1 interest during construction payable in year 2,
US$ 0.5 in year 3 and US$ 0.8 in year 4, making a total investment for the buyer of US$ 10.9 million.
2/  20% of total investment, it is assumed that the borrower would purchase the silo in year 4 and commence operations the same year.
3! 80% of total investment, amortized in eight years at 8% interest; with one year of grace.
4/ For financing purchase of grain stored an average two months, see Annex 10, Table 1.
5/  From Working Paper 3.
6/  30% after interest charges and US$0.3 million depreciation charge, see  Annex 10, Table 1.                                                                                                                        w Z
September 13, 1977.



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
100.000 n ton Capacity Silo Model
Financial Rate of Return
(US$ Millions)
1    2    3       4       5       6      7       8       9       10       11       12        13       14       15       16       17       18        19       20
Benefits                                                                For Buyer of Silo
Total Inco-e              --   --   --       9.0   18.0   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4    22.4
Costs
Itvestents-                                 10.9    --       ---                            -- --            --         --       --       --       --       --       -- __  _ 
Operating Costs                              8.1   15.9   19.9   19.9   19.9   19.9   19.9    19.9    19.9    19.9              19.9    19.9    19.9    19.9    19.9    19.9    19.9
tnse Tar                                     0.2     0.2    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5          0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6
Total Cost                                  19.2   16.1   20.2   20.3   20.4   20.4   20.4    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5    20.5
Financi.l Rate of Return 18.2% (Before interest)
Sensitivity Analysis             R.O.R.
Investment            + 10%        16.07
Oparating Cost        + 10%        15.97.
Income                - 10%        13.3%
For Grain Board as Lessor of Slin
Benefits
Total Lease Income       --   --   --       0.5     1.3    1.7    1.7    1.7        1.7    1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7
Costs
In-at-ets                 1.0 5.6 2.9 -              -        -               -                  --   --   --   --   --   --   --   --   --   --
Financial Rate of Return 12.5% (Before interest)
Sensitivity Analysis             R,O.R.
Inve-tnent            + 10%        11.0%
Lease                 - 10%        11.0%
For Grain Bpard as Operator of Silo
Benefits
Total Income              -- r- se           0.9    1.4    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9            1.9      1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9       1.9      1.9      1.9
Costs
Investament               1.0  5.5  3.0    --        --      --      -_      __      __      __       __       __       _ 
Operating Costs           --   --   --       0.3     0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5           0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5     0.5       0.5      0.5
Total Cost                1.0  5.5  3.0    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5          0.5    0.5    0.5        0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5
Financial Bate of Return: 9.9%(Before interest)
Sensitivity Analysis            R.O.R.
Invesntent            + 10%        8.7%
Operating Cost        + 10%        9.4%
Income                - 10%        8.0%
September 28, 1977



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cools hoard
Cash Plow P-o-EotioxI'
1978       1979        1980       1981        1982       1983        1984       1985        1986       1987        1988        1989       1990        1991        1992       1993       1994-97
Prolected to-IN ENONTts (milliE  tEo)                      15.0       17.0        18.0       L8.0        18.E        18.0       18.0        18.0       18.0        18.0       18.0        18.0        18.0       18,0        18.0        18.0       08.0
To-sl Talon of Ex-orts  (U0S billio-)                       1.42       1.81        2.07       2.07        2.07        2.07       2.07        2.07       2.07        2.07       2.07        2.07        7.07       2.07        2.07        2.07        2.07
Tax on Grai Eoom-s 17. (Ehon-nld Ehro-gh Croix
S-asd)                                                14.2        18.1        20.7       20.7        20.7       20.7        20.7       20.7        20.7        20.7       20.7        20.7        20.7       20.7        20.7        20.7       20.7
Tax  n Gr-in EnporEt  1.5% (oha-oIe.d throxgh
08018)                                                21.1        27.1       31.0        31.0       31.0        31.0        31.0       31.0        31.0       31.0        31.0        31.0       31.0        31.0        31.0        31.0       31.0
Orsix Board ierries.:  Grsin hoodlins                   b 44.6         6        54.3       54.3        54.3       54.3        54.3       54.3        54.3       54.3        54.3        54.3       54.3        54.3        54.3        54.3       54.3
OthEr Inrt-m/                                             3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.8         3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Fxnds Eon G-rsh Sto-rSa ProJseti/:
Lag-tror Loan - I118                                   1.3        13.9       30.5        22.5        5.3         -           -          -           -                      -
-tonal bansk                            -          4.1        12.0        8.9         2.1
Argtine R.1                                                        9.2         1.7        -           -
IJcx-  frm Orals hoard Orsraod SRlox (assamd
10 xlo)                                                 -          - (                    1.9         8.4       14.0        17.7       18.7        18.7        18.7       18.7        18.7        18.7       18.7        18.7        18.7       18.7
InOD from Ls.s.d Silos (assossd 10 silas)                 -          _                      0.5         3.3        9.4        15.0        17.0       17.0        17.0       17.0        17.0        17.0       17.0        1730        17.0       17.0
Provisos YTa-   Cash Balanno                              3.0       (6.4)    i.j           (4.93       15.6        14.6       10.0        12.3       12.8         9.5       13.9        18 8        19 ,1    14.9          11.2 _._ _1  t
Torah Caah Inflow:                                   87.3       120.6       154.3      137.9       143.8      147.0       151.7       157.0      157,5       154.9      150.6      013.5        164.0      159.6       155.9       152.7       156.1
Enp.nditErsr
IRessrs-n-s:  Co-pl.si-o of DNCE0  ngoing 0il1
saD/ al.ossr pcoJncakt-/                37.0       14.0         9.6
Olssr works son soi.Rng Croix hoard
fasilitie                              11.0       12.0        13.2        -           -           -          _           _          _           _           _                                  - _                    -           -
Groin stosags PrsJncti/                    3.5        43.2       83.4        60.8       14.5         -
Ponds  vailoblo for nev 0000G ails
and oloa-or proJer_t_/                   _                      .           _         50.0        60.0       60.0        65.0       70.0        70.0        70.0        70.8       80.0        80.0        80.8       80.0        85.0
Opnoa-iog Coast   Grain Bo-rd Eacilitirss   d
soroi.n.                           26.5        30.5        31.5       31.5        31.5       31.5        31.5       31.5        31.5        31.5       31.5        31.5        31.5       31.5        31.5        31.5        31.5
Groix Board snd DNGEG EC laciss       15.0        05.1       04.0        16.1       14.1        14.1       16.1        16.1        16.1       16.1        16.1        16,1       16.1        16.1        16.1        16.1       16.1
Gran isord oporated proJent
s.i.. (....ssd 10 sf100)             -          -           -          0.6         3.9         9.4       12.9        13.7       13.7        13.7       13.7        13.7        13.7        13.7       13.7        13.7        13.7
Dost S-rvi-o:
LogG-tsr. Loan Frincip:l:  IBRD3 /                      .                                 6 _  4.1    6.1         6.1        6.1         6.1        6.1         6.1        6.1         6.1         6,1         6.1        6.1         -           -
Msdlao-.-rr Lo-n Principal: Local backs7/               _     -    _           _                                  6.9        4.8         6          o.7         -           .                       
LonS.tmsa Loss Itoo.st:  I130  (87.)                   0.1        1.2         3.7        5.0         4.9         4.9        4.4         3.0        3.4         2.9         2.4        2,0         1.5         1.0        0.5
Long-trom Lo..  C-s. Charge:  IBRD (3/4%)              0.6         0.5         0.4        0.2         _          _                                        - _                                      - _                    -           -
Ondioxt-era Lonn Ortnrs-t:   Loc-l banks (87.)                     0.3         1.3         0.0        2.0         2,1        1.6        1,1         0,5        _.           -                      __-_ -                                         _
Toral Gosh Outflov:                                   93.7      119.5       159.2      122.3       129.2      137.0       139.4       144.2      148.0       140.3      139.8       144.4      148.8        148.4      147.9       141.3       146.3
Tots1 W.asro at Yar's ECd'/:                          (6.4)       1.1        (4.9)      15.6        14.6       10.0        12.3        12.8        9.5        13.9       18.8        19.1        14.9       11.2         8.0        11.4         9.8
1   Thi  cash flov axcepting prsorsc-roln- ad figoron has brso board so Gra-i  Bo-cd -olmn, licomes so. d -opoosso  proJected ovec tho pesiod 1978080 nod r-aai-oog  -otn  th.r..s ft-r.  A11 fiv.r-s ooprssad inootast a id.1977, US0dollars.
2/ nc;dos is- foo .ros  al.s of as..t. -och ox primary silos, tr-nks,  hoboloto oqoip-ans,  t,.
3/ Smnlsdino posts sosEinRooclol.
4/ The majority of rthsa  fosds  -r .rornrkod fo- rho folloncig silos:  Rosario, 80,000 = tons; B-os.nq-nra-, 80,000 = tros; B-oso  Airsa, 20,000 = Eons; Sos Podro, 20,000   to-s; Son Ninol.s, 12,000 = tros; PIs too primary silos
totalitg 20,000   l too.  apo-IsP .
S/ As it Is sot possiblo to oxoimors with nortaisin   vhst typo of Isvest=sots vonld bs  ado, 0 nosnorvastoi  position has boos odoplod  aumloR  hot, is.r.asos is op-roting noons -ould be .annolled  out by iscroasna i.  t..      ors  reisutiog from Ithes
Eovosrmosaasd.  hefors, so ch-nges io  oper-tina cot sno  In-oon  h-ve boos shoon
j/  15 ye5-O  is-loding three of Scans at 8% interest.
7/  8 y-ars in.lodisg Roof sf grans at 8% interost.
8/  The c-nparxti-ly small dsficits  oould bh  not vith ahotr-teor  borr-ieg.
Oc-ob-r 21, 1977



- 95 -
ANNEX 11
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Improved Export Price
1.        By increasing storage facilities, the project would encourage
holding grain in anticipation of higher export prices during the post-harvest
season. The historical differential between the harvest time and average
annual export price has been 10% for corn and sorghum and 15% for wheat and
oilseeds. Detailed explanation of these estimates is presented in Working
Paper No. 11. Allowing for the fact that even with adequate storage facili-
ties, farmers would continue to sell a substantial portion of their crops
immediately after the harvest to pay off financial obligations, only one-
half of the grain handled by project silos is expected to benefit from the
improved export price differentials (Table 1).
Grain Loss Savings
2.        It is assumed that only corn and sorghum are subject to deteriora-
tion due to lack of storage. Wheat was excluded because it needs storage
only marginally and because it would not be a major user of project silos.
Other crops (oilseeds) were excluded because their high unit value gives them
storage priority. The mission found that the grain loss due to lack of stor-
age averages 7.5% of the annual value of corn and sorghum crops now stored
by the farmers under precarious conditions. Detailed computations of the
incidence of grain losses are available in the project file. This loss
would be eliminated for 70% of corn and sorghum using a project silo (Table
2).
3.        The reason that grain loss savings apply to only 70% of corn and
sorghum using a project silo derives from the mission's estimate that appro-
ximately 10% of corn and sorghum would not be purchased directly from the
farmers but from the wholesalers (i.e., after it has been dried) and that
another 20% would be harvested under conditions where drying would not be
required and deterioration would not be a problem.
Distribution Cost Savings
4.        The project would lower grain distribution costs including handling,
transport, waiting and interest costs. These savings are not uniform for all
project silos but vary depending on the distance between them and the ports
and on the improvements of reception facilities in different ports financed
by the project. Rail distances between project silos and the nearest grain
ports are shown in Table 3. They vary between 50 and 638 km and, for the
ports of Santa Fe and Diamante, refer to the meter and standard gauge rail



- 96 -
ANNEX 11
track, respectively. Proposed grain distribution improvements do not apply
equally to all grain ports serving the project silos. Grain classification
facilities would be provided at Bahia Blanca and Rosario, and weighbridges
and elevating dumps for modified grain cars are planned for the ports of
Villa Constitucion, Rosario, San Nicolas, Buenos Aires and Bahia Blanca.
No improvements are envisaged for other grain ports, including Santa Fe
and Diamante, serving the project silos.
5.        Transport Cost Savings.  The uniform and complete grain trains
operating on a constant schedule between the project silos and grain ports
would reduce grain transport costs. According to the recent FA studies
reviewed and updated by the mission, the variable cost savings in changing
from a mixed conventional train to a block train operation envisaged for
the project would amount to US$1.40 per 1,000 m ton per km.
6.        Transport savings are not uniform for all project silos but
reflect the rail distance between them and the grain ports. The actual
savings to the project have been obtained by multiplying the per m ton per
km savings by the actual rail distance between the project silo and the
nearest grain port. Table 4 gives estimated transport cost savings for
individual project silo-port pairs and for the entire project silo system.
7.        Interest Cost Savings,.  Grain tied up in transit incurs interest
cost. The proposed silo and rail sector improvements would reduce the transit
time by eliminating or lowering rail transport delays. The resulting interest
cost savings would vary for different ports of shipment depending on the type
of improvements included in the project.
8.        Actual time saving estimates for grain transported from different
project silos to the nearest grain ports are shown in Table 5. The interest
rate used to estimate interest cost savings is 12% per annum and the weighted
average FOB price of grain is US$131.11 per m ton. The resulting per m ton
interest cost savings are presented below while annual silo system savings
at full development are shown iLn Table 6.
Interest cost savings for silo--port pairs, including ports with all improve-
ments:
12% x US$131.11 x 102 hrs
= US$0.183 per m ton
24 hrs x 365 days
Interest cost savings for silo-port pairs, including ports with some improve-
ments:
12% x US$131.11 x 78 hrs       US$0.14 per m ton
24 hrs x 365 days
Interest cost savings for silo-port pairs, including ports with no improvements:
12% x US$131.11 x 51 hrs       US$0.092 per m ton
24 hrs x 365 days



- 97 -
ANNEX 11
9.        Handliq& Cost Savings.  The project includes improvements in the
rail reception areas in some grain ports, efficient grain loading and un-
loading facilities in the project silos and rail car modifications to
facilitate the loading and unloading of grain. These improvements would
substantially reduce the cost of handling grain using the project silos.
10.       The savings would materialize for grain being unloaded at the
project silos from the trucks loaded at the project silos on the rail
cars and unloaded at the grain ports. Unloading savings at ports would
occur only at those included in the project.
11.       Individual components of grain handling costs with and without
the project are shown in Table 7. It is estimated that the savings for
grain shipped via ports with proposed improvements would be about US$1.42
per m ton, while the savings for the ports without such improvements would
be US$1.15 per m ton.
12.       Loading at the farm is considered a part of the production cost
and is not affected by the project. "Without project" costs are based on
the updated estimates for existing inland silos prepared by the consult-
ants and reviewed by the Bank/FAO mission. "With project" costs are also
based on the consultant estimates but have been revised and updated by the
Bank mission to reflect the recommended silo size and design.
13.       Handling cost savings for different project silo-port pairs are
summarized in Table 8. They are expected to total US$6.9 million at full
development.
14.       Waiting Time Savings.  Waiting costs are those incurred when rail
cars must wait to load or unload grain. At present, over 80% of a typical
grain car cycle time represents waiting. The project would provide for
all-grain train loads operating on a constant schedule and benefitting,
in some ports, from faster grain unloading facilities. The reduction in
waiting time would vary for different project silos, depending on which
ports are used and would range from five to seven days per cycle time, as
shown in Table 9. The table shows waiting and grain handling time only.
The actual travel time would vary depending on distance and average running
speeds. For a typical 400-km run, the travel time averages 12 hours, indi-
cating a total grain cycle time of approximately eight days.
15.       Estimates of existing grain car utilization were obtained by the
Bank mission directly from the rail lines engaged in grain transport. The
effects of the project on individual segments of grain car cycle time are
based on the availability and design of the proposed improvements and on
the assumed use of uniform grain trains operating on a constant schedule.
Detailed estimates of waiting time savings for the individual project
silo-port pairs and for the entire project silo system are shown in
Table 10. The aggregate annual system waiting cost savings at full devel-
opment are estimated at US$3.5 million.



- 98 -
ANNEX 11
16.       According to the FA, the cost of an imported grain car, with a
useful life of 25 years, is US$45,000. Based on the actual grain cars
unloaded at the ports in 1977, t:he average carload is 46.75 m tons. Hence,
the time cost of a grain car is estimated at US$0.0044 per m ton-hour.
US$45,)00                     = US$0.0044/m ton-hour.
25 yrs x 365 days x 24 hrs x 46.75 m tons
Project Costs
17.       Investment Costs.  Project investment costs adjusted for financial
transfers (taxes and duties) total US$167.6 million, would be distributed
over the 1978-82 period as follows:
Amount
Year                        (US$ million)
1978                             2.85
1979                            27.16
1980                            71.58
1981                            53.47
1982                            12.57
Total                          167.63
18.       All direct imports would be on behalf of the Government and,
therefore, exempt from duties, but duties averaging 20% would have to be
paid on indirect imports. In addition, construction cost estimates of
project silos include a value added tax (VAT), which is collected at
each stage of the business cycle from importer or manufacturer of a
product to the final user. The present VAT rate is 16%. No VAT adjust-
ments were made for the railroad-financed improvements and project-related
services. The economic cost adjustment for the physical contingencies
has been computed using the ratio of adjusted financial cost to silo and
rail costs.
19.       Project maintenance and operation costs are estimated at US$5.7
million annually during the first 10 years, rising to US$7.2 million annually
for the second half of the project's useful life.
20.       It is assumed that all grain from the project silos would be exported
and that grain which is held in storage would receive a higher FOB value than
that grain sold at harvest time. The amount of working capital required for
the purchase of that grain held in storage is estimated to be about US$54.5
million based on the FOB value at harvest time. This working capital require-
ment is charged to the project as a cost during the initial years of silo
operation and is recovered at the end of the project life.



- 99 -
ANNEX 11
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
21.       The economic rate of return on the proposed grain silo project will
be 20%. Implementation of the proposed grain silo system would at full develop-
ment, generate an annual benefit flow to the country of US$71.0 million,
consisting of the following benefit streams:
US$ Million
Improved export prices                          41.2
Grain loss savings                              16.6
Distribution cost savings:                      13.2
Handling  - 6.90
Transport - 2.03
Waiting   - 3.49
Interest  - 0.77
Total:           71.0
22.       Project Life.  The project construction period is scheduled for
1978-1982 and the economic life of the completed project is assumed to be
20 years starting in 1983. Full utilization of the project's facilities
is expected to be reached in the third year of operation. Salvage cost
estimates were made for project evaluation of the project.
23.       Sensitivity Analysis.  The economic rate of return has been sub-
jected to four specific sensitivity tests, including project cost overruns,
reduced capacity utilization, lower grain prices and project schedule
slippage. The effect of the first three events on the rate of return,
assuming changes of 10 and 20%, are shown below.
Percent change from
original estimate
10%         20%
Project cost overruns                          19           17
Reduced capacity utilization                   18           16
Lower grain prices                             19           17
24.       The effect of a two-year slippage in project schedule would reduce
the economic rate of return from 20% to 15%.
October 31, 1977



- 100 -
ANNEX 11
Table 1
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Higher Export Price Benefits (Computations)
Project Silo Grain Stored to Benefit from Higher Export Prices
Tons Stored per           Tons Stored
Total Tons per      Annum for Later       per Annum for Later
Silo per Annum       Sale per Silo       Sales per Silo Project
Wheat                    50,000              25,000                   500,000
Sorghum                 100,000              50,000                1,000,000
Corn                     62,500              31,250                   625,000
Oilseeds                 37,500              18,750                   375,000
Total:      250,000             125,000                 2,500_000
Estimates of Higher Export Price Benefits
Tons Stored per Average Annual FOB        FOB Export Price   Export
Annum for Later  Price River Ports         Differential       Price
Sale per Project in 1980-85 US$/Ton   %    (US$/Ton)          Benefits
Wheat               500,000             149.1         15        22.36       11,180,000
Sorghum          1,000,000               88.1        10          8.81        8,810,000
Corn                625,000             112.4         10        11.24        7,025,000
Oilseeds            375,000             252.7         15        37.90       14,211,500
Total:                                                          41,226,500
July 29, 1977



- 101 -
ANNEX 11
Table 2
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Loss Computations
Grain Lost Without Project
Annual Throughput (Tons)   Tons Subjact    Tons Lost Without
Silo        Project      to Loss (70%)    Project (7.5%)
Corn                 62,500      1,250,000          875,000           65,625
Sorghum             100,000      2,000,000       1,400,000           105,000
Total:       162,500      3,250,000       2,275,000           170,625
Value of Grain Loss Savings
Tons Lost         Average Annual per       Grain Loss
Without Project     Ton FOB Price 1980-85     Savings
------------- (Us$)-
Corn                     65,625                112.43             7,378,219
Sorghum                 105,000                 88.13             9,253,650
Total:           170,625                                 16,631,869
July 29, 1977



- 102 -
ANNEX 11
Table 3
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rail Distances Between Project Silos and
Nearest Grain Ports
Silo Location             Region            Port                 Rail Distance
(km)
Tostado                     30        Santa Fe                        338
La Rubia                    30        Rosario                         364
San Francisco               28        Rosario                         209
Las Rosas                   26        Rosario                         116
Firmat                      22        Rosario                         112
La Carlota                  20        V. Constitucion                 300
Leones                       25       V. Constitucion                  50
Pergamino                   23        Buenos Aires                    228
Laboulaye                   21        V. Constitucion                 229
Gral. Villegas              19        Rosario                         360
El Porvenir                 19        Rosario                         280
Gral. Pico                  10        Bahia Blanca                    401
Rivadavia                   11        Bahia Blanca                    475
Catrilo                     11        Bahia Blanca                    326
Pehuajo                     11        Bahia Blanca                    442
Bolivar                     12        Buenos Aires                    336
Realico                     12        Buenos Aires                    213
French                      12        Buenos Aires                    265
Nogoya                      35        Diamante                        110
Gral. Pinedo                31        Santa Fe                        638
January 19, 1978



- 103 -
ANNEX 1i1
Table 4
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Transport Cost Savings Estimates for
Project Silo System
Grain
Project  Handled by    Distance    Transport          Total         Port
Silos in   Project       to Nearest    Savings       Transport         of
Region   Region      Silos       Grain Port    per Ton    Cost Savings   Shipment
('000 tons)      (Km)                    (US$ '000)
30        1         250           338            0.47          117.5       Santa Fe
30        1         250           364            0.51          127.5       Rosario
28        1         250           209            0.29           72.5       Rosario
26        1         250           116            0.16           40.0       Rosario
22        1         250           112            0.16           40.0       Rosario
20        1         250           300            0.42          105.0       V. Constitucion
25        1         250            50            0.07           17.5       V. Constitucion
23        1         250           228           0.32            80.0       Buenos Aires
21        1         250           229            0.32           80.0       V. Constitucion
19        2         500           320            0.45          225.0       Rosario
10        1         250           401            0.56          140.0       Bahia Blanca
11        3         750           414            0.58          435.0       Bahia Blanca
12        3         750           271            0.38          285.0       Buenos Aires
35        1         250           110            0.16           40.0       Diamante
31        1         250           638            0.89          222.5       Santa Fe
Total:      20      5,000                                      2,027.5
July 12, 1977



- 104 -
ANNEX 11
Table 5
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Time Savings for Interest Cost Savings Estimates
Project Silo-Port Pair               Time Saved Between Silos and Ports With:
Silos in        Grain                 All               Some              No
Region         Port              Improvements    Improvements    Improvements
------------------ (Hours) -----------------
30      Santa Fe                      -                 -               51
30      Rosario                     102                 -                -
28      Rosario                     102                 -                -
26      Rosario                     102                 -                -
22      Rosario                     102                 -                -
20      V. Constitucion               -                78                -
25      V. Constitucion               -                78                -
23      Buenos Aires                  -                78                -
21      V. Constitucion               -                78                -
19      Rosario                     102                 -                -
10      Bahia Blanca                102
11      Bahia Blanca                102                 -
12      Buenos Aires                  -                78                -
35      Diamante                                        -               51
31      Santa Fe                                                        51
July 29, 1977



- 105 -
ANNEX 11
Table 6
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Interest Cost Savings Estimates for Project Silo System
Grain
Project Silos      Handled by       Interest Cost       Interest Cost
Region       in Region      Project Silos         Savings             Savings
('000 Tons)         ($/Ton)           (US$ '000)
30            1                250               0.092                23.0
30            1                250               0.183               45.8
28            1                250               0.183                45.8
26            1                250               0.183               45.8
22            1                250               0.183               45.8
20            1                250               0.140               35.0
25            1                250               0.140               35.0
23            1                250               0.140               35.0
21            1                250               0.140               35.0
19            2                500               0.183               91.5
10            1                250               0.183               45.8
11            3                750               0.183              137.2
12            3                750               0.140              105.0
35            1                250               0.092               23.0
31            1                250               0.092               23.0
Total:         20              5,000                                  771.7
July 29, 1977



- 106 -
ANNEX 11
Table 7
ARGENTNIA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Handling Costs and Cost Savings
(US$/Ton)
Without       With        Handling Cost
Project      Project        Savings
Load at Farm                          -            -               _
Unload at Silo                        1.212         0.692          0.520
Load at Silo                          1.192        0.558           0.634
Unload at Port                        1.083        0.813           0.270
Total for Ports with Improvements   3.487          2.063           1.424
Total for Ports without
Improvements                        3.487        2.333           1.154
Source: Mission Estimates.
July 29, 1977



- 107 -
ANNEX 11
Table 8
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Handling Cost Savings Estimates for Project Silo System
Grain
Project Silos   Handled by         Handling        Handling       Port of
Region      in Region    Project Silos  Cost Savings   Cost Savings   Shipment
('000 Tons)    (US$/Ton)        (US$ '000)
30            1              250              1.15           287.5    Santa Fe
30            1              250              1.42           355.0    Rosario
28            1              250              1.42           355.0    Rosario
26            1              250              1.42           355.0    Rosario
22            1              250              1.42           355.0    Rosario
20            1              250              1.42           355.0    V. Constitucion
25            1              250              1.42           355.0    V. Constitucion
23            1              250              1.42           355.0    Buenos Aires
21            1              250              1.42           355.0    V. Constitucion
19            2              500              1.42           710.0    Rosario
10            1              250              1.42           355.0    Bahia Blanca
11            3              750              1.42         1,065.0    Bahia Blanca
12            3              750              1.42         1,065.0    Buenos Aires
35            1              250              1.15           287.5    Diamante
31            1              250              1.15           287.5    Santa Fe
Total:    20             5,000                           6,897.5
July 29, 1977



- 108 -
ANNEX 11
Table 9
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Car Cycle Time in Hours
Between Project Silos and Ports
Without        With All         With Some         With No
Activity               Project      Improvements    Improvements    Improvements
----------------------------- (Hours) -----------------
Waiting to Load at Inland
Silo                        23
Loading at Inland Silo
Including Maneuvering        1             0.2               0.2              0.2
Travel Time Silo - Port        Varies         Varies           Varies           Varies
Time to Pick Up Cars at
Inland Silos on Way to
Port                         24             -                -                -
Waiting to Unload at Port
Including Classification,
Maneuvering, etc.            72             3               24               48
Unloading at Port               6             0.5              0.5              3
Return to Yard and Wait
for Reassignment            48             -                -                 -
Travel Time Yard - Silo        varies        varies            varies           varies
Total Wait Hours:          167             3                24              48
Total Wait Days:              7            0                1                2
July 29, 1977



ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Waiting Cost Savings Estimates for Project Silo System
Project          Grain           Waiting Time        Waiting        Value of
Silos in      Handled by      Without    With         Time      Waiting Time Savings
Region    Region      Project Silos   Project   Project    Savings    Per Ton  Per Region   Port of Shipment
('000 tons)    ----- (hrs) -----         (hrs)      (US$)   (US$ '000)
30         1             250            174         48         126         0.55       137.5      Santa Fe
30         1             250            174          0         174         0.77       192.5      Rosario
28         1             250            174          0         174         0.77       192.5      Rosario
26         1             250            174          0         174         0.77       192.5      Rosario
22         1             250            174          0         174         0.77       192.5      Rosario
20         1             250            174         24         150         0.66       165.0      V. Constitution
25         1             250            174         24         150         0.66       165.0      V. Constitucion         H
23         1             250            174         24         150         0.66       165.0      Buenos Aires
21         1             250            174         24         150         0.66       165.0      V. Constitucion
19         2             500            174          0         174         0.77       385.0      Rosario
10         1             250            174          0         174         0.77       192.5      Bahia Blanca
11         3             750            174          0         174         0.77       577.5      Bahia Blanca
12         3             750            174         24         150         0.66       495.0      Buenos Aires
35         1             250            174         48         126         0.55       137.5      Diamante
31         1             250            174         48         126         0.55       137.5      Santa Fe
Total:       20          5,000                                                        3,492.5
July 12, 1977                                                                                                        > 
X 



- 110 -
ANNEX 12
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Al.  FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program:  (a) Identification Report No.
3/76 AR6.6 of January L9, 1976; (b) Preparation Report No. 3/77
AR6.7 of February 1, 1977; and (c) Preparation Working Notes of
April 19, 1977.
A2.  Estudio de Factibilidad Para un Plan Nacional de Almacenamiento y
Conservacion de Granos, 3 vols, prepared for the Grain Board
by Direccion General de Investigacion y Desarrollo (DIGID) of the
Ministerio de Defensa, 1977.
A3.  Grain Board.  Documents Stating Objectives, Functions, Organization
and Duties of Personnel, 1977.
A4.  Proyecto de Almacenamiento de Granos, Junta Nacional de Granos,
1977.
B.   Selected Working Papers Prepared by Bank Mission
B1. Production, Exports and Consumption
B2.  Grain Marketing System
B3.  Detailed Description and Costs of Project Storage Requirements
B4.  Training Program for Project Silo Managers and Supporting Staff
B5.  World Demand for Grain
B6.  Direccion Nacional de Construccion de Elevadores de Granos
B7.  Construction Scheduling and Monitoring of Project Silos
B8.  Detailed Description and Costs of Railway Components of Project
B9.  Grain Port Facilities in Argentina
B1O. Rational for Estimate on Open Storage Losses
B11. Calculation of Potential Additional Income to Producers as a Result
of the Project Silos
B12. Grain Prices and Tariffs
B13. Banco de la Nacion Argentina: Installed Capacity of Grain Storage
Facilities Financed, 1965-77
January 17, 1978



if;     i  Itt,:    MPAao¶va~LA~ l_  R                            M                                              ARGENTINA                                         VP'
,/f > ,    x>AtAiVtS't }  rf       \<                        GRAIN  STORAGE  PROJECT                                                               A
=                   I                                                                          P  00000 :    J    QwCno I J Cotse Ii
APPC-pC  GR
1' '      P I    .   / o   4                   CGmpoo Ggilp IS1 j Vl                                         Loginot o V.   h
I  -v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.      d 
*  '-  V                         L.loV,aiv               Sorrapv1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1.  l,.l
T.    x                    T. T--                                         or no                                      I
PM Pooi      osool}                                     /        >                           4
C.   -                        0                                             E                             CaPeo-                              , 
/   Coom=rc66    f  afoucums ro    Cldorrr                                                        p.l.  An al          Paranoia,>i
fLoRlolo ~ ~    ~     5'                                                 Cloinrl                                                                        Corri >  ; fs:d   V r=gano
Rrras Ci    ha   rod .                                            C                k7
01                         Sonhioga CCSd.l                                                                                               It. 
p                               t         T < . lP Vr  fe Eser                                                nibo irao         3 
A 1      Gr                         .1 R-                                                                                   2C-r
45 ~      ~      j          t        _                                                                                      .f riarsanarrs.o  -k  LTsransr;dlUu
11t   Acaro=s    R,u:rto+                                            pX5o5   >                  SARIO                    pp
<. O rSr    i 4  OrOor0,a    ert;prdlpa atzgv 
?Zrooed Pros.asaSio SPte FMarll                                                                                                                                         V    I 
ies-                    S.p.                                 AL C  I                                                                         b<                            9.  t  , CZ  
To  "p   D- loTr. ro
A6-
a RPio-1o
38   r/                                                                         t    SANXTA /      S
36'                                                                                                                                                                                         $r
A  'psdProles                                                                                                                                           T Ste
KlLMTR5 o <,0- p   Ji  7   5           4-              VS  Roa p
M-R    soord s  (o Glal  T      &~P,   D.bvrl-                                                        .          ria.a....do
010mm                               6432' 2                                                                        (                                      5        
M IjorGra,Po-tsAp.S I                       J                                                                                                    P     d
00000  PanoailC    0       d     01P[.V
10 10      20 -             2'. IPACadqu-'i'onaco
Ki LCIAFT-RS                .7P.                                                                                   'or   0dalJrjoC
PS  I ~~~.I'     ~        ~        ~          ~~                        RO-cPRICC
rlriran    R~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ 
C6                                                           Poo       6sS'anNc
iv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                              8



