Document of
I"ILE COP Y                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2219-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
February 7, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



January 1978
Currency Unit     -      Argentine Pesos ($a)
US$1              =      $a600
$al               =      US$0.00167
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA - GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Argentine Republic
Beneficiary:              Junta Nacional de Granos (Grain Board)
Amount:                   US$105 million
Terms:                    Fifteen years, including three years grace, at 7.45%
per annum interest rate.
Relending Terms:          The Government would relend US$102.3 million to the
Grain Board at the same term and interest rate as
the Bank loan.
Project Description:      The project would help increase exports of grain and
obtain better export prices by constructing up-country
grain storage and conditioning facilities and by
improving transport facilities. The project consists
of constructing 20 silos with an average capacity of
100,000 m tons, each equipped with drying, cleaning
and fumigating facilities; minor improvements of rail
reception facilities at major ports; and modification
of 2,000 boxcars for effective grain transport.
Through technical assistance, the project will
improve the Grain Board's computerized inventory
control system and its capabilities for inspection
and supervision of primary silos. Also included are
a program for training Grain Board staff to operate
project silos and pilot dredging for the Port of
Bahia Blanca to determine the feasibility of deepening
the port access channel. There are no special risks,
although inefficient silo management and lower grain
production levels than forecast could cause lower
volumes of grain to pass through the silos and conse-
quently result in smaller than projected benefits.
Estimated Cost:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
----- (US$ Million) -----
Silos                   107.4      64.8       172.2
Railway Improvements       9.6      5.1        14.7
Management Proce-
dures and Training      0.7       0.4         1.1
Pilot Dredging             0.9      2.4         3.3
Contingencies             56.4     32.3        88.7
Total Project
Cost:                 175.0    105.0        280.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Financing Plan:                                   Railways and   Grain
Government    Board    IBRD   Total
…-------    (US$ Million)…-----------
Silos, Civil Works                  -         93.2    39.5   132.7
Silos, Mechanical/
Electrical Equipment             -         60.0    50.3   110.3
Consultants for Engineering
and Supervision Studies,
Training and Pilot Dredging        0.6         7.3      6.1    14.0
Computer Equipment                  -           -       0.5      0.5
Railway Improvements              13.2         0.3      7.3    20.8
Pilot Dredging                     0.4          -       1.3      1.7
Total:                       14.2       160.8   105.0   280.0
Percent of Total             5           58      37      100
Estimated
Disbursement:                      Bank FY      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
…----------(US$ Million)…------------
Annual                         3.7    19.0    40.7    32.7        8.9
Cumulative                     3.7    22.7    63.4    96.1   105.0
Rate of Return:      20%
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 1749b-AR, dated January 26, 1978.



- 3 -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$105.0 million to help
finance a Grain Storage Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at 7.45% per annum. All proceeds
of the loan, except for US$2.7 million to the Secretaria de Estado de Intereses
Maritimos (SEIM) for the Pilot Dredging of the outer channel at Bahia Blanca,
would be relent to the Grain Board on the same term and interest rate as the
proposed Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Argentina:  Reconstruction and Development" (No.
1645-AR) dated August 31, 1977 was distributed to the Executive Directors.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is endowed with a favorable human and natural resource
base and enjoys a relatively high GNP per capita, estimated at about US$1,550
in 1976. However, the country's income level masks deep-seated structural
imbalances in the economy, manifested in its inability to attain stable growth.
During most of the post-World War II period high levels of protection and
domestic market limitations contributed to a generally high-cost industrial
structure which did not reflect relative prices and factor scarcities within
the domestic economy. Lacking adequate incentives, the agricultural sector
produced and exported below its potential. Ensuing social and economic
tensions made it difficult to pursue rational economic policies and resulted
in a "stop-go" pattern of growth and political instability.
4.        The Government which took office in March 1976 faced an economic and
financial chaos unparallelled in Argentina's history. Following months of
political violence and escalating terrorism, the public administration had
ceased to function. Along with the explosive acceleration in the rate of
inflation, the virtually complete erosion of the country's creditworthiness
and a sharp decline in the level of economic activity, there had been a
profound deterioration of key institutions, productive capacity, and support-
ing infrastructure. The military takeover was for most part well received by
the population as it meant relief from the tension and chaos of the previous
months. The new Government rapidly stabilized the political situation and



- 4 -
introduced major changes in fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies to
break inflationary expectations and to shore up the country's precarious
external financial position.
Recent Performance
5.        The Government has made considerable progress in stabilizing the
economy. A restrictive wage policy, combined with improved fiscal and mone-
tary management, reduced the rate of inflation from 740% during the last year
of the previous administration to about 150% in 1977. Rationalization of
exchange rate and trade policies resulted in a sharp improvement in the
1976 and 1977 balance of payments as the current account balances registered a
US$1.9 billion and US$2.7 billion improvement, respectively, over the 1975
level. Increased confidence in the peso and the adoption of more realistic
rates of interest induced substantial repatriation of private capital. During
1976 the Government achieved a significant improvement in the external debt
structure through the substitution of short-term loans due in the last quarter
of 1976 by new loans with more favorable maturities. Despite large repayment
of short-term debt, gross international reserves increased by almost US$1.2
billion in 1976. Strong export performance and continued capital inflow
resulted in an additional increase of about US$1.9 billion in 1977. Gross and
net reserves reached US$3.5 billion and US$1.6 billion, respectively, by the
end of 1977.
6.        Even though a considerable reduction in the rate of price increases
has been achieved, inflation remains the single most difficult problem faced
by the Government. Monthly rates of increase in the cost of living index
in the first quarter of 1977 averaged 10.1% as compared to 7.1% during the
last quarter of 1976, as the result of upward adjustment of real prices of
goods and services produced by the public sector and of unusually large
increases in the price of beef and some other agricultural products which
weigh heavily in the consumer price index. In mid-March as it became apparent
that the stabilization program was not having the desired effect, a 120 day
period of price restraint was put into effect. The termination of price
restraints in July, however, combined with acceleration in the growth of money
supply during the second quarter of 1977 led to a new surge in inflation,
which averaged 10.7% between the months of August and October but fell to an
average of 8% for the last two months of 1977.
7.        In order to control the continued high rate of inflation, a number
of measures were introduced in mid-1977, which aimed at slowing the growth of
the monetary aggregates. More restrictive limits were established on Central
Bank credit to the Treasury, special Central Bank rediscounts were curtailed,
and interest rates were freed and became positive in real terms. The Government
totally eliminated foreign borrowings under the system of "swaps" - guarantees
of short-term foreign loans at a subsidized forward exchange rate - which had
been a major factor in monetary expansion during 1975 and 1976. Denational-
ization of the banking system and a fractional reserve system with new regula-
tions governing the operations of banks and other financial intermediaries
were introduced in May 1977. These measures aimed at increasing the efficiency
of the financial system by stimulating competition between private financial
institutions and at strengthening the instruments of monetary policy. Controls



- 5 -
were established to reduce capital inflows of a speculative short-term nature
and to monitor external indebtedness of the public sector, especially, of the
state enterprises. Despite a rapid accumulation of foreign exchange reserves,
these measures were successful in sharply reducing growth of money supply from
a peak of 20% in June to 5.7% in October. The full impact of the reduced rate
of growth of the money supply on the rate of inflation should be felt in the
first semester of 1978.
8.        During the two years prior to the change of Government in March 1976,
public finances in Argentina had deteriorated to an alarming extent and had
become a major factor contributing to the hyperinflation of early 1976.
Declining tax collections in real terms, sharply increased expenditures due to
massive wage settlements and expanded public sector employment doubled the
Treasury deficit as a share of GDP. Adjustments in tariffs of public enter-
prises lagged behind inflation and the consequent serious deterioration in
the financial position of a number of important enterprises resulted in
increased Treasury transfers to these entities. The present Government
introduced a number of special emergency taxes and drastically cut current
expenditures by allowing real wages of public sector employees to decline
sharply. The Treasury deficit declined from about 13% of GDP in 1975 to 8% in
1976, 5.5% in the first semester of 1977 and 2.5% in the second semester.
The authorities made a major effort to finance the deficit through the sale of
high-yielding Treasury bills and indexed bonds. Central Bank financing of the
Treasury deficit declined sharply in real terms and fell as a share of total
financing requirements from 70% in 1975 to 48% in 1976, but is estimated to
have risen to 80% in 1977 as a result of declining yields on government bonds
relative to savings instruments offered by the private sector.
9.        The 1978 budget calls for a further reduction in the Treasury
deficit to 1% of GDP. This amount is to be financed entirely through the
issue of Treasury bills and indexed bonds and would therefore preclude Treasury
recourse to Central Bank credit. Reduction of the Treasury deficit and the
monetary and balance-of-payments programs adopted by the Government are
expected to result in a further reduction of inflation in 1978. In order
to strenthen the finances of the state enterprises, the Government implemented
a program of periodic rate adjustments which, since mid-1976, has provided
tariff increases in real terms for a number of important state enterprises.
Further progress in reduction of Central Government transfers to state enter-
prises is assumed in the 1978 Budget, and the authorities are continuing
periodic tariff adjustments this year. The Government's program is being
monitored by the IMF under the current 1977-78 Standby Agreement which was
approved by the Board of Directors of the Fund on September 16, 1977; the
fiscal, monetary and balance-of-payments performance is well within the
ceilings specified under this Agreement.
10.       During 1975 and early 1976, there was an increasingly sharp contrac-
tion in the level of economic activity. As the economic situation deteriorated,
private investment declined precipitously. The sharpest decline in investment
was registered in the first quarter of 1976 as inflation accelerated and
default on the country's external debt appeared imminent. The momentum of the
recession continued into the second quarter of 1976 as measures required to



- 6 -
slow inflation further reduced aggregate demand and growth. Stocks of indus-
trial products, which had been accumulated for speculative reasons during 1975
and early 1976, were brought to market as the private sector shifted out of
r-al g^cods into financial assets.  While this drawdown of stocks reflected a
return of confidence in economic management and a response to the sharp
increase in real interest rates, it also accentuated the decline in industrial
production.
11.       Since June 1976, the situation has improved significantly as a
result of a turnaround in private investment and sharply expanded exports.
Responding to improved prices, agricultural production grew by 3.5% during
1976 and 11.6% during the first semester of 1977. The 1976/77 grain crop is
estimated at a record 27 million tons. The livestock sector expanded strongly.
Domestic consumption of beef remained buoyant and the volume of beef exports
doubled following the opening of new markets. Petroleum output increased
substantially from the second quarter of 1976 on as a result of a change in
the management of YPF, the state-owned oil company, and the introduction of
measures to expand secondary recovery. Manufacturing activity fell by 4.5% in
1976 mainly as a result of the decline in real wages, but significant recovery
took place in major branches of industry during 1977. Overall growth of GDP
in the first quarter of 1977 was 1.8%. Preliminary information for the second
and third quarters of 1977 indicates recovery on all fronts. Overall growth
of GDP in 1977 is estimated to be around 4.5%.
12.       Reflecting the decline in overall output, unemployment had risen from
2.7% to 4.9% in the last six months of the previous administration. The new
Government was able to stem the tide through a combination of restrictive wage
policies and arrangements with the private sector to retain employees. The
new Government even succeeded in lowering the unemployment rate to 4.1% at the
end of 1976, a major achievement in view of the continuing decline in overall
output, and was thus able to spread the costs of the stabilization program more
evenly than is usual in situations of this type. The rapid recovery in 1977
reduced unemployment even further to 2.2% in October 1977 which actually
indicates some scarcity of both skilled and unskilled labor. The improving
employment situation also had a positive impact on private sector wages as the
more dynamic branches attracted personnel from the still stagnating industries
and the public sector. Indications are that average real wages had risen by
over 15% between October 1976 and July 1977, although they were still below
previous levels. To avoid a continued exodus of public sector employees, the
authorities decided in December 1977 to pay wage increases in line with
productivity increases in the public enterprises. This should help narrow the
wage gap in the near future.
Development Strategy and Prospects
13.       The immediate objectives of the Government's economic program
were achieved with a large measure of success in 1976, and since then the
Government has turned its attention more to its longer-term development
objectives. In contrast to the protectionist, import-substituting industrial
development strategy which prevailed during most of the post-World War II
period, the present authorities are pursuing an export-oriented growth strategy.



Through a combination of trade and internal pricing policies the internal
terms of trade have been shifted in favor of agriculture and the effective
exchange rate for agricultural exports has improved. Import duties on indus-
trial products were reduced so as to align the internal price structure with
international levels, thereby encouraging greater efficiency and increased use
of Argentina's export potential. A unified exchange rate of a "gliding
parity" type was introduced in November 1976, whereby continuous adjustments
to compensate the difference between domestic and international inflation have
taken place. To attract external capital and technology, a very liberal
foreign investment law was promulgated.
14.       In order to strengthen domestic resource mobilization and to
rationalize public sector finances, a reform of the financial and fiscal
systems has been undertaken. Special emphasis has been placed on restoring
the financial viability of provincial governments and state enterprises which
in recent years accounted for much of the fiscal deficit. Twenty-six private
enterprises acquired by previous administrations are to be returned to private
ownership or to be liquidated. During 1977 ambitious cost cutting measures
were implemented by the Argentine Railways which helped to reduce significantly
their large deficit. Additional taxes were introduced at the national level
and important improvements in tax administration were carried out. A new
group was created in the Ministry of Economy to rationalize public sector
investment planning and to develop a medium-term public investment program.
Taken in their entirety, the measures adopted by the new Government represent
a major shift in Argentine development strategy which, when fully implemented,
should lay the foundation for strong self-sustained growth in the future.
15.       Over the longer term, the prospects for strong growth of the Argentine
economy are favorable. In the immediate future, growth rates are likely to be
moderate, due to the high priority which the Government has placed on the
reduction of inflation. Price and trade policies aimed at opening the economy
are expected to bring about a shift in the structure of industry and agricul-
ture, which is needed to increase economic efficiency and stimulate growth.
The levels of international trade, which have been low for an economy of
Argentina's resource endowment and size, are expected to expand signifi-
cantly as the economy adjusts to a new price structure and set of investment
incentives. It will, however, take a number of years and continuing large
capital inflows to carry out these tasks, partly because of their inherent
complexity and partly because public support needed to maintain the effort can
be sustained only if social costs of the adjustment process are held within
tolerable limits. The inflows of medium- and long-term capital from both
private and official sources will, in addition to their support of moderniza-
tion of infrastructure and productive capacity, play essential roles in this
process.
16.       Export prospects for the longer term appear to be excellent and
assuming continued strong beef exports and substantial increases in the
volume of grain exports, total export earnings should increase by an average
of 7% annually in real terms through 1980. Roughly two-thirds of that increase
would be generated by agriculture and about one-third by the industrial sector.
Maintenance of a 5% to 6% growth rate of GDP through 1980 and beyond will



- 8 -
require imports to increase at 10% annually. This pattern of growth of
imports and exports would permit the country to maintain a favorable trade
surplus over the medium term. This surplus would be adequate to cover factor
services and still yield a modest but declining current account surplus throlwh
1980. However, given Argentina's heavy debt service payments, and the need to
continue to improve the structure of its external debt and to rebuild its
international reserves, considerable gross inflows of medium- and long-term
capital will be required, averaging US$1.8 billion annually for the next four
years. The bulk of these capital requirements should be available from
bilateral arrangements, suppliers' credits, world capital markets and direct
private investments. Multilateral sources, however, are expected to play an
important role both by providing capital and by stimulating capital flows from
other sources.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
17.       In March 1976, Argentina was faced with external debt payments
falling due before the end of the year estimated at US$3.7 billion, equiv-
alent to two-fifths of Argentina's total outstanding external debt. Overall
indebtedness included short-, medium- and long-term obligations of the public
sector in the amount of US$5.3 billion, "swaps" of approximately US$1.3 billion,
exchange rate guaranteed imports of roughly US$600 million and miscellaneous
other private debt estimated at US$1.9 billion. Disposable foreign exchange
reserves amounted to only US$23 million. The new administration moved imme-
diately to arrange short-term loans with commercial banks. It obtained a
standby credit from the IMF of about US$300 million of which the first credit
tranche of about US$180 million was used in 1976. The Government secured a
four-year loan of approximately US$970 million from commercial banks in the
U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. These medium-term credits, although needed
to make payments on the previously short-term bank borrowing and rollovers,
strengthened Argentina's foreign exchange position, and contributed to an
improvement in the external debt structure. As a consequence of these trans-
actions and of the favorable performance of the current account of the
balance of payments, Argentina was able to reduce outstanding foreign exchange
guarantees by US$1.5 billion and increase gross foreign exchange reserves
by US$1.2 billion or by more than double the increase in total outstanding and
disbursed external debt in 1976.
18.       Argentina's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed was US$4.2 billion at the end of 1976. Private external debt
amounted to roughly US$2.0 billion. Preliminary estimates show that the
public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding increased only moderately in
1977. External public and total debt service ratios during 1976 were 18% and
32%, respectively. Due to the rapid increase in exports these rates are
expected to have declined to 16% and 25% in 1977. Despite the large gross
borrowings envisaged over the next several years, and continued use of finan-
cial and suppliers' credits, these debt service ratios are expected to decline
to about 13% and 19%, respectively, in the early 1980's, because of the
improvement in the term structure of debt and the expected increase in exports.
Provided the authorities continue to effectively manage the country's external
indebtedness, Argentina should have no difficulty servicing the afore-mentioned
external borrowing required for economic reconstruction and sustained economic
growth.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
19.       Past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic because of periodic
macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory sector policies, along with
delays and problems in complying with specific project conditions. A loan for
an electric transmission and distribution project, approved by the Executive
Directors in September 1976, marked the resumption of lending to Argentina
after a hiatus of over five years. Six loans are now being disbursed. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1977, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       In its lending to Argentina, the Bank is supporting several impor-
tant and related objectives. The first objective is to contribute to the
Government's efforts to diversify and increase Argentina's export capacity and
overall economic efficiency in line with the country's economic resources and
development base. While recent policy changes have provided much of the
initial stimulus, sustained growth will require an expansion of productive
facilities both in the agricultural and industrial sectors. The fourth highway
project approved in March 1977 will support the resumption of economic growth
and the expansion of agricultural export traffic. The industrial credit
project would support the modernization and expansion of efficient industry in
general and potential export industries in particular. The proposed grain
storage project will assist Argentina to export larger quantities of grain in
a more orderly manner throughout the year by introducing large-scale silos in
the grain production areas. Other loans with a direct export orientation,
which we plan to submit to the Executive Directors, include those for agricul-
tural credit, ports and railways.
21.       The second lending objective is institutional development and
policy reform to ensure that investments are made and used efficiently.
Under the industrial credit project, reforms are being implemented so that
BANADE can fulfill more effectively the role of major provider of medium- and
long-term funds to the industrial sector. Under the highway loan, the Bank
has supported efforts to improve the management, planning capabilities, and
operation of the National Highways Authority. Likewise, in the power sector,
the Bank has supported important reforms in the tariff structure and has
assisted in the preparation of a long-overdue national power expansion program
and a national power organization study.  The proposed project includes
training in modern silo operations and improvements in the Grain Board's
inspection and supervision procedures and computerized inventory control
systems. The leasing arrangements for the project silos would enable a
more effective cooperation between the private and public sectors in the
promotion of grain trade.
22.       Thirdly, Bank lending to Argentina is helping to provide essential
long-term external capital when it can be absorbed effectively within the
framework of sound overall financial planning and when capital requirements
exceed availabilities from other external sources. It will take Argentina
some years of successful economic management to regain its position as a



- 10 -
substantial borrower of long-term capital in private markets. In the meantime,
very large amounts of relatively short-term external loans and credits will
have to be repaid. During this period, the Bank would serve as a catalyst to
c4imuiute medium- and long-term lending from other sources as well as to
provide a part of the needed capital inflow. In October 1977, BANADE obtained
through a co-financing arrangement with the Bank-financed industrial credit
project, a US$100 million Eurodollar loan from a group of 36 private banks.
This was the second such loan for Argentina in 1977, following a US$50 million
Eurodollar loan to SEGBA in August.
23.       Finally, the Bank is maintaining a dialogue with the Government
regarding possible Bank assistance in projects that would foster physical in-
tegration between Argentina and its neighboring c5untries, especially Bolivia
and Paraguay. Such projects should serve as a major impetus to the economic
growth of these two relatively poor and landlocked countries. The Bank
project for a gas pipeline between Bolivia and Argentina has been a milestone
in integrating the two economies in the energy field to the benefit of both
countries. Other integration projects are under preparation, notably the
Yacyreta hydroelectric project, which would benefit both Argentina and Paraguay.
IFC Operations
24.       As of December 31, 1977, IFC had made thirteen loans to borrowers
in Argentina totalling US$67.2 million and one equity investment of US$2.0
million, of which US$35.1 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments up to December 31, 1977, is shown in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE GRAIN SUBSECTOR
The Agricultural Sector
25.       The agricultural sector has maintained a share of about 14% of GDP
during the past decade. Excluding the comparatively small contribution of
forestry and fisheries, the total sectoral output is fairly equally divided
between crops and livestock. Agricultural exports made up 79% of total
exports during 1970-76, declining from 83% in 1970 to 74% in 1976. Between
1970 and 1976, the share of grains in total exports grew from 29% to 31%,
meats declined from 21% to 14% and oilseeds products remained constant at 10%.
26.       While the share of the agricultural sector in the labor force
declined from 20% in 1950-54 to 17% in 1970-74, the number of people employed
in the sector has remained stable. According to the 1969 census, 73% of the
farms in Argentina were owner-operated and accounted for almost 90% of the
land in farms. In the Pampas, which produces most of the grains, 56.3% of the
farms were less than 100 ha in size, averaging about 38 ha; 33.2% were between
100 and 500 ha, averaging 225 ha; 5.5% was between 500 ha and 1000 ha, averaging
700 ha and the remaining 5% were large-size farms of over 1000 ha.



- 11 -
27.       Agricultural production in Argentina grew at a rate of 1.8% p.a.
during 1953-77 (crops 2.6% p.a. and livestock 1.4% p.a.). Growth during the
second half of the period was almost double that of the first half mainly as a
result of an improvement in the terms of trade for agriculture, and a more
widespread use of commercial inputs, especially improved seeds and intensified
mechanization. In line with the Government's development strategy (paragraph
13), the economic environment of agriculture is being improved through adjust-
ment in taxation, credit, tariff, marketing and exchange rate policies. The
objectives are to bring farm products and input prices in line with inter-
national levels, and to establish a tax and credit system which will stimulate
improved resource use and output expansion. Over the intermediate term, it is
expected that land use will be intensified in the humid pampas region, which
now accounts for most of the agricultural exports, and that livestock and crop
production in the other areas will be expanded through land and water develop-
ment. The potential is impressive, not only in crops and livestock, but also
in forestry and fisheries.
28.       The Government has made impressive progress in implementing the
new agricultural policy. By the end of 1976, most domestic price controls had
been removed, the state monopoly on grain trading lifted, the system of cattle
slaughter quotas abolished, and the National Meat Board was no longer engaged
in direct selling abroad. Differential exchange rates which discriminated
against agricultural exports were eliminated. The export retention tax for
wheat has been eliminated and the export tax for coarse grains was cut from
40% to 10% and is scheduled to be eliminated in May 1978. To help offset the
revenue shortfall because of the reduction in export taxes, a temporary
sales tax of 4% on agricultural products at point of first sale was introduced
on September 1, 1976. Fifty percent of this sales tax payment is deductible
from income subject to income tax. The provinces are in the process of
revising the land tax to an annual rate of 1% levied on a base of 70% of
current market value. This measure is intended to increase revenues for the
provincial governments while encouraging landowners to use land more inten-
sively.
29.       Substantial progress has been made in shifting from negative interest
rates and administrative rationing of funds to positive rates of interest for
the entire economy, including the rates for agricultural credit. Beginning
in July 1976, the Banco de la Nacion Argentina (BNA), the main source of agri-
culural credit, made production loans available at about 94% (including 17%
emergency tax). Although still negative, this rate was, in real terms, about
double that of the previous two years. BNA opened a credit line for silos,
supported by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), in early 1977 which
now bears a rate of 6.0%, with outstanding principal for semi-annual payments
being adjusted in line with the domestic wholesale price index. Since
June 1977, virtually all institutional lending rates have been positive.
30.       The setting for rapid growth in agricultural production is highly
favorable. Production expansion in the near future is expected to result
from wider use of more advanced techniques, intensification of the cropping
pattern and increase in the productivity of pastures. Nonetheless, farmers
will need time to carry out the planned investments and to organize resource



- 12 -
use. Also, to sustain a high growth rate in agricultural production, farmers
have to be convinced that the present favorable Government policies will be
maintained.
The Grain Subsector
31.       Grain Production.  With the exception of rice, grain production is
heavily concentrated in the Pampas, a fertile plain of some 45 million ha
radiating out to the north, west and south of Buenos Aires. Less than half
of the arable land of the Pampas is under crop production, with the rest
being used to cultivate forage and as pasture for the large cattle population.
32.       The potential for increasing grain production in the Pampas is
substantial; about one-quarter of the land under forage cultivation could
rapidly be converted to grain production, while the use of fertilizers,
agricultural chemicals, improved seed stock and irrigation would result in
significant yield increases. Large tracts of undeveloped land in the peri-
meter of the Pampas could also be converted to grain production by clearing
the scrub and light forest cover. These processes are already underway;
grain production reached 31 million m tons in 1976/77 and is projected to
reach 38 million m tons by 1985, as compared to an average of 23 million m
tons per year during the past decade.
33.       Grain Exports.  Argentina was one of the world's leading exporters
of grains in the years prior to World War II. At the peak, annual average
export reached about 9.8 million m tons and accounted for about 20% of total
quantity of world exports of wheat and 64% of corn. This situation has changed
because of severe fluctuations in production and poor marketing which eroded
the country's reputation as a reliable supplier of grain. During the 70's,
annual grain exports averaged 8.7 million m tons which accounted for only 2.7%
and 9.2%, respectively, of the greatly expanded world trade in wheat and
coarse grains.
34.       The Government is taking vigorous measures to regain Argentina's
role as a major grain exporter. The removal of adverse pricing policies
has already resulted in significant increase in production. Favorable factors
such as the low cost of production owing to the natural fertility of the soil
and the desirable quality of grain, provide Argentina with good prospects for
increasing grain exports, to about 6 million m tons of wheat and 17 million m
tons of corn and sorghum by 1985, to the growing world market, especially in
the developing countries.
35.       Organization and Problems of the Grain Trade.  There are three
distinct operations in the grain marketing structure: (a) the up-country
marketing system, involving the movement of grain from farms to primary silos;
(b) the pricing system, involving the operation of the Grain Exchanges in
Buenos Aires, Rosario and Bahia Blanca; and (c) the export operation, involv-
ing the sales activities and vessel chartering by the grain exporters and the
operation of port elevator facilities. The efficient functioning of all of
these operations is restricted by the shortage of storage facilities in the
production areas. The repeated shifts in grain marketing responsibilities



- 13 -
from private to public sector during the past three decades have discouraged
investment in storage facilities and have prevented the development of an
efficient domestic and export marketing network.
36.       Grain storage capacity at individual farms is limited to about 10%
of annual production because of the high cost of grain conditioning facilities.
Commercial storage, provided by private merchants, cooperatives and the Grain
Board, bring the total storage capacity to about 45% of current annual pro-
duction. This compares unfavorably with Canada and US which have grain
storage capacity equivalent to annual production. The shortage of up-country
silos in Argentina puts pressure on the producer to sell quickly, even at low
prices, to minimize losses due to spoilage, while the primary silo operator
pushes through as much grain as possible to maximize his profits. This
practice in turn puts pressure on the transportation system, the port silos
and finally the exporter to move grain into export markets as rapidly as
possible. In short, the lack of primary storage facilities has prevented
Argentina to offer high quality grain in reliable quantities to the world
market and to obtain stable and, on average, higher prices. Another major
problem of the system is that, because of the weakness of the Grain Board's
inspection and supervision system, producers must sell grain at the terms
dictated.by the primary silo operators who are at times less than fair in
weighing or evaluating grain.
37.       The pricing system is currently using a spot or cash market because
of the shortage of storage facilities and high rates of inflation; the futures
market has been eroded by a number of factors including the lack of storage
facilities as well as the lack of speculative investors and the monopoly
exercised by the Grain Board between 1974 and 1976. A parallel market, which
operates outside of the Grain Exchange, permits the grain merchants to sell
directly to exporters. Export operations are dominated by local and multi-
national grain export firms, with cooperatives and the Grain Board accounting
only for small shares of exports.
38.       Since the liberalization of grain trade in the spring of 1976, the
private sector, aided by an IDB loan, has accelerated the expansion of existing
facilities and the construction of new small-scale silos averaging about
2000 m tons each. Projections are for further construction, including those
under the proposed project, of up to 7 million m tons of primary silo capacity
at a rate of about 700,000 m tons per year. This falls short of the total
demand for additional primary storage capacity estimated to be about 10
million m tons by 1984/85.
39.       Improvements are required in grain transport facilities to provide a
smooth flow of grain and to handle the projected increase in grain production
which will go almost totally into the export market. Insofar as grain exports
are concerned, relatively limited modifications of equipment and rail reception
facilities at the ports would improve matters greatly. The port elevators
also require modernization of outloading equipment. Additional problems are
the shortage of berths for loading intermediate size vessels of up to
40,000 tons, now common in the international grain trade, and the inadequate
depth in the channel for the port of Bahia Blanca, which force fully loaded
intermediate size vessels to wait for favorable tides.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
0.        Following the identification of the project by a Bank mission in
September 1974, the project was prepared by the Grain Board with the assis-
tance of consultants and FAO/CP. It was appraised by a Bank mission which
visited Argentina in April/May 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington
from January 9 to 12, 1978. The Argentine delegation was headed by Mr. Miguel
Iribarne, Director, Ministry of Economy. A supplementary project data sheet
is presented in Annex III. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Argentina,
Grain Storage Project," Report No. 1749b-AR dated January 26, 1978 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Between April/May 1977 and
January 1978, the exchange rate of the Argentine peso changed from 360 to 600
pesos per US dollar.  This change has not affected the cost estimates, the
financing plan nor the rate of return of the project because, under the
"gliding parity" policy adopted by the Argentine Government (paragraph 13),
the devaluation of the Argentine peso has correctly reflected the difference
in domestic and international inflation.
Project Objectives
41.        The objectives of the project are the following:
(a) to reduce grain losses from spoilage and to increase
efficiency of primary silo operations;
(b) to stimulate grain production especially in the
outlying areas of the pampas traditionally used for
pasture;
(c) to reduce the cost of marketing and exporting grain;
(d) to enable grain merchants and exporters to supply
grain reliably to export markets at a more stable and
higher price throughout the year; and
(e) to facilitate access of intermediate size grain
carriers to Bahia Blanca.
Project Description
42.        The project consists of:  (a) construction of 20 large-scale silos
with an average capacity of about 100,000 m tons, each equipped with grain
conditioning facilities, to be located in the grain growing regions with the
greatest storage deficit; (b) construction of railway spurs and minor interline
linkages to facilitate railway transportation; (c) modificationl of 2,000 boxcars
to handle grain efficiently; (d) training of Grain Board staff for country-wide
inspection and supervision of primary silos and for operating project silos;
(e) improvement of Grain Board's computerized inventory control system; and
(f) pilot channel dredging, including hydrographic and oceanographic surveys
and preliminary engineering and feasibility analysis9 for the deepening of the
outer channel at the port of Bahia Blanca.



- 15 -
Cost Estimates
43.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$280.0 million
(including physical and price contingencies), with a foreign exchange compo-
nent of US$105 million, or 37% of total cost. Local and foreign cost esti-
mates are based on mid-1977 prices and exchange rate. The foreign exchange
costs of the silos and railways components are based on the assumption that
domestic contractors would be awarded all of the civil works contracts and
two-thirds of the value of silo equipment contracts. Silo construction costs
include 10% for physical contingencies mainly to provide for extra drainage
and other unforeseen soil mechanics problems; railway improvements include 15%
physical contingencies for additional track work; and the pilot dredging 11%
to allow for unknown site conditions. Costs of local and foreign consultants
for the studies and technical assistance components are based on recent
experience in Argentina and is estimated at an average of US$5,500 per man-
month. Price contingencies for foreign and local costs have been applied at
the following annual rates: civil works, 9% in 1977-79 and 8% thereafter; and
equipment, including engineering and supervision, 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7% there-
after. It is expected that the devaluation of the Argentine currency would
reflect the difference in the inflation rates of the domestic and foreign
currencies.
Financing Plan
44.        The Bank loan would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project. All but US$2.7 million of the loan funds would be relent by Govern-
ment to the Grain Board at the same term and interest rate as the Bank loan
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Grain Board in turn would
onlend a part of the funds to FA, also at the same terms and interest rate as
the Bank loan (Section 2.02(a) of draft Project Agreement). The Government
gave assurances that the Grain Board would be provided with the necessary
funds (estimated at not less than US$160.8 million equivalent) through appro-
priate means, including taxation and export duties on grain, as and when
necessary to cover the local costs of silo construction and technical assis-
tance (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would also
enable FA to appropriate US$13.2 million equivalent to cover the local costs
of the railway improvements (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement
and Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would also
provide SEIM with the necessary funds (estimated at US$1.0 million equivalent)
to cover the local cost component for pilot dredging of the Bahia Blanca port
access channel (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Representatives of the Grain Board held discussions with a large New
York based commercial bank regarding the possibility of a loan of about
US$30 million at medium term to supplement the proposed Bank loan. Such
financing would be in substitution for the borrowings which the Grain Board
would otherwise undertake within Argentina. We have informed the prospective
lender as well as the Grain Board that we would be prepared to recommend to
the Executive Directors to associate the proposed Bank loan with the commercial
bank's loan if this were to result in better terms for the Grain Board than it



- 16 -
could otherwise obtain in international markets. Since the loan funds would
finance local costs during the latter part of the project, the arrangements
for the private cofinancing are not expected to be concluded for some time.
If and when such a cofinancing operation materializes we would return to tf-
Executive Directors with full details regarding the proposed private loan and
appropriate recommendations for amendments to the Bank's Loan Agreement.
Grain Board Organization and Operation
46.       The Grain Board was chartered in the early 1930s to promote produc-
tion of wheat, corn and linseed by offering support prices to farmers.  It
underwent several changes over the years, but its current structure and
functions date essentially from 1963 when it was reorganized and most laws
related to grain marketing were updated. From 1974 to March 1976, the Grain
Board was the sole buyer and exporter of the major grains: wheat, corn,
sorghum and sunflower, and had a price support function for most of the
remaining grains. In March 1976 the grain trade was liberalized and the Grain
Board returned to a price support function as a buyer of last resort. The
main functions of the Grain Board now are to control market transactions of
grain, including direct purchases of grain as necessary to support production
or regulate the market, and to administer the public network of port elevators,
silos and other complementary facilities.
47.       The Grain Board has five managerial divisions and 19 departments,
with the Elevator Operations Division being by far the largest. The latter
administers 28 port elevators and 81 primary silos, and employs about 4,700
persons of the total Grain Board work force of about 6,000. The Grain Board's
financial condition is sound. In accordance with its charter, the Grain Board
is funded by the proceeds from a tax on grain exports of up to 2% on the FOB
values and 1% on the value of the grain processed for domestic consumption.
As a substantial income is currently derived from the fees it charges for
its port elevators, silos and other services, the Grain Board collects tax in
the amount of only 1% on grain exports. This, in addition to its other
income, has placed th Grain Board in a comparatively healthy financial
situation in spite of the inflationary pressure of the recent years. Another
important factor is that the National Department of Grain Elavator Con-
struction (DNCEG) of the Secretariat of Public Works and Transport is funded by
a 1.5% tax on the FOB export value of grain which has enabled it to finance
adequately the construction and repairs of silos owned by the Grain Board.
48.       The Grain Board's accounting system is satisfactory.  In accordance
with Argentine law, accounts are audited by the General Accounting Office of
the Treasury every quarter. The annual audit reports would be sent to the
Bank within four months of the close of the Grain Board's fiscal year.  The
Grain Board would maintain separate accounts for the proposed project.
49.       A proposal to establish a Grain Elevator Company (SAE), which
would consist of the Elevator Operations Division of the Grain Board and the
DNCEG, is being considered by the Government but it is unlikely that an early
decision would be taken. The purpose of the SAE would be to construct and



- 17 -
operate grain elevators in the ports as well as in the production areas. If
such a decision were ever taken, SAE would be responsible for the proposed
project; we would then present full details regarding its operating procedures,
statutes and staffing to the Executive Directors together with appropriate
recommendations for amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements.
Project Execution
50.       Silo Location.  The proposed sites for the project silos have been
selected based on the results of a network flow model and of a financial
viability study. The sites are scattered throughout the grain growing regions
with special emphasis on western Buenos Aires Province (Map attached). The
exact location of a number of silo sites has only recently been determined
and is subject to change if the results of the detailed soil studies prove to
be negative. Government would ensure that the Grain Board and FA would
acquire the land needed for proposed silo sites and the railway right-of-way
for access spurs (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Project Organization.  The Government would establish, within the
Grain Board, a Project Committee consisting of representatives from the Grain
Board, DNCEG, FA, Secretariat of Agriculture and the Secretariat of Economic
Programming and Coordination (Sections 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
the chairman would be the Undersecretary of Agriculture. The Project Committee
would be responsible for the execution of silo construction and railway improve-
ments including approval of all expenditures and technical matters. The
Government would establish, under the authority of the Project Committee,
a Project Executing Unit consisting of the staff of DNCEG, the Grain Board and
FA to assist the Project Committee in the day-to-day execution of the project
(Section 3.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement); the chairman of the Project
Executing Unit would be one of the representatives of DNCEG. Both the estab-
lishment of the Project Committee and the Project Executing Unit would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Sectio 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). When the project silos become operational, the Grain Board and FA
would enter into contractual arrangements whereby FA would provide the neces-
sary railway equipment to transport the grain from the project silos, directly
administered by the Grain Board, to the various ports at rates which would
taken into account the transport improvements resulting from the Project
(Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement). With the assistance of consul-
tants, the Grain Board would improve its training program for silo managers
and supporting staff, improve its computerized inventory control system and
strengthen its capability for the inspection and supervision of primary silo
operations. SEIM, with the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the
Bank, would undertake the Pilot Dredging component (Section 3.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
52.       Construction Schedule.  Project silos would be constructed over
three and one half years following a 12-month period (starting from May 1978)
for design, engineering and contractor selection. All project silos would
be operational by November 1982. Most of the railway improvements, including
boxcar alterations, would be carried out during the second year of the project



- 18 -
implementation. The improvements in the Grain Board's inspection and super-
vision procedures and its computerized inventory control system would be
introduced during the second and third years. Training of silo managers would
begin during the third year and continue until the end of the implementation
period. The Pilot Dredging component is scheduled to start in the second half
of 1978 and would require 16 months for completion of the surveys, dredging,
preliminary engineering and feasibility analysis. A further 12 months would
be spent in observing the test channel to support forecasts for maintenance
dredging requirements.
Lease and Sales Contracts
53.       In accordance with the Government's policy to encourage private
enterprise, the Grain Board would attempt to lease, with option to purchase,
or sell project silos to groups qualified to operate silos. Commercial oper-
ators, who have greater experience in operating primary silos, are expected
to be more efficient than the Grain Board in operating the project silos.
In order to let as wide a cross section of the commercial operators as
possible to operate large scale silos, the Grain Board would not lease or sell
more than one project silo to any one lessee or purchaser. Invitations to bid
for the leases would start prior to the completion of the project silos.
Lease contracts, satisfactory to the Bank, would be for one to three years
with an option to purchase the facility (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). In the case of cash sales, the Grain Board would either prepay
the Bank loan component or apply the funds for construction of additional
large scale-silos (Section 4.03(d) of the draft Project Agreement). The
project silos not leased or sold immediately after construction would be
operated by the Grain Board (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
54.       The civil works and the mechanical/electrical equipment for the
project silos would be procured under single contracts for better coordination
and to avoid delays. For the purpose of bid evaluation, however, local manu-
facturers would obtain the 15% margin of preference, or the applicable import
duties, whichever is less, for each of the three equipment categories, i.e.,
mechanical equipment, electrical equipment and auxiliary power station. The
silo contracts would be grouped geographically into contracts of up to five
silos each, in order to permit medium as well as large contractors to bid.
The total value of the contracts for the 20 silos, including contingencies,
would be US$243 million. International Competitive Bidding according to
Bank's Guidelines would be followed for contracts exceeding US$1.0 million
each. Contracts exceeding US$50,000 but less than US$1.0 million, except for
the computer and related equipment which would be purchased under ICB, would
be subject to local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
All other works and goods costing US$50,000 or less would be acquired through
prudent shopping mostly in the domestic market (Schedule lB of the draft
Project Agreement). All consultant services costing over US$100,000 would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank (Section 2.03 of the draft Project
Agreement).



- 19 -
55.       The modification of 2,000 boxcars for more efficient loading and
unloading procedures of grain would be procured by the railways under local
competitive bidding. FA would carry out all other rail improvements by force
account, with assistance from subcontractors (Schedule ID of the draft Project
Agreement).
Disbursement
56.       The Bank would disburse loan funds over a period of about four and
one-half years, as follows:
(a) 37% of total expenditures for civil works for the construction
of silos and mechanical/electrical equipment;
(b) 37% of total expenditures for consultants' services for
engineering, procurement and supervision, inventory control
and staff training;
(c) 37% of total expenditures for rail improvements;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for the purchase of computer
and terminals; and
(e) 71% of total expenditures for consultants' services and civil
works for pilot dredging of Bahia Blanca port access channel.
Disbursements would be made against normal documentation duly certified by the
Grain Board for (a) through (d) and by SEIM for (e) above.
Financial Analysis and Economic Justification
57.       The financial analysis for the operation of the project silos is based
on the assumption that a unit would reach an annual turnover of 2.5 times its
capacity of 100,000 m tons in the third year of operations if leased to the
private sector and 2 times if operated by the Grain Board. A buyer of a silo,
contributing 20% of his own funds as equity and paying 8% interest on the debt
over eight years, would obtain an 18% rate of return on his investment. In
comparison, the Grain Board as operator would obtain a return of only 10% be-
cause of the lower turnover and also because it does not take title to the
stored grain, and consequently would not benefit from the price increases of
the grain. In the case of leasing, the lessee is expected to earn about
US$860,000 (before taxes) per year, after the payment of a lease fee of
US$1.7 million to the Grain Board. In view of the expected low turnover of
grain during the first two years of operations of a new project silo, the
lease fee would be set at about US$500,000 and US$1.3 million for the first
and second years, respectively. The Grain Board as lessor is expected to
obtain a return of 12%. The Grain Board would levy such leasing fees or user
charges on project silos which would result in an annual financial rate of
return of not less than 10% on the capital investment for the project silos
(Section 4.03(c) of the draft Project Agreement).



- 20 -
58.       The economic benefits from the project would consist of (a) reduced
grain losses; (b) reduced transportation costs, including vehicle waiting
time, grain transport and handling costs and interest costs on grain in transit;
and (c) higher average export prices for Argentina if grain is stored over a
period. Overall, the project is expected to strengthen Argentina's balance-
of-payments position through increased grain production and exports and thus
help mitigate one of the major factors of the country's erratic growth pattern
in the past. Also, the project would enable Argentina to export its grain in
a more orderly fashion and thus help smoothen the price fluctuations in the
world market. The average economic rate of return of the Grain Storage
Project is estimated at 20%. Sensitivity analysis on 20% increase in costs,
project slippage of two years, 20% reduced volume of grain going through
silos, and 20% lower prices of grain, taken separately, would drop the rate of
return to a range between 15% and 17%.
59.       The project has no special risks, although inefficient silo manage-
ment and lower grain production levels than forecast could cause lower volumes
of grain to pass through the silos and consequently result in smaller than
projected benefits. The project would not have any adverse impact on the
environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Argentine Republic and the
Bank; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Grain Board; and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness would be the establish-
ment by the Government of the Project Committee and the Project Executing Unit
(Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 7, 1978



ANNEX I
-    -           Page  I  of  4
ARGENTINA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA tTHOU KM2)                              ARGENTINA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      2776.9                                        MOST RECENT
AGRLC.     1782.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE            VENEZUELA      SPAIN           AUSTRALIA **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     560.0*  990.0*   1550.0*/a               1540.0*    1580.0*   3710.0*
…-_-_-_-_-_-_--------
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            20.6       23.7       25.7/a              10.3        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         7.0        8.0        9.0La              11.0        67.0         2.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        42.0        13.0       14.0/8              49.0       105.0         2.o
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          24.9       22.5       21.8                42.1        21.0        20.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU AV)            9.0        8.6        8.9                 8.7         8.8         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         59.4      59.0          .                 48.0        27.9        17 9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        66.0       67.4       68.3                63.8        70.5        72.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.5        1.5        1.5                 2.9         1.4          1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.5        1.4        i.3                 3.4         1.1         2. Q18
URBAN                                  2.6        2.4        2.3                 4.7         2.0         2.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           71.2       77.4       80.0                75.7        59.1        88.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        30.7       29.3       29.0                  ..        27.8        2a.S
15 TO 64 YEARS                        63.7       63.7       63.0                  ,,        62.5        62.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                      5.6        7.0        8.0                  ..         9.7         8.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6        0.6                  ..         0.6         0 6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.0         ,,                             1.1        o0:b.c
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .           .         ,                 67.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..        ..         ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7500.0 /  9000.0           ..             3100.0    11900.0       4900. 0Lb.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          18.0 E     15.0         ,,                22.0        25.0         9.0/°-IL
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            9.0        5.0        Z.2/b               6.0         1.1/a        1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             27.S       21 .4 a                                                14./d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             50.9       47.0         ..                                        38.91
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              X.9        5.6.         .        -         ..          ..         7 17 
LOWEST  40% OP HOUSEHOLDS             16.6       16. 2L       ..                  ..          ..        20.0a
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP 
X 0W4E3 EY TOP 10X oF OWNERS               ..        ..         ..                  .....
.1 OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  ,.      _
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               650.0/cd500 0         460.0              1080.0       7400/b    0403/b
POPULATION'PER NURSING PERSON              ..     980.0Lk        ,,              520.0           ,,       150.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            160.0/C   170.0       170.0/C             .310.0      220.0         go.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        .115.0      129.0      129.0               100.0       107.0       115.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               98.0       99.0     107.1                 62.0        81.0       101.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          54.0       64.0       68.5                32.0.       40.0        71.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.4        3.2          ..                5.4          0.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO                             o
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        98.0     106.0      lO.0                 100.0       131.0        106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      32.0       37.0       53.0                41.0        57.0         83.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12-0       12.0       12.0                tt.O        11.0         13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                      50.0       59.0       63.0                  ,,        20.0         16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 91.0       93.0          .,                77.0        94.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  1.3        1.4/C       ,.                  ,.          ..         0.7'/L  S
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       53.0          ..        ..                  ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OE ALL DWELLINGS)                  69.0       76.0/d    79.0  d                 ..          ,.        99.0 /b.c
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    19.0          ..         ..                  ..          ..     -  93.0 Ib.c
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          176.0     370.0      838.0 .             164.0           ..       211.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            24.0      61.0       8l.Q                 55.0        71.0       312.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           524.0      936.0   11D1:U                 1229.0      1634.0      4496.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 8.6      11-4         7 4                 8.2         5.8        35.9
…_______________-…                                                           -------------------------------------- -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
NOTES
Unles otherwie noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
a GNP per capita data are based an World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 beasis).
Selection of Australis as an objective country is based on comsparable resource endowments  and economic  tructure.
ARGENTINA     1960    /a  Persons 14 years of age and over;    /b  Persons 15 years of age and over;    /c  1962;    /d  Registered, not all practicing
in the country.
1970    /a  Income recipients, Buenos Aires - urban;    /b  Hospital personnel only;    /c  Households, total, urban and rural;
/d Percentage of population.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976;    lb  October 1977;    /c  1971;    /d  Percentage of population.
SPAIN         1970    /a  Employment office estimate;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
AUSTRALIA    1970    /a  Due to isigration, population growth rate is higher than rtte of natural increase:                 /b  1966;    Ic  Including full-bloodnd
Aborigines;     Id  1967-68.
R6, January 24, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thos kr.2)                                                                       Population per sursing person - Population divided by somber of practicing
Total   Total surface ares comprising land ares  nd inland waters.                            sale  nd female graduate nurses, "trainsd" or "certified" nurses, and
Atric. - Most recent estimate of agricultural ares used temporarily or pars-                  auxiliary perssoeol with training or experience.
meetly for crops, pastures, market 6 kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                    Population per hospital bd - POPu1atiom  divided by masber of hospital beds
GNP pr ..it.   us$j- GNpper  .pit  ..t-t--St ..r..tmarkt prces,available in public and privete gmera1 sod specialiced hospital and
GNP per scaita (U31$) - GH? par capita estimates at current macbet prices,                    rehbbilitation ceaters; excludes nursing homes sod etsblislhments for
calculated by Same conversion qethod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per capita supply of calories ft of requiremanta) - Computed fro  energy
evquivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital CttiOticO                                                                available Supplies comprise domestic production, imports less esportr, snd
Population (mid-year million)   AS of July first:  if not  vailable, average                  changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, Seeds, quantities used
of two end-year estimates; 1?60, 1970  nd 1975 data.                                        in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by PAO based on physiological needs for martnal activity and health consid-
Population density - per square kr - Mid-year population per square kilometer                 sring environmental temperature, body weights, age and ass diatribu-iona of
(100 hectares) of total area.                                                               population, and allowing 107 for wSte at hosehold level.
Population density - per square kh  of aaric. land - Computed as above for                  Par capita supply of protein frares Par day) - Protein content of per capita
agriculturl land only.                                                                      et supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
mants for .11 countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                              provide for a niniDm,  allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thouand, average - Annu   live births per thousand of                    20 gr-ns of animal snd plse protein, of which 10 gr     should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic aerages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grza  of total protein
and five-year overage ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate,                              and 23 gram  of animal protein as an aerage for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand.  varasge - Annual deaths par thousand of mid-year              in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithsaetic sveregeS  ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-              Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                                        derived from animals and pulses in gras per day.
Infant mortality rate f/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age              Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life espectancy at birth (vra) - Average nwsber of years of life remmiing at                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                            Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average nmsebr of live daughters a    n  will bear                Adjusted enrolMent ratio - primpary School - EnrolLment of a11 ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she eaperiences present age-specific                   centage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year awerages  nding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                   universal education, enrollment may enseed 1007 s ace some p,pila are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of  id-year                  or above the official School age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                       education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                provides general, vocationsl or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among countries,                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally  excluded.
Urbasn Population (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Years of echooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries,                  chooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely secluded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                 VOcational enrollment (% of secondary; - Vocational inutitutions include
and retired  (65 ynars and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                     technical, industrial or other program  which operate independently or as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   deprtr-ents of secondary inotitutious.
of ages 15 through hA.                                                                    Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read and write) a  per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under. 15 and 65 sod over to                   centage of total adult Populstin aged 15 years and anon.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
F-pily Plannino -.acceptors (icmulatlive  thou) - Cuonlative number of acceptors             Housing
of birth-control devices under suapices of national fmily planning program                 Persons per room  (urban) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
Since inception.                                                                             conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings occlude non-permanent
Family planning - users 17. of married women  - Percentages of married wosa  of                structures and -un.ccopied parts.
chlld-bearitg age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married               Occupied dwellings without piped water (5) - Occupied conrventional dwellings
women I, cave age group.                                                                     in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
E.PlOyment                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ac:spercentage of all occupied dwellings.
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                     e toct riycIlitvi    q t     a  percent of total dwelli gs in urbaniso
forces and unemployed but escluding housewives, students, etc.; definitiona                  rural areas.
in various oountries are not comparable.                                                   Rural dwellinscnetdoeltriy() - Computed as above for rurol
Labor force in agriculture (C) - Agricultural labor fore (in farming, forestry,                dwellings on y.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force) - Unesployed are usually defined as persons who                Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a Job on a given day, r ined out                Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadct
of a job, and Seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                  to general public per thousand of poplation; excludes unlie             rcimcrs
week; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                   in countries and in years when registration of radio are, was in effet;
of unmployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                  data for recent years may not be comparable since most countri   aboliohed
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance,                                                  licensing.
Passenger casr (per thou pop) -up: Psegr.care comprise motor caro sea ting
Ince distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash end kind)                       l    thn eight persons  secludes ambul aces, hearses and militoar
received by richest 57., richest lit., poorest 20%, and pooreet 40% of house-                vehicles.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, comoercial.
Public an   rvt   lcrct   nblwt   ors per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of lnd owned by wealthiest 107                    based o  Production data, without allowanne for loses in grids bht alow-
and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                               Lsin for imports and eaparte of electrciciy.
health and Nutrition                                                                         Newprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograma
Population per physician - Population divided by ousber of practicing                          ..timsted fro    omestic prduction plus nt isP-ts of newsprint
physicians qualified from a medical School at university level.



EOOMIC DEVELOPMEST DATA                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
Actual                      Projected
1970-        1976-
1970      1976     1977e       1979     1982    1985                     1976          1985             1970      1976       1985
VATIONAL ACCUNTS
Million of US$ at 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates                        Annual Growth Rates                As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product           33.519    39,210   40,935      45,995   55,040  55,877                    2.6          6.0              100.7      100.9      100.1
Gains from Terms of Trade (+        237      -353     -269        -137     - 82    - 33                     --            --              - .7       ..± .9 ....z.i
Gross Domestic Income            33.282    38,857   40,666      45,858   54,958  65,843                    2.6          6.1               100.0     100.0      100.0
Import (incl. NFS)               3,427      2,814    3,304       3,876    5,159   6,761                   -3.2          10.3               10.3       7.2       10.3
ExPorts   " (isoort caoacitv)  -3,644    -3.664   -4.980        -4.285   -5.424  -6.887           *         .1           7.4             -10.9       -9.4      -10.5
Resource Gap                    -  217    -  850   -1,676    --  409   -  265  -  126                       --            --             - 0.6       -2.2      -  .2
Consumption Expenditures        25.393    30,173   30,459       34,869   42,032  50,566                    2.9          6.0                76.3      77.7       76.8
Investment "  (incl. stocks)   7,672        7,834    8,531      10,579   12,658  15,151                     .3           7.7               23.1      20.2       23.0
Domestic Savings                  7,889     8,684   10,207      10,989   12,924  15,277                    1.6           6.6               23.7      22.3       23.2
National Savings                  7,441     8,387    9,852      10,691   12,646  15,054                    1.1           6.9               22.4      21.4       22.9
MERC&NDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                    As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                    365        550      874       1,327    2,423   4,004                                   --              21.5       18.0       28.3
Intermediate Goods             1,168      1,870    2,402       3,310    5,477   9,010                     --            *_              68.9       61.3       63.8
Fuels and related materials       79        560      584         635      721      818                    --            -                 4.7      18.4        5.8
Copaumption goods                 82         70       98         124      185      298                   -_            __                4.9        2.3        2.1
Total March. Imports (cif)    1,894       3,050    3,958       5,396    8,806  14,130                                                  100.0      100.0      100.0
Exports
Primary products               1.485      2.807    3.842      4.457    6.876  10.421                      --             _              83.7       74.6       72.5
Nanufactured goods               98O       QaJ5    1.495     1378    2.267  3.954                        --            __               16.3      25.4       27.5
Total Merch. Exports (fob)    1,774       3.763    5,337       50835    90143  145375                                                   100.0     100.0      1000.
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1975 -  100
Export Price Index                45         95      105         125      156      193
Import Price Index                49        104      121         129      158      194
Terms of Trade Index              93         91       95          97       98      100
Export Volume Index   .          132        136      178         157      198      251
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1975 Prices and Exchange Rates
Agriculture                    4,478     4,664      5,094      5,690     6,849  7,807                    1.5            5.4              14.6      13.0       13.6
Industry and Mining           12,452    15,248    15,432    17,237    20,749 23,652                      2.9           6.9               40.6      42.5       41.2
Services                      13.740    15,965    16.930    18.911    22,764 25,948                      2.8            5.4             44.8       44.5       45.2
Total                         30,670    35,877    37,456    41,838    50,362 57,407                      2.7            6.0             100.0     100.0      100.0
PUBhLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                               AsPercent of GDP
(Central Government-Treasury)
Current Receipts               5,027     5,960                                                           2.9           -_                15.0      15.2        -
Currant ExPenditures           3.889     5.254                                                           5.1           ._                11.6      13.4
Budgetary Savings              1,139       760                                                            --            __               3.3        1.6
Other Public Sector Transfers   670       2,509                                                         24.6            --                2.0       6.4
Public Sector Investment         737     1,686                                                          14.8            --                2.2       4.3        --
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1965-      1970-     1975-      1980-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)          1970      1975       1980      1985
Average ICOR                                     4.4        6.9       6.8        3.7
Import Elasticity                                1.1       0.9        1.4        1.7
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate (7.)             26.7      10.6       43.7       24.5
Marginal National Savings Rate (7.)             23.2       16.2      44.5       24.9
lABOR FORCE AND                              Total Remunerated Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (1975         Prices & Eac. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Millions             I of Total        Annual Growth Rate         In U.S.Dollars      Percent of AverSge
1970        1973       1970        1973                               1970       1973     1970           1973        1970-73
Agriculture                     1.181       1.264         18          17           2.3                 4,854     4,636    85.9            78.9          1.5
Industry                        2,488       2.666        37           36           2.3                 6,392     7,162   113.2          121.9          3.9
Services                        3.082       3.434        45           47           3.7                 5,702     5.830   100.9            99.2          .7
Total Average                   6.751       7.364        100         100           2.9                 5,649     5,876   100.0           100.0          1.03



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OP PAYNENTSS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                                      E     ted                Projected
1972       1973       1974       1975    197            19 7               1980       1985
SUMMAARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                                          2,389      3,799      4,761      3,669   4,668           6,461              7,989    16,509
Imports (incl. NFS)                                          2.222      2.633      4.218      4.517   3.584           4,561              7,317    16.208
Resource Balance                                               167      1,166        543       -848   1,084           179fl                 7         301
Net Factor Service Income                                     -386       -455       -416       -440    -490            -487               -491       -517
Net Interest Payments                                     (-323)    (-382)    (-388)    (-425)  (-464)             (-457)             (-427)    (-377)
Direet Investment Income                                   (-60)      (-77)      (-35)      (-16)   (_28)           (-30)              (-65)    (-140)
Other Factor Service Income                                 (-3)        ( 4)      ( )         ( 1)     ( 2)            _        -                    -
Current Transfers (net)                                         .4         10         -            5      18              7                 -5        -10
Balance on Current Account                                    -223        721        127    -1,283       611          1,420                Liz       -22&
Private Direct Investment                                       10         10         10          -        -              -                 40        120
Official Capital Grants                                          10        26          17         9        8              6                  1          0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursement                                                522        832        776        448   1,906          1,144               1,236      1,190
-Amortication                                               -317       -468       -548       -516    -590            -734            -1.087    -1,114
Net Disbursements                                           205        364        228        -68   1,319             410                149         76
Other ML&T Loans
Disbursement                                                101         71        244        405      268           650                 550        625
-Amortieation                                                -50       -100       -216       -408    -427           -399                 392        408
Net Disbursements                                            51        -29         28         -3    -159             251                168        217
Short-Term Capital and
Transactions n.e.i.                                            82       _444       -339        275  -1,814            -203                -          '
Change in Net Reserves
( - = increase)                                              -135       -648        -71      1,070       35        -1,884
Change in Gross Reserves
( - = increase)                                              -195       -865         44        854  -1,157         -1,884                -534       -187
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-Like                                    -          -           -          -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                                                         -     -               -          -      115
Other Multilateral                                           92         57          1        177    165
Governments                                                  82         42        519         42    146
Suppliers                                                   118        116        535        307    196
Financial Tnstitutions                                      390        156        488        126    970
Bonds                                                       120         65        290        200    207
Public Loans n,e.i.
Total Public M&LT Loans                                     802        436      1,833        852  1,803
Actual                        Ets,
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE             1972   1973   1974   1975                t
Public Debt Ostsfsnddng
& Disbursed                    2,368  2,792  3,046  2,901  4,251    4,613
Interest on Public Debt          156    199    233    250    258          289
Repayments oc Public Debt        317    468    548    516    589          734
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1976            Total Public Debt Service        473    667    781    766    847    1,023
EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                  Disbursed Only                     Percent          Other Debt Service               174    244    408    626    659
Total Debt Service               647    911  1.189  1,392  1,506
IBRD                                                342                            8.1
Other Multilateral                                  294                            6.9        BURDEN ON EXPORT EARNINGS (4)
Governments                                         567                           13.3
Suppliers                                           686                           16.1          Public Debt Service             19.8   17.6   16.4   20.9   18.1           15.6
Financial Institutions                            1,566                           36.8
Bonds                                               743                           17.5          Total Debt Service               27.1   24.0   25.0   37.9   32.3
Public Debts n.e.i.                                  53                            1.3          TDS + Dir. 1v. Income           29.6   26.0   25.7   38.4   32.9
Total Public M&LT Debt                             4,251                          100.0
AVENAGE TERMS OF PUBLIC DEBT
Int. as % Prior Year DO&D        8.3   864    8.3    8.2    8.9
Anort. as % Prior Year DO&D  16.9   19.8   19.6   16.9   20.3
IBRD Debt DOt. & Disbursed    256    302    340    341    342
IbRD as % of Pub. Debt O&D   10.8   10.8   11.2   11.8    8.0
IBRD Debt Serv. as % of
Pub. Debt Serv.                 5.1    4.6    4.5    5.6    5.1



Annex II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amount less         Undis-
Loan #     Year         Borrower           Purpose         Cancellations       bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                         342.3
505       1968         Argentina          Livestock           15.3               2.7
733       1971         Ferrocarriles      Railways            56.5              3.8
Argentinos S.A.
734       1971         Argentina          Highways            67.5             15.1
1330       1977         SEGBA, S.A.        Power              115.0            113.3
1384       1977         Argentina          Highways           105.0            105.0
1463       1978         Banco Nacional    Industrial
de Desarrollo       Credit           100.0            100.0
Total                                              801.6
Of which has been repaid                           118.9
682.7
Amount sold                       11.3
Of which has been repaid           7.0               4.2
Total now held by Bank                             678.5
Total undisbursed                                                   339.9
No IDA credits have been made to Argentina.



Annex II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of December 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                              Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor                Type of Business        Loans      Equity   Total
(US$ million)
1960           Acindar Industria           Steel Products           3.7         -        3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960            Papelera Rio Parana, S.A. Pulp and Paper            3.0         -        3.0
1961            Fabrica Argentina de       Automotive               1.5         -        1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.       Transmission
1962            PASA, Petroquimica         Petrochemicals           3.0         -        3.0
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/1972       Celulosa Argentina, S.A.  Pulp and Paper           12.5         -       12.5
1969/1975      Dalmine Siderca, S.A.       Steel Products          17.0         -      17.0
1969           Editorial Codex, S.A.       Printing and             5.0        2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971/1973      Calera Avellaneda, S.A.   Cement                     5.5         -       5.5
1977           Alpargastas S.A.I.C.        Textiles & Fibers        7.0         -       7.0
1977           Soyex S.A.                  Soybean Processing       9.0         -       9.0
Plant
Total Gross Commitments                            67.2        2.0       69.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                               33.1        2.0       35.1
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                  34.1         -        34.1
Total Undisbursed                                   9.0         -         9.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of December 31, 1977)
Loan 505-AR - Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31,
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date: July 31, 1979.
Lending to ranchers progressed very slowly from loan effectiveness
until 1970, then accelerated as cattle prices increased and technical services
improved. From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satisfactory and a sub-
stantial amount of the loan was disbursed. However, the closing of the
European Economic Community (EEC) to Argentine beef imports in 1974 limited
external demand for beef and slowed down ranchers' demand for investment
credits. Current prospects for beef cattle development in Argentina are
improving significantly since producers' prices are increasing in real terms
under new Government pricing policies and since beef exports are expanding
rapidly due in part to the reopening of the EEC market. The loan is now 82%
disbursed.
Loan 733-AR - Railway Prolect, US$84.0 million loan of April 28, 1971; Effective
Date: July.30, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Due to the socio-economic situation of the country, it became clear
in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be implemented. On July 2,
1974, US$27.5 million was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to
finance procurement committed by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974.
After having come to a standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum.
The last of 59 contracts for Bank-financed goods was finally signed in May
1976. Goods have been delivered for 40 contracts, and the revised loan is now
87% disbursed.
Loan 734-AR - Third Highway Project, US$67.5 million loan of May 5, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The overall quality of construction and supervision for the 28 road
sections included in the project is satisfactory. Fifteen of the road sections
have now been completed, but construction of the remaining thirteen sections
ran into severe problems caused by the difficult economic situation prevailing
in 1975 and early 1976.  Since March 1976, the Government has taken measures
to improve the situation and work has now resumed at a normal pace. The bulk
of the remaining work is expected to be carried out during 1978, with the
completion of several other contracts extending into the first half of
1979.
Loan 1330-AR - Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Although there was an initial delay of 3 to 6 months with the
procurement procedures mainly because of changes in SEGBA's management staff,
the project is now proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1384-AR - Fourth Highway Project; US$105.0 million loan of May 16, 1977;
Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1463-AR - Industrial Credit Project; US$100.0 million loan of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: November 28, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             Twelve months
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:           Grain Board and FAO/CP
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                November 1975
(d)  First Bank Mission to review project:    May 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            April 1977
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                January 12, 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             June 30, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   The Bank has obtained assurances that:
(a) Government would establish, within the Grain Board, a Project
Committee consisting of representatives from the Grain Board,
DNCEG, FA, Secretariat of Agriculture and the Secretariat of
Economic Programming and Coordination with the Undersecretary of
Agriculture as chairman (paragraph 51).
(b) Government would establish, under the authority of the Project
Committee, a Project Executing Unit consisting of the staff of the
National Department for Grain Elevator Construction (DNCEG), the
Grain Board and FA, to assist the Project Committee in the day-to-
day execution of the project with one of the representatives of
DNCEG as chairman (paragraph 51).
(c) Grain Board would lease project silos to groups qualified to
operate silos under lease and sales contracts satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 53).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Grain Board would operate those project silos not leased or sold
immediately after completion (paragraph 53).
(e) Grain Board would not lease or sell more than one project silo to
any one lessee or purchaser (paragraph 53).
(f) Grain Board would levy such leasing fees or user charges on
project silos which would result in an annual financial rate of
return of not less than 10% on the capital investment for the
project silos (paragraph 57).
2.   Condition of Effectiveness:
Government has established the Project Committee and the Project
Executing Unit.
3.   Condition of Disbursement:
None.



t  -a               5N,r'          Oa.   a' .-    ,,0 r. ,w2,.'4,a:Ddr'z'Punw<i i       ARGENTINA                     .                  8 
* ^  &      x atlas5-?s,  a"                                  0- a-areRAIN  STORAGE  PROJECT
I   I  j      ~          i                                                                                                                                                   V' so'j 8-nc   I   C C-  J C-s. 1  L 
t J 8 FI ¢i >~~~~2                                    'S-/ P46^sA los S%aanacos a<Fros    6
W'  .  w_gSTrncAx~'-W s                                I            -~A_  -                                             Lsam  ap                  Fo a oma
.   4-= --=  ?0f|              X           XCaaaooilagr          S . rt                         g        gS        g        MF--
~~~                          momo~~~~~~.--Gz  11:. 
JrL  2ol                    - a                                                     i yMM iG                               ergaoa          
-~~~ Ta-  a-  0                                                                       Si6A-t   "'  '.. 
jPgtqueo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vmao                                              sao  'sd    VBaOo                  5t 0  +> -e>Crs o. >   tf   ut
-~lO> v                                                    0;00$          s                                        (hod                 GarmentsX 
L                                                           V. B3f,      _   4 j  / r          
Carnaga Format                      /        =                    S-a 5/mom                                I v e            =        _
J     ]ee _6                                  a SyA   rOmq,j                                                                                                                   26'<0;  9t
'0 ~ ~   ~ ~ <3 saaesaf'-' aia    O Ros                          P-5't       ai wL m <                         t     $           I           T          oGra   ud
t~~~..  aa~~~~~~~aa~~~~maamtoSO~~~~~~~~~~m~..
I I -Main Ra'lradsfrGamnTafs          o               t            Dbl s                                          tX9/vt>oar  -a         :4  2i
Rivers aA                                                                                      Ct  s.1      Mg
_335                                 N                        aL      ;        {    JL           *                       $      +      ,, a  Na-Mora3
Ta    eS0        T100ra 15        y0                      j\                   r    g                                            e  e r  r  X         t Mr m r   0t
K..9      LO     ,       EjESTBgc./(<~~5  
Xca~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~1>Dre                                                                                                        o          ___-.  i\taaa  7   1' (_-a  ( -<
60c                T4'                         !aSa
Al,.amp aIVd.                                                                                                                 S'
__  No             SANT~~~~~ARI
d~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-~~~~~~TDlaa CC ANa.a                                                                                                                   Sm  amam 
3& ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
z  U   '9   a-   ~~~5-\    R             Va->j               -     aLlam-
R..Ir..ds                    C.                                              n, I.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ha     Lsai(
Prjopoe Grom  ort si    ie
Paojinciol Boomrdaaieas
--- Intarnatio-Il Bour,d-tm                                                                                                                   Im-mc
5       50       155       155      2(55ca
4 'q ~ ~ ~~~~'
6~~~~~,'  64'                                                                     60,~~~~~~~~~~~~~h)                     56'-'a-



