CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1521 AR
Project Agreement
(Grain Storage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS
Dated June 29, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1521 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and Junta Nacional de Granos (hereinafter called the Grain Board).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Argentine Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
and five million dollars ($105,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the Grain Board agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) the proceeds of the Loan for Parts A, B, and C provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the Grain
Board on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C) the Grain Board will make available to Ferrocarriles
Argentinos those proceeds of the Loan required for Part C.1 of the
Project; and
WHEREAS the Grain Board, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Grain Board shall carry out Parts A, B and
C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. For purposes of carrying out Part C.1 of the
Project, the Grain Board shall enter into contractual arrangements
with FA whereby:
(a) The Grain Board shall make the proceeds of the Loan for
Part C.1 of the Project, made available to it by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement, available to
FA as a loan to mature in fifteen years including a three year
period of grace and to bear interest of seven and forty-five
hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum.
(b) FA shall undertake: (i) to carry out the works included
in Part C.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices; (ii) to provide 13,200,000 dollars equi-
valent and such other funds as shall be required for that purpose;
and (iii) to take such action as shall be required to permit the
Grain Board to perform its obligations under this Agreement in
respect of Part C.1 of the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist the Grain Board in the
preparation of detailed designs and functional specifications for
the Project silos, the preparation of bidding documents and eval-
uation of bids for the Project works, the supervision of the
construction of the Project works, and training and inventory
control, the Grain Board shall employ engineering, management and
accounting consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. In
respect of consultants' contracts for more than $100,000 equiv-
alent, qualifications of the pre-selected consultants and proposed
draft contracts shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Grain Board shall employ such consultants as shall
be necessary to assist the Project Executing Unit referred to in
Section 3.04 (b) of the Loan Agreement in the discharge of its
functions and responsibilities; the qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment of such consultants to be
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Grain Board undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Grain Board to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Grain Board
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to the Grain Board by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.06. (a) The Grain Board shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contracts documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Grain Board: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any records
and documents relevant to the Project; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank, on a quarterly basis, all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Grain Board shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Grain Board and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. The Grain Board shall enter into contractual
arrangements with FA whereby FA shall provide the necessary
locomotives and rail cars for transporting grain from Project
silos directly administered by the Grain Board to the various
ports at such rates as shall reflect the improvements in the
transport of grain resulting from the Project.
Section 2.08. The Grain Board shall provide the Secretariat
of Maritime Affairs of the Borrower with such information as shall
be available to the Grain Board and required for carrying out Part
D of the Project.
Section 2.09. The Grain Board shall, not later than July 31,
1979, construct and test a ramp for the unloading of grain from
railway boxcars.
Section 2.10. The Grain Board shall, not later than May 1,
1980, start the training referred to in Part B (v) of the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) The Grain Board shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Grain Board shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by the Grain Board of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Grain Board
Section 3.01. The Grain Board shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. The Grain Board shall, in accordance with
Decree-Law No. 6698/63, as amended, at all times maintain its
right to carry on its operations and shall take all steps neces-
sary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Grain Board shall at all times manage its
affairs, plan its investments and maintain its financial position,
all in accordance with appropriate business practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.04. The Grain Board shall at all times operate and
maintain its property, facilities and. equipment and from time to
time make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with appropriate practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Grain Board shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Grain Board shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balaie sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by Contadorla General de la Naci6n of the Borrower;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Grain
Board and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Grain Board may lease Project silos
with option to purchase or sell them on cash or credit terms,
provided that the terms and conditions of the lease or sale are
satisfactory to the Bank, including the following:
(i) lessees or purchasers shall be groups qualified
to operate silos;
(ii) only one Project silo may be leased or sold to any
one lessee or purchaser;
(iii) leases shall be for periods of not less than one
year or more than three years; and


﻿-6-
(iv) in the case of sales financed by the Grain Board,
the financial terms and conditions of the portion
of the sale price so financed corresponding to
the portion of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
it by the Borrower and outstanding to finance the
Project silo so sold shall be the same as those
applicable to such proceeds.
(b) The Grain Board shall operate all Project silos not
leased or sold as per provisions of paragraph (a) above, with the
assistance of qualified silo managers and supporting staff.
(c) The Grain Board shall levy such fees on leased Project
silos or user charges on Project silos directly administered by
the Grain Board so as to earn an annual financial rate of return
of not less than 10% on the capital invested in the construction
of Project silos.
(d) In the case of a Project silo sold for cash, the Grain
Board shall: (i) promptly repay to the Borrower such amounts as
shall be equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borower for purposes of constructing the Project silo so sold,
or (ii) use the proceeds of such sale to finance the construction
of new silos with such characteristics, of such size and in such
locations as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the Grain Board thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Bank shall promptly so notify the Grain Board.
Section 5.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Grain Board:
Junta Nacional de Granos
Paseo Col6n 367
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:                      Telex:
JUNACAR                             121793-AR
BAIRES                              122151-AR
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Grain Board may be taken or executed
by its Presidente or Gerente General or such other person or


﻿-8-
persons as its Presidente or Gerente General shall designate in
writing, and the Grain Board shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS
By /s/ David Lacroze
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   (i) Bidders for the works and services included in Parts A
and B (1) of the Project shall be prequalified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines;
(ii) Contracts for civil works and equipment under Part A of
the Project shall, whenever possible, be grouped in
packages of not more than five silos each.
3.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, the Grain Board
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Grain Board shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
(i) Contracts for purchase of goods other than computer
equipment or for civil works costing more than $50,000
. equivalent but less than $1,000,000 equivalent shall be
let after competitive bidding based on local advertising
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(ii) Goods and civil works costing $50,000 equivalent or less
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, after solici-
tation of quotations from suppliers or contractors, as
the case may be, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of the goods and availability of mainte-
nance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in
the case of civil works, of the competence of the
contractors undertaking them.
(iii) Contracts under Part C (i) of the Project not exceeding
a total of $11 million equivalent may be let after
competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Grain Board of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Argentina if the bidder shall have established to


﻿- 11 -
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Argentina equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Argentina.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement without Contracting
All works for silo access railway lines, interline rail
connections, small hump in Bahia Blanca Port and improvements for
rail marshalling yards and silo access railway tracks in Rosario
Port shall be executed by use of force account by FA with the
assistance of subcontractors.


﻿- 12 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Grain Board shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonabjy request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part C.1 above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Grain Board to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Grain
Board's decision, and the Grain Board shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
for Project silos estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000
or more and contracts for consultant services estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more;
(a) Before bids are invited, the Grain Board shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Grain
Board shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Grain Board and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 13 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, -materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Grain Board shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Grain Board and state the reasons
for such determination.


