OFFICIAL
DOCUM ENTS OAN N UBER 1521 AR
Amending Agreement
to Loan Agreement
(Grain Storage Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated 1, 1984


﻿LOAN NUBER 1521 AR
AMENDING AGREEMENT
TO LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     (2e        6(           , 1984, between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the loan agreement dated June 29, 1978,
between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement), the Bank has made a loan (hereinafter called the
Loan) to the Borrower, in amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred five million United States dollars ($105,000,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, for
the purposes of assisting in the financing of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (hereinafter called
the Project);
(B) by a project agreement (hereinafter called the JNG
Project Agreement) dated June 29, 1978, between the Bank and
Junta Nacional de Granos (hereinafter called the Grain Board) the
Grain Board agreed to undertake the obligations toward the Bank
in the JNG Project Agreement set forth;
(C) the Borrower and the Grain Board have requested to the
Bank to agree to amend the scope of the Project, to reduce the
amount of the Loan and to the participation in the carrying out
of the Project, as amended, of Ferrocarriles Argentinos (herein-
after called FA) and Banco de la Nacion Argentina (hereinafter
called BNA) and for the purpose to agree to the modification of
so           +s, agreements and obligations in the Loan Agreement
and the JNG Project Agreement set forth;
(D) the Project, as hereinafter amended, will be part of
the Plan de Almacenamiento de Granos (as hereinafter defined) and
will be partially carried out by the Grain Board, FA and BNA with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Grain Board, FA and BNA part
of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS upon the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing the
Borrower and the Bank have agreed to enter into this Agreement


﻿-2-
(hereinafter sometimes called the Amending Agreement) upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as therein defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Section 2.01. Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement is deleted
and substituted by the following:
"Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions)".
Section 2.02. Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended
by:
(a)  the deletion of paragraph (c) and its substitution by
the following:
"(c)  "JNG  Project  Agreement"   means  the   Agreement
between the Bank and the Grain Board dated June 29, 1978, as
amended to the date of the Amending Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the JNG Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the JNG Project Agreement;"
(b) by adding the following new paragraphs:


﻿- 3 -
"(d) "FA Project Agreement" means the Agreement between
the Bank and FA of even date with the Amending Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms
includes all schedules to the FA Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the FA Project Agreement";
"(e)  "BNA  Project   Agreement"  means  the   Agreement
between the Bank and BNA of even date with the Amending
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such  term   includes  all  schedules   and  all   agreements
supplemental to the BNA Project Agreement";
"(f )  "JNG  Subsidiary   Loan  Agreement"   means   the
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Grain Board pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time";
"(g) "FA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and FA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time";
"(h)   "BNA  Subsidiary   Loan  Agreement"   means   the
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BNA
pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time";
"(i) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by BNA and to be partially financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so
defined, which shall not exceed      the  sua of   $1,500,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan;
"(j) "Investment Enterprise" means a private sector
enterprise or cooperative or association of grain producers
to which BNA proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan";
"(k) "Investment Project" means a project to be carried
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan which consists in the construction, improvement or
expansion of facilities for the storage or handling of
grains";


﻿"(1) "Charter" means the charter of BNA, set forth in
the Borrower's Law No. 21,799, dated May 18, 1978, published
in the Official Gazette No. 23.936, dated June 16, 1978";
"(m) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of
lending policy and procedures approved by the Directors of
BNA and effective as of the date of this Agreement";
"(n) "Pesos Argentinos" and the symbol "$a." means the
currency of the Borrower";
"(o) "AGP" means "Administracidn General de Puertos;
"(p) "SNA" means "Servicio Nacional de Arquitectura";
"(q) "Executing Agency" means any of the following: The
Grain Board, FA, BNA, and the Borrower's Secretary of
Maritime Affairs; and "ParticipE ing Agencies" means AGP and
SNA;"
"(r) "Plan de Almacenamiento de Granos" means the
program of grain storage development referred to in Article
2 of the Borrower's Law No. 22371 of January 13, 1981; and
"(s) "Central Bank" means Banco Central de la Repulblica
Argentina.
Section 2.03. An amount equivalent to eighteen million
dollars ($18,000,000) is cancelled from the Loan amount and
Section 2.01 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and substituted by
the following:
"Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighty-seven million dollars ($87,000,000).
(b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.03 of
the General Conditions, the Bank may cancel, by notice to
the Borrower, an amount of the Loan equal to the amount
allocated to Category (6) in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement less any amounts which at the
time  of  the  cancellation  shall have been disbursed or
committed under Sub-loans approved or authorized by the Bank
pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) and (b) of the BNA Project
Agreement, if by December 31, 1984, the Bank has approved or


﻿- 5 -
authorized, pursuant to said Section 2.03 (a) and        (b),
Sub-loans which will utilize in the aggregate an amount
equivalent to less than twenty percent (20%) of the amount
allocated to such Category (6) on the date of the Amending
Agreement."
Section 2.04. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Loan
Agreement is deleted.
Section 2.05. Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is deleted
and substituted by the following:
"Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agrecment, provided, however, that goods and civil works
required for Investment Projects shall be procured pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.04 (a) (ii) of the BNA
Project Agreement."
Section 2.06. Section 2.04 of the Loan Agreement is deleted
and substituted by the following:
"Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1986 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, the Grain Board, FA
and BNA of such later date.
Section 2.07. Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement is deleted.
Section 2.08. Section 2.10 of the Loan Agreement is deleted
and substituted by the following:
"Section 2.10. BNA is designated representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with
respect to Part E of the Project.
Section 2.09. The following new Section 2.11 is added to the
Loan Agreement:
"Section 2.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be
opened and thereafter maintained a Special Account in


﻿-6-
dollars in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank. Payments out of the Special Account
shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonabla cost of
goods and services required to carry out the Project and to
be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 and Schedule I hereto.
(b)   the Bank may, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account an amount in dollars of up to
$13,000,000. In the event the amount of such initial deposit
into the Special Account is less than $13,000,000 the
Borrower may from time to time request the Bank to withdrav,
from the Loan Account and make one or more additional ini-
tial deposits into the Special Account, but in no event
shall the amount of such initial deposits exceed in the
aggregate $13,000,000. At the request of the Borrower, the
Bank shall further withdraw from the Loan Account and depo-
sit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to pay-
ments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for
the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each such
deposit after the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by thte
Bank from the Loan Account under the same categories set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in
the same respective amounts, as have been justified by the
documentation for the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(c)   Prior to or at the time of each request for a
withdrawal by the Borrower from the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Central Bank an application
for withdrawal from the Special Account showing that the
payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods
or services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a)
above.   The Central Bank shall authorize the Borrower to
withdraw from the Special Account an amount in pesos
determined on the basis of the foregoing evidence, and shall
debit the Special Account with the dollar equivalent of such
amount in pesos determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the dollar and the peso in effect at the
time each payment was made by the Borrower or by an
Executing Agency, as the case may be.


﻿- 7 -
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account, the Central
BanK shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal
from the Special Account an application for withdrawal from
the Loan Account referred to in paragraph (c) of this Sec-
tion.
(e) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment
out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal
from the Loan Account, or (ii) was not justified by the
application of withdrawal furnished pursuant to paragraph
(d) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank and, unless otherwise determined by the
Bank, prior to any further deposit in the Special Account by
the Bank, deposit in the Special Account an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (b) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account
shall be made by the Bank when the Bank shall have deter-
mined, after consultation with the Borrower, that all fur-
ther withdrawals from the Lo,n Account may be made directly
by the Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to paragraph
(a) above, or when the total amount withdrawn. from the Loan
Account plus the amount of any cancellation of the Loan
amount, of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Bank and of any special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall
have reached the equivalent of $58,000,000, whichever shall
be sooner. Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remain-
ing amount of the Loan for the Project shall follow such
procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and shall be made only to the extent that the Bank
shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support of
the applications for such withdrawal that all payments by
the Borrower out of the Special Account were made on account
of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
in accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
(g) Notwithstanding   the   provisions  regarding   the
initial deposit set forth in paragraph (b) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank may at the request of and by notice to the


﻿- 8 -
Borrower, increase the amount of the initial deposit in
order to adjust the level of the Special Account to the
disbursement requirements of the Project. In such cases the
Bank may also adjust the amounts referred to in paragraph
(f) of this Section and in the allocation of the proceeds of
the Loan.
(h) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for expenditures under
the Project eligible for financing under the Loan, the
Borrower shall promptly upon notice from the Bank and unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount."
Section 2.10. Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement is
deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 3.01. (a) Without limitation or restriction
upon any of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Grain Board and FA to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the JNG Project Agreement,
respectively, all the obligations of the Grain Board and FA
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
actions, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable the Grain Board and FA to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance."
Section ?.11. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 3.01 are
deleted and substituted by the following:
"(b) (i) Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its obligations under the T.,oan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BNA to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the BNA Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all actions necessary
or appropriate to enable BNA to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and


﻿-9-
(ii) As part of the foregoing, the Borrower
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that funds available to BNA will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for carrying out
Part E of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide BNA or cause BNA to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
for Parts A, B, F and G of the Project available to the
Grain Board under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Grain Board, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank."
Section 2.12. The following paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) are
added to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement:
"(d) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
for Part C of the Project available to FA under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
FA, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of
the Loan for Part E of the Project available to BNA under a
subsidiary loa,n agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and BNA, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank.
(f) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the FA Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and the BNA Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements) in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof."
Section 2.13. Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement is deleted
and substituted by the following:
"Section  3.04. In   order   to  assist  the  Executing
Agencies in the carrying out of the Project and to coordi-
nate their activities, the Borrower shall establish:


﻿- 10 -
(a)  a Project Committee, with authority and responsi-
bilities, satisfactory to the Bank, including those speci-
fied in Part I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, chaired by
the Secretary of Agriculture and Livestock (Secretario de
Agricultura y Ganaderfa) and comprised of representatives of
the Secretariat of Transportation (Secretarfa de Trans-
porte), the Secretariat of Finance (Secretarfa de Hacienda),
the Ministry of Public Works and Services (Ministerio de
Obras y Servicios Pblicos) and the Under Secretariat of
Economy (Sub-Secretarfa de Economfa);
(b)  a Project Executing Unit under the authority of
the Project Committee referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, with authority and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank, including those set forth in Part II of Schedule 4
to this Agreement, such to be chaired by a representative of
the Grain Board and comprised of representatives of the
Executing Agencies and the Participating Agencies."
Section 2.14. The following new paragraphs are added to
Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement:
"(e) Law 18,360 of the Borrower, as amended, governing
FA or the Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to affect
materially and adversely the carrying out of Part C or Part
E of the Project by FA or BNA, respectively.
(f) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that FA or BNA will be able to
perform under the FA Project Agreement or the BNA Project
Agreement, respectively.
(g) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FA or BNA or the suspension of the
operations of FA or BNA.
(h)  FA or BNA shall have failed to perform any con-
venant, agreement or obligation of FA or BNA under the FA
Project Agreement or the BNA Project Agreement, respec-
tively."
Section 2.15. Paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 are
deleted and substituted by the following:


﻿- 11 -
"(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall conti-
nue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) or
(e) or (p) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur."
Section 2.16. Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement is deleted and substituted by the following:
"1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation
of the amounts of the Loan to each category and the percent-
age of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works and           11,400,000     40%
mechanical and
electrical
equipment
under Parts A
and F of the
Project
(2) Consultants'               1,650,000     40%
services
under Part B
of the
Project
(3) Computer                     500,000     100% of Foreign
equipment                               expenditures
(4) Equipment
under Part C
of the Project
(a) Rehabilitation             1,490,000     37%
of railway cars


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) purchase of          29,600,000     80%
grain cars
(5) Consultants'               2,460,000     71%
services under
Parts D (i), (ii)
and (iii) of
the Project
(6) Sub-loans under           22,500,000     50% of amount
Part E of                               of sub-loans
the Project                             disbursed by
BNA in respect
of the Project
(7) Consultants'                             65%
services under
Part G of the
Project
(a) under Part G (i)        100,000
(b) under Pprt G (ii)     3,900,000
(8) Improvement of rail        3,400,000     40%
facilities under
Part C of
the Project
(9) Unallocated               10,000,000
TOTAL          87,000,000
Section 2.17. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agree-
ment is deleted and substituted by the following:
"3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(b) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(c) expenditures by an Investment Enterprise: (i)
unless the Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank, that the BNA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and BNA and a legal
opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to
the Bank, showing that the BNA Project Agreement and the BNA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of BNA in
the case of the BNA Project Agreement, and the Borrower and
BNA in the case of the BNA Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (ii)
in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval
unless the Bank shall have approved such Sub-loan or if such
expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in
respect of such Sub-loan the application and information
required by Section 2.03 (a) of the BNA Project Agreement;
or (iii) in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, unless the
Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account
in respect of such Sub-loan or if such expenditures shall
have been made, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b) of the BNA Project Agreement; and
(d) expenditures to be financed under Category 7(b) in
the Table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank shall have
received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the pro-
posed Bahia Blanca Port Project is economically and techni-
cally justified."
Section 2.18. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 for the Loan
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Loan or the disbursement percentages setL forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures  in   that  Category,   the  Bank  may,   after
consultation with the Borrower and by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent


﻿- 14 -
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet  the  estimated  shortfall,  reduce  the  disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made."
Section 2.19. Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement including the
Exhibit thereto is deleted and substituted by the following:
"SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a Borrower's program, which includes
the Plan de Almacenamiento de Granos, the purposes of the Project
are to facilitate export of grain by: (a) increasing grain
storage and conditioning capacity through the construction of
silos with a total capacity of about 200,000 metric tons, and the
establishment of a line of credit for the private sector to
finance the construction, expansion or improvement of grain
storage and handling facilities; (b) improving rail transporta-
tion of grain to major ports; (c) study the possibility of
improved access by larger vessels to the port of Bahia Blanca;
and (d) prepare the final designs of a proposed expansion to the
Bahia Blanca port. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Construction and equipping of about 22 silos in the
Borrower's Provinces of Salta, Tucuman, Santiago del Estero,
Santa Fe, Chaco, Jujuy, Corrientes and Formosa, in locations
acceptable to the Bank, with an average storage capacity of about
8,000 metric tons, each consisting of receiving hoppers and
outloading equipment for trucks and railway cars, grain drying
and cleaning units, and storage facilities.
2.   Expansion and improvement of about five silos located
in Gaona, Metan, Rosario de la Frontera in the Province of Salta
and Alberdi and Los Ralos in the Province of Tucuman, to provide
for drying and cleaning, more efficient unloading, loading and
internal movement of grain.


﻿- 15 -
3.   Installation of about 9 ramps in major grain ports for
unloading grain from the boxcars to be modified under the
Project.
4.   Port improvements and wagon pulling arrangements in the
ports in the vicinity of the 9 ramps under 3 above.
5.   Provision of computer and terminal equipment to improve
the grain inventory control system of the Grain Board.
Part B:
Technical Assistance consisting of provision of engineering
consultant services to design silos, prepare bidding documents
for procurement of works, evaluate bids therefor and supervise
construction.
Part C:
Railway improvement consisting of:
1.   (i)  Alterations of about 2,000 existing boxcars to
handle grain efficiently by installing (a) roof doors for loading
and (b) hinge doors on both ends for unloading; (ii) alteration
to silo access tracks in the ports of Bahia Blanca and Rosario;
(iii) construction of railway interline connections; and (iv)
construction of access lines to project silos.
2.   Acquisition and utilization of about 845 wagons for the
transport of grain.
3.   Improvement of rail facilities at the Port of Rosario
consisting of:
(i) Remodeling of Rosario Norte yard to simplify yard
operations and to increase the capacity for feed-
ing the silo units III, IV and Genaro Garcia to
about 400 cars per day.
(ii) Remodeling of Rosario Sur yard to improve circu-
lation between the railway yard, the port yard and
the grain silo yard, and to improve the capacity
for feeding the silo units VI and VII to about 700
wagons per day.


﻿- 16 -
(iii) Improvement in the accesses to the port, including
the Saldini connection, the Acindar siding and the
realignment and reconstruction of secondary lines
in neighboring stations for dealing with 30 car
trains.
Part D:
A feasibility study for deepening the access channel to
Bahia Blanca Port consisting of: (i) hydrographic and oceano-
graphic surveys of the existing access channel of about 97 km
(with installation of a survey tower for tide and wave measure-
ment of the outer bay); (ii) observation of resiltation rates of
a test section dredged in the channel; (iii) preliminary engi-
neering and feasibility analysis for recommended channel improve-
ments; and (iv) dredging of a pilot channel.
Part E:
Establishment of a line of credit to finance the acquis-
tion, construction or improvement of facilities for the storage,
handling, drying and cleaning of grain.
Part F:
Construction and equipping of two prototype pilot train
loading facilities for loading 30 car trains.
Part G:
(i) Reassessment of the economic justification of the
proposed Bahia Blanca Port Project, incorporating thereto the
relevant portions of the study under Part D of the Project; and
(ii), if warranted, preparation of final design of the proposed
Bahia Blanca Port Project, including port, railway and grain-
handling project components, and bidding documents.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986."
Section 2.20. The Amortization Schedule in Schedule 3 to the
Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:


﻿- 17 -
"SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On November 1, 1981                              2,391,129.26
May 1, 1982                                     860,949.95
November 1, 1982                                160,522.61
May 1, 1984                                     100,000.00
November 1, 1984                                250,000.00
May 1, 1985                                   1,500,000.00
November 1, 1985                              2,500,000.00
May 1, 1986                                   3,000,000.00
and on each May 1, November 1                    5,500,000.00
beginning November 1, 1986
through November 1, 1992
On May 1, 1993                                   4,737,398.18
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal."
(No amendments are made to the provisions on prepayment
which remain the same).
Section 2.21. Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is deleted
and substituted by the following:


﻿- 18 -
"'SCHEDULE 4
Authority and responsibilities of the Project Ccmmittee and
Project Executing Unit in respect of the carrying out of the
Project.
I.   Project Committee
The Project Committee will, inter alia:
a.   Establish guidelines for preparing the annual working
plan with its corresponding schedule and budget;
b.   Oversee  the  carrying  out of   the  Project  by  the
Executing Agencies;
c.   At the level of political decision, provide support for
the needs of the Executing Agencies;
d.   Consider possible modifications to the project and/or
the work plan and prepare corresponding recommendations
to the National Executive Power and to the Bank;
e.   Coordinate the activities of the Executing Agencies
under the Project, and all matters not provided for in
the inter-institutional agreement;
f.   Approve all changes proposed for the inter-institu-
tional agreement;
g.   Maintain communications with the Bank relative to the
functions mentioned above;
h.   Request from the Executing Agencies all information and
assistance necessary for optimum achievement of Project
activities; and
i.   Supervise the necessary competitive bidding procedures.
Project Executing Unit
In respect of Project activities the Project Executing Unit
will, inter alia:
a.   Carry out the coordination of the daily activities of
the Project;
b.   Coordinate inter-institutional collaboration;


﻿- 19 -
c.   Maintain a committee of technicians which will super-
vise the execution of Part G of the Project;
d.   Maintain nonitoring data on all components and prepare
consolidated semester reports for presentation to the
Project Committee and the Bank; and
e.   Prepare a consolidated draft of the completion report
to be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the Closing Date."
Section 2.22. The following new Schedule 5 is added to the
Loan Agreement.
"SCHEDULE 5
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, civil works and goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Executing Agency shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Executing Agency shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.    (a)   Bidders for the works included under Part A of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines;


﻿20 -
(b) Contracts for civil works and equipment under Part A of
the Project shall, whenever possible, be grouped in packages of
at least 4 silo facilities each.
4,  For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding; (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Argentina
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Executing Agency and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such      goods includes a value
added in Argentina equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 21 -
3.     In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.    If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for civil works other than those included under
Parts A and E of the Project, shall be packaged in lots of about
$1,500,000 equivalent or more and shall be procured in accordance
with locally advertised procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The Executing Agency shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qua-
lifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification shall be furnished by the Executing Agency
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of Executing Agency's decision, and the Executing Agency shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 22 -
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Executing Agency shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the pros-
pective bidders.
(b)    After bids have been    received and evaluated, the
Executing Agency shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Executing Agency and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Executing Agency shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of


﻿- 23 -
such contfact, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Executing Agency and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Executing Agency shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Executing
Agency and state the reasons for its determination."
Section 2.22. The following new Schedule 6 is added to the
Loan Agreement:
"SCHEDULE 6
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "and Investment Projects" are added after the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date
specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the BNA Project
Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan


﻿- 24 -
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled."
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been
furnished to the Bank about the fulfillment of the following
conditions:
(a) that the JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the FA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the Grain Board and FA, respectively; and
(b) that the Project Committee and the Project Executing
Unit referred to in Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement, as
amended by this Agreement, have been established on terms
satisfactory to the Bank;
Section 3.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, there shall be
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel
acceptable to the Bank showing:
(a) on behalf of the Borrower: (i) that this Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and (ii) that the JNG
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the FA Subsidiary Loan Agreement
have been duly auhorized or ratified by the Borrower and are
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their
respective terms;
(b) on behalf of the Grain Board that the Amendments to the
JNG Project Agreement and the JNG Subsidiary Loan Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified by JNG and that both Agreements
are legally binding upon the Grain Board in accordance with their
terms; and


﻿- 25 -
(c)  on behalf of FA that the FA Project Agreement and the
FA Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by FA and are legally binding upon FA in accordance with
their respective terms.
Section 3.03. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Bank dispatches notice to the
Borrower and the Executing Agencies notice of its acceptance of
the evidence required by Section 3.01 of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by April 2, 1984, this Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank
establishes a later date for purposes of this Section. If this
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section,
the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been exe-
cuted.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
renresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ByS7l e -l
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of   VV    198  .
FOR SECRETARY


