OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS       LOAN NIMBER 1521 AR
Amending Agreement to
Project Agreement
(Grain Storage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL wANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JUNTA-NACIONAL DE GRANOS
Dated                     9        , 1984


﻿LOAN NURBER 1521 AR
AMENDING AGREEMENT TO PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        7          2 *        , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS (hereinafter
called the Grain Board).
WHEREAS (A) by a loan agreement dated June 29, 1978, between
the Argentine Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank agreed to
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred and five million dollars ($105,000,000) (herein-
after called the Loan), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement;
(B) by a project agreement (hereinafter called the Project
Agreement), dated June 29, 1978, bLween the Bank and the Grain
Board, the Grain Board agreed to undertake the obligations toward
the Bank in the Project Agreement set forth;
(C) at the Borrower's request the Bank has agreed to amend
the Loan Agreement and to reduce the amount of the Loan in the
terms set forth in the Amending Agreement to the Loan Agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (herein-
after called the Amending Agreement), but only on condition that,
inter alia, the Grain Board agree to amend the Project Agreement
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS upon the basis of, inter alia, the foregoing the
Bank and the Grain Board have agreed to enter into this Agree-
ment, upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Whenever used in this -Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Amendments to the Project Agreement
Section 2.01. Whereas (A) and Whereas (B) of the Preamble to
the Project Agreement are deleted.
Section 2.02. Section 2.01 of the Project Agreement is
deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 2.01. The Grain Board shall carry out Parts A,
B, F and G of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity   with   appropriate    administrative,   financial,
engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services   and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 2.03. Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement is
deleted and substitute by the following:
"Section  2.02. The   Grain  Board   shall  enter  into
contractual arrangements with FA, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing for the participation of the Grain Board    and FA
in the carrying out of Parts C and F of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement; such
arrangements  to   define  the   responsibilities  of   both
Executing Agencies and their respective contributions to the
execution of such Parts of the Project."
Section 2.04. Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement is
deleted and substituted by the following:
"Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement."
Section 2.05. Section 2.06 (b) is amended by replacing the
expression "Parts A, B and C of the Project" by the expression
"Parts A, B, C, F and G of the Project."
Section 2.06. Section 2.08 is deleted and substituted by the
following:


﻿- 3 -
"Section  2.08. The    Grain  Board  shall  enter  into
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, providing
for technical assistance services by the Grain Board to
assist BNA in the evaluation of the Investment Projects to
be financed by BNA under the Project."
Section 2.07. Section 2.10 is deleted and substituted by the
following:
"Section  2.10. The   Grain   Board  shall  enter  into
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with SNA providing for
SNA assistance to the Grain Board in the design and
construction supervision of the silos to be built by the
Grain Board under Part A of the Project."
Section 2.08. The Schedule to the Project Agreement is
deleted.
Section 2.09. The following Section 2.12 is added to the
Project Agreement:
"Section 2.12. The Grain Board shall duly perform its
obligations under the arrangements referred to in Sections
2.03, 2.08 and 2.10 of this Agreement and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Grain Board shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving such arrangements
or any provision thereof."
ARTICLE III
Effective Date
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Amending Agreement becomes
effective.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-4-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
P
By           $/
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
JUNTA NACIONAL DE GRANOS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -5 day of INAL&r198ip.
FOR SECRETARY


