Document of
FILE COPY                               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2336-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO NIGERIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
IN
RIVERS STATE
May 24, 1978
This document has a restricted distrbution nnd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         5           Naira (N)
US$1                  5           N 0.65
N+ 1                  =           US$1.54
N 1                   5           Kobo 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
I metric (m) ton                 0.98 long ton
I long ton            =           1.016 m ton
I long ton            =          2,240 lb
I hectare (ha)                    2.47 acres (ac)
I acre (ac)           =           0.405 ha
1 kilometer (km)      =          0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
AA     -    Agricultural Assistant
AO     -    Agricultural Officer
APMC   -    Agricultural Production and Marketing Corporation
bps    -    bunch purchase slip
FAO    -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FDA    -    Federal Department of Agriculture
ffb    -    fresh fruit bunches
FMARD  -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMG    -    Federal Military Government
IRHO   -    Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et les Oleagineux
LBA    -    Licensed Buying Agent
LGA    -    Local Government Authority
MANR   -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Rivers State)
MEU    -    Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
NAB    -    Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NIFOR  -    Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NISER  -    Nigerian Institute for Social and Economic Research
NPMC   -    Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
PAC    -    Planting Authorization Committee
RSG    -    Rivers State Government
SAO    -    Senior Agricultural Officer
SMU    -    Smallholder Management Unit
SPO    -    Special Grade Palm Oil
TPO    -    Technical Grade Palm Oil
USDA   -    United States Department of Agriculture
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
RIVERS STATE NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
BORROWER:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
AMOUNT:                US$30.0 million
TERMS:                 PayabLe over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum.
RELENDING TERMS:       Federial Government would onlend the proceeds of the
Bank loan to the Rivers State Government. The loan
would be onlent on the same terms as for the Bank
loan. A portion of the Bank loan (US$15.5 million)
would be relent by the Rivers State Government to
RISONPALM Ltd. for a period of 25 years, including
10 years grace at 9 percent per annum. Credit to
smallholders would be for a period of 13 years,
including 7 years of grace at 9.5 percent per
annumn.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The proposed loan would assist Nigeria's Rivers State
Government to finance the planting of some 20,000 ha
of high yielding oil palm on a nucleus estate and
associated smallholdings as Phase I of a program
ultimately scheduled to plant 40,000 ha of oil palm
over the period 1978-1986, including the construction
of one palm oil mill. In addition, the project would
provide for the improvement and/or reconstruction of
about 400 km of earth roads serving the smallholder
community; training staff and smallholders; feasi-
bility studies for a second phase oil palm project;
a coconut project identification and preparation
study and the establishment of a 120 ha coconut
seed garden.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page 2 of 3
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local      Foreign      Total
------- US$ Million -------
Nucleus Estate                        21.7        15.5        37.2
Preparation Study and
Coconut Seed Garden                  0.6         0.6         1.2
Smallholder Management
Unit and Planting Program           12.5         3.6        16.1
Contingencies:
Physical                             1.9         0.9         2.8
Price                               16.5         9.2        25.7
18.4        10.1        28.5
Project Cost                          53.2        29.8        83.0
Percentage                            64          36         100
Proposed Financing Plan
---------------- US$ Million -----------------
Total      IBRD     FMG       RSG    Smallholder
Nucleus Estate                      37.2      15.5     9.4      12.3          -
Preparation Study and
Coconut Seed Garden               1.2       0.6      0.3       0.3          -
Smallholder Management Unit         16.1      3.6      3.7       7.5         1.3
Base Line Costs                     54.5     19.7    13.4       20.1         1.3
Unallocated                         28.5      10.1     7.1      10.8         0.5
Project Cost                        83.0     29.8    20.5       30.9         1.8
Percentage                          100       36       25        37           2
DISBURSEMENT:
- (US$ million equivalent) -
Annually           Cumulative
FY 78/79               1.0                   1.0
FY 79/80               2.5                   3.5
FY 80/81               5.0                   8.5
FY 81/82                7.5                 16.0
FY 82/83                7.5                 23.5
FY 83/84               6.5                  30.0



- iii -
Page 3 of 3
BENEFITS:              The project's principal direct benefits would be the
additional annual production of 47,250 tons of palm oil
and 10,126 tons of kernels at full maturity in 1990 and
thereafter. At full maturity, the project would provide
about: 2,000 full time employment opportunities on the
estate, in the mills and with SMU. Based on an average
holding of 2 ha, 5,000 families would benefit and assum-
ing the average family size of seven, some 35,000 people
in aLl would benefit from the smallholder component.
Important secondary benefits would include training of
locaL personnel, development/improvement of some 400 km
of essential farm-to-market roads and, if the proposed
coconut feasibility study confirms that coconut develop-
ment is viable, it would provide for a diversification
in the cropping patterns in Rivers State and elsewhere
in southern Nigeria.
RATE OF RETURN:        The economic rate of return from investment in the
project is estimated at 15 percent.
APPRAISAL REPORT:       Report No. 1525-UNI dated May 18, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANiK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT IN RIVERS STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$30.0 mil-
lion to help finance a nucleaus estate/smallholder oil palm project in
Rivers State of Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years including
a 5-year grace period with an interest of 7.5 percent per annum. The Bank
loan would be onlent to the Rivers State Government under a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to the Bank; the terms would be the same as for the
Bank loan. The Rivers Stat,e Government would relend a portion of the Bank
loan (US$15.5 million) to RISONPALM Ltd. for a term of 25 years, including
10 years of grace at an interest rate of 9 percent per annum. Credit to
smallholders would be chanelled through cooperatives and would be for a
term of 13 years, including 7 years of grace, and with interest of 9.5 per-
cent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Nigeria, Recent Economic Developments and
Short-Term Prospects" (Report 1690a-UNI), dated December 23, 1977, has been
distributed to the Executive Directors. The following paragraphs summarize
and update the major conclusions of that report. Country data are attached
as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        After 12 years of military regime, Nigeria is now embarking on its
final stages in its proposed program for a return to civilian rule. The
present military government is adhering closely to the plan, announced in
July 1975, for restoring constitutional Government by October 1979. A Draft
Constitution has been published and elections for Local Government Councils
have been held. Local Government Councils participated in the election of a
Constituent Assembly which has been reviewing the draft constitution and is
expected to produce a final version by October 1978 when the ban on political
activities is expected to be lifted. Subsequently, elections of Federal and
State Legislatures will lead to a complete transfer of political power to
civilians by October 1979.
Recent Economic Trends
4.        Over the past few years, Nigeria's economic development has been
increasingly dominated by the oil sector. A sharp rise in crude oil prices
during the second half of 1973 led to unprecedented liquidity in the
economy in 1974, when the balance of payments surplus amounted to about



US$5 billion and external reserves rose to the then equivalent of two years'
imports. After reaching a peak of almost 2.3 million barrels/day (mbd) in
1974, however, crude oil production began to drop and has since fluctuated
at significantly lower levels. This drop was attributable partly to con-
servation measures and partly to surplus supply conditions on the world
market. In 1977 oil production averaged slightly over 2 mbd. Notwith-
standing this fall in production, the oil sector accounted for an estimated
30 percent of GDP, 93 percent of export earnings and slightly over 80 percent
of total Government revenues in that year, surpassing the agricultural sector
in all measures of relative importance except employment.
5.        In the first two months of 1978 production has fallen sharply to
1.3 mbd as a result of new production coming on stream from the North Sea
and from Alaska. The petroleum from these two new sources is directly
competitive with Nigerian production in the world sub-market for light
crude oil. From the present perspective it appears that the market for
light crude oil may continue to be weak for some time in the future and
that production in 1978 may average no more Liani 1.5 iibd. Suchi a low level
of production has serious implications for export ea.nings and cannuL but
exacerbate Nigeria's already tight financial constraints.
6.        The level of petroleum revenues has profoundly influenced the fiscal
situation.  Within a single year, from 1973/74 to 1974/75, the revenues of the
Federal Government increased by 140 percent, resulting in a rapid expansion
of expenditures in subsequent years. In the four-year period following
1973/74, recurrent expenditures of the Federal Government increased from
N 700 million to N 2,130 million and capital spending from N 530 million
to N 4,910 million. Most remarkable was the expansion of public sector
investment in such traditional areas as transport, communications and power.
As a result of the large expansion of public investment and services, the
economy has grown rapidly at an estimated 7 percent per annum since 1973.
However, investment in the directly productive sectors, particularly agri-
culture, has been lagging and private investment, which led the initial post
civil-war recovery in the early 1970s, appears to have levelled off in recent
years.
7.        So rapid was the expansion of Government expenditures that the
overall budget surplus of 1974/75 gave way to a deficit the following year,
and the Federal Government accounts have remained in deficit since that
time. Neither revenues nor expenditures grew in 1977/78, implying an overall
deficit of N 1,400 million, equal to that of 1976/77. State Governments'
budgets were also in deficit.  Until recently, the Federal Government has
been able to draw upon its previously accumulated balances to finance a
large part of the budget deficit and domestic borrowing has provided most
of the additional requirements. Now that the Federal Gox,c'rnment's accumu-
lated balances have been significantly depleted, external  ,orrowing is
likely to assume greater importance as a source of financt
8.        There can be little doubt that the rapid expansiL    f Federal
Government expenditures has contributed to a high level of    'ation in



- 3 -
recent years. Price increases have averaged 26 percent per year for the last
three years with a higher rate in 1975 (33.5 percent) and lower rates (22
percent) for the last two years. The Federal Government has sought to moder-
ate the rate of inflation by price controls, a reduction of import tariffs and
an increase in the allocation of foreign exchange for consumer goods imports.
Price controls have, however, resulted in hoarding and in the development of
secondary markets for scarce goods. The effect of liberal import policies
upon aggregate supply has been reduced by severe port congestion and internal
distributional bottlenecks. Furthermore, the Government is now tightening
import policies in the face of increasing balance of payments constraints.
9.        The Federal Government aims to reduce inflation to about 10 percent in
1978. It is doubtful, however, that this target will be achieved. Under the
current 1978/79 Budget announced on April 1, 1978 the Federal Government
announced its intention to keep expenditure levels at around the same as those
of the previous year. However, because of a lower level of expected revenues,
a deficit of about US$4.5 billion is anticipated. This deficit will only be
contained, however, if it is supplemented by more effective planning and
programming procedures to ensure tighter fiscal controls. Measures have been
incorporated in the 1978/79 Budget to increase internally generated revenues
and to shift responsibility for certain investments (e.g. housing and light
industry) back to the private sector.
10.       The rapid expansion of Government expenditures has also placed heavy
demands on the balance of payments.  Commodity imports in 1975 were 120 per-
cent higher than in 1974, reflecting both the sharp rise in domestic expendi-
tures and the higher rate of international inflation. Total expenditure on
food imports has increased tenfold over the last six years while exports of
all agricultural products except cocoa have virtually ceased. A most striking
turnaround has been the country's shift from an exporter to an importer of
edible fats. In 1974, Nigeria earned US$49 million (net) by exporting edible
fats. Two years later exports had fallen and imports had risen to such an
extent that the country lost US$33 million (net) as a result of edible fat
imports. The problem is partly policy induced, but it is clear that more
investments, newer technologies and better management of farms and estates are
needed as well if this import dependency is to be reduced. As a result of
these developments, the 1975 balance of payments surplus dropped to about
US$250 million. In 1976 commodity imports grew by a further 40 percent and
the overall balance of payments swung into deficit by some US$370 million.
That deficit increased further to an estimated US$1 billion in 1977 and
foreign exchange reserves fell to US$4.3 billion at end-1977 -- barely suf-
ficient to cover 4 months' imports of goods and non-factor services.
11.       The Nigerian economy has clearly experienced considerable strain
during the last two years. Recent developments have demonstrated its vulner-
ability to fluctuations in, the international oil market. From the present
perspective it appears that the market for light crude oil may be weak for
some time to come and this will further exacerbate an already difficult
balance of payments situation. Moreover, public sector deficits could



- 4 -
frustrate the Federal Government's efforts to reduce inflation. The Federal
Government is currently addressing some of these issues and the situation
will call for careful economic management in the coming years. Recent develop-
ments, however, have not diminished in any way the basic growth potential
of the economy.
Development Program and Strategy
12.       Nigeria has an estimated population of about 77 million.  GNP per
capita (around US$380 in 1976) remains low despite Nigeria's position as an
oil-exporting country. Furthermore, available information suggests that
living standards of most Nigerians are lower than the average per capita
income may suggest, particularly in rural areas. In the urban centers, the
average income is many times higher but it is unequally distributed and
environmental conditions are poor. It is against a background of urgent
economic and social needs that the Government formulated its Third National
Development Plan, by far the most ambitious planning effort ever attempted in
Nigeria.
13.       The Third National Development Plan covers the five years from
April 1975 to March 1980. Economic growth, in real terms, was targeted
to be of the order of 9.5 percent per annum and gross capital formation
was projected to increase from 21 percent to over 29 percent of GDP during
the Plan period. The public sector investment program, representing about
two-thirds of projected total investment expenditures in the economy, was
formulated mainly as a means of investing in the non-oil sector such as
agriculture, which is dominant, and creating the necessary infrastructure
for future growth.
14.       The new administration which came to power in July 1975 undertook a
comprehensive review of the Third Plan with the aim of re-ordering priorities
to more closely reflect the realities and aspirations of the nation. Although
the bulk of the public sector's program remained unchanged, some low-priority
projects were eliminated and greater emphasis was given to such areas as
agriculture, housing and health. Due to the revisions, total allocations for
the Plan increased from about US$52 billion to US$70 billion, but administra-
tive and executive capacity constraints to implementation are expected to
limit the amount actually spent during the Plan period to about US$45 billion.
15.       The nominal amounts spent for development during the first two
years of the Plan have not deviated much from those anticipated in the Plan
itself though physical performance has been much lower than anticipated,
mainly because of an initial underestimation of costs and an overestimation
of the availability of expertise. It is now apparent that during the next
few years the budgetary situation will not allow completion of the Plan in
real terms. Consequently the Government is reappraising its investment
priorities for a second time.
16.       Although the investment targets of the Third Plan are overambitious
the underlying development strategy is basically sound. The importance of
agriculture and rural development to future growth is generally recognized.
Equally non-controversial is the potential of the agricultural sector in



terms of land available for future development, the scope for applying known
technologies to raise yields and productivity, and the size of the domestic
market for both food and caLsh crops. The scope for industrial growth is
also considerable in a country where the entrepreneurial spirit is widespread.
It is clear, however, that the capability of the public sector in terms of
available manpower and institutions is inadequate compared with the needs.
There is, therefore, an important role for external institutions to play
in assisting the Government to improve its capability for project preparation,
appraisal and implementation.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
17.       As of December 31, 1976 total external public and publicly guar-
anteed debt amounted to an estimated US$1,241 million (including undisbursed).
Debt service in 1977 is estimated at less than 1 percent of gross exports.
Although the Bank Group's share of total external debt (including undisbursed)
at the end of 1976 was estimated at 45 percent, this was evidence more of
Nigeria's low level of external debt than of substantial lending by the Bank.
Nigeria made its first major approach to the international financial market
in 1977 when it negotiated a US$1 billion loan from a syndicated group of
commercial banks. As a result of this borrowing the Bank's share of Nigeria's
total external debt fell from 45 percent to about 26 percent. Bank exposure
in Nigeria during the next decade will depend upon many factors which are dif-
ficult to assess including the progress of project implementation in new areas
of lending. Nevertheless, it is estimated tentatively that debt outstanding
and disbursed by the Bank will fall within the range of 10-15 percent of
Nigeria's total external debt outstanding and disbursed by 1985.
18.       In view of the resource constraint now facing Nigeria (paras. 7-10
above) there will be substantial need for external capital finance during the
next few years. In this respect the financial requirements of the public
investment program are of central importance. During the next five years or
so public sector capital expenditure is tentatively projected to average about
US$9.5 billion annually. Of this amount an average of US$5.25 billion may be
financed from fiscal sources each year. Of the remaining US$4.25 billion
annually, two-thirds may bie borrowed domestically and the remaining third may
be borrowed from abroad.
19.       Disbursement from public sector external borrowing would amount to
about US$7 billion over a five-year period. It would constitute, therefore,
by far the largest element in the overall borrowing needed for balance of
payments purposes (estimated at US$8 billion for the same five-year period).
Beyond 1983 the level of borrowing is expected to decline in real terms as
oil exports improve and the export of liquified natural gas begins. The
Government is aware of the need to structure its borrowing in such a way as
to avoid debt servicing problems in the longer term, and it has expressed
a preference for project-related finance. In the next few years, however, it
may need to rely on non-project financing from commercial banks to mobilize
resources quickly. On this basis it is projected that the debt service ratio
may reach 18 percent by 1983. It should stabilize thereafter.
20.       During the past four years, Nigeria has been a donor as well as
a recipient of external aid. It has increased its subscription to the



- 6 -
African Development Bank and announced that it will no longer seek to borrow
from that institution. It has donated US$1.6 million to the Consultative
Group for Internaticn-oal Agl^ cultural Research; contributed US$52 million to
the OPEC Special Fund; contributed two tranches totalling SDR 300 million to
the IMF Oil Facility; pledged SDR 220 million to the "Witteveen Facility"; and
increased its holding of World Bank debt instruments to US$306.2 million, of
which US$66.2 million is in the form of two-year Central Bank bonds. Nigeria's
future role as a donor will be strongly reduced by its present financial
difficulties, however.
21.       Nigeria has a low level of external indebtedness and modest debt
service obligations. Projections point to a manageable debt service ratio
in the medium term even when due account is taken of Nigeria's increasing
external capital requirements. This indicates that Nigeria is creditworthy
for lending on Bank terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
22.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1978 amounted
to US$857.9 million (net of cancellations). IFC had made three loans to
borrowers totalling US$3.6 million and four equity investments totalling
US$2.4 million. Of these amounts, US$3.4 million have been repaid, cancelled
or sold. The amount of Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed as of March 31,
1978 was US$444.9 million, leaving an undisbursed balance of loans and credits
of US$304.7 million. Transport and power together account for US$408 million,
or somewhat less than 48 percent of total commitments; agriculture for US$236
million, about 28 percent (most of which was committed in the last three
fiscal years); and education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan
for the remaining 24 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in
FY76 were about US$70 million, and US$59 million in FY77. Disbursements are
expected to increase substantially during the next two years because of the
rapid drawdown of the remaining highway, port and power loans. Thereafter,
the rate of disbursement on existing loans will reflect the relatively slow
disbursing nature of agriculture. There have been only two IDA credits to
Nigeria for US$35.5 million; both are fully disbursed. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in
consonance with the Federal Government's recently re-stated priorities under
the Third Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture and its
policy to use the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the produc-
tive capacity of the economy and thereby raise the standard of living of its
population, including the rural poor.
24.       In view of Nigeria's increasing need for external finance and the
interest it has expressed in greater Bank involvement, an expanded Bank



lending program is contemplated. In developing a broader approach to lending
in Nigeria, a central objective is to support the Government's own development
strategy by strengthening national institutions which are central to the
country's development effort. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects which benefit some of the very lowest
income groups. Agricultural lending of this kind will continue to figure
prominently in the future lending program. A third objective of Bank lending
is to support Government's efforts to diversify the economy and reduce the
excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal
revenue. Future lending to industry may include more projects of an expli-
citly export-oriented nature. Government has expressed interest in Bank
finance for a major fertilizer project, which would be geared in part to the
export market. Agricultural lending will also include strengthening the
potential for export crops.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
25.       Approximately 61 percent of Nigeria's population is dependent on
agriculture which accounts for about 23 percent of GDP, 5 percent of total
export earnings and 62 percent of non-oil exports. Agricultural production is
almost entirely in the hands of smallholders whose levels of technology and
productive efficiency are 'Low.
26.       Growth of the agricultural sector has been disappointing, averaging
0.9 percent per annum from 1970-76, equivalent to less than half the average
population growth. This saime period was characterized by rapidly rising
domestic food prices as demand, resulting from population and income growth,
outstripped domestic supply. These years also saw a marked decline in exports
of traditional agricultural export crops other than cocoa. During the same
period total exports (including petroleum) increased from US$1,350 million to
US$10,541 million; importaition of food and live animals rose from US$80
million to nearly US$700 million.
27.       Oil palm grows throughout southern Nigeria but the center of palm
oil production is the former eastern region of which the present Rivers State
formed a part. Approximately 90 percent of production is from semi-wild palm
groves operated by smallholders. Although palm oil production has risen since
the civil war, it has not yet recovered to pre-war levels. Rising population
and incomes have led to a buoyant local demand and soaring prices, and no
significant quantities of palm oil have been exported for several years. The
Bank is already assisting in the development of three oil palm projects in
Nigeria (Loans 1183-UNI, 1191-UNI and 1192-UNI), which after taking account of
delays in implementation should contribute about 32,000 tons of palm oil
per annum in 1985, increasing to about 100,000 tons by 1990. According to
current estimates, domestic demand for palm oil in 1985 will be in the region



- 8 -
of 780,000 to 830,000 metric tons per annum, while the supply capability will
not exceed 640,000 metric tons, thus resulting in a projected import gap of
140,000 to 190,000 tons, even after taking account of the three on-going
Bank-assisted projects approved in FY75. Since palm oil is an integral part
of the basic diet of the bulk of people in Nigeria, there is an urgent need to
reduce current and projected shortfalls in its domestic supply through increased
production resulting from improved schemes such as that proposed in this
report.
Development Strategy
28.       Government is acutely aware of the need to improve performance in
the agriculture sector and to invest the substantial revenues from oil, an
asset that is being depleted, in order to expand and diversify the rest of the
economy in which agriculture is the dominant sector. In the revised Third
Five-Year Development Plan, a total of US$4.8 billion has been earmarked for
the sector to support a targeted growth rate of 5 percent. The Plan includes
development of several major river basins for irrigation, dissemination of
modern farming techniques to smallholders, improved input distribution and
marketing services and support for various integrated development projects.
Rural development will be promoted with complementary investments in secondary
and feeder roads, rural electrification, health and other social services.
29.       Government's main short-term objective is to improve internal price
stability in basic food crops and to ensure adequate food supplies to the
rapidly expanding urban centers. Against this background of assured domestic
food supplies, Government's long-term objectives are to create a prosperous
and efficient agricultural industry sufficient to reduce population drift to
urban centers and to revive the role of Nigeria as an exporter.
Development Constraints
30.       Undoubtedly, the main short-term development constraint in the
sector is the lack of effective agricultural support services. Produce evacua-
tion is hampered by lack of feeder roads, and many farmers have to travel
long distances to the unevenly distributed and unreliable sources of inputs.
Generally, extension services are poor and new technologies that are available
are not reaching farmers in remote rural areas. Consequently, even with
prevailing levels of subsidies on farm inputs, production has not increased
significantly and in some areas has actually declined. A greater effort is
required, particularly by the agricultural research institutions, to improve
the analysis of technical, economic and financial aspects of farming innova-
tions adapted to the different socio-ecological conditions of Nigeria.
31.       Agricultural support services remain almost entirely in the hands
of the public sector and present Government subsidy policies have served to
remove commercial incentive for private sector participation in the distribu-
tion of fertilizers and other supplies and services. While it may have been
possible to support the existing level of subsidies during a period of high
liquidity as a means of redistributing oil revenues to the benefit of the
rural sector and encouraging the adoption of unfamiliar and possibly risky



- 9 -
farm inputs, the current situation would suggest the need for a review of such
policies in the light of the current high demand for farm inputs. In view of
current fiscal constraints and, with the major increases in farm labor costs
and increased commodity prices, the effect of subsidized inputs on farm in-
comes is relatively insignificant. The implications of the Federal Govern-
ment's subsidy policy for the long-term growth of the agricultural sector in
Nigeria have been discussed with Government on a number of occasions and most
recently, within the context of a sector review mission that visited Nigeria
in March 1978. While the Federal Government generally shares the views of the
Bank on the principle at issue, the Government's approach is for a gradual
phasing-out of input subsidies and no firm timetable for this has yet been
established.
32.       It is, in addition, quite clear that, given Nigeria's size and
massive development program, Government will need to progressively divest
itself of responsibilities such as input and produce marketing that can be
handled more efficiently by private enterprises. This would require the
creation of an economic framework appropriate to profitable intervention of
private entrepreneurs in the agriculture service sector and a consequent
redefinition of the role of Federal and State agricultural ministries in that
context.
33.       Agricultural development in Nigeria is taking place against a
background of rapid development in the non-agricultural sectors and rising
standards of education, both of which react against the poor returns to
labor and drudgery associated with traditional agriculture. This has en-
couraged the drift of young people away from rural areas and has resulted
in a sharp rise in wage rates for hired labor. Ultimately, a prosperous
agriculture industry, capable of reducing this drift would only be achieved
through application of advanced farming techniques, which are particularly
adapted to larger farming units, either group or individually operated, as
a complement to similar support for smallholder development.
34.       The Federal Government is generally aware of these constraints and
of the need for further improvements in planning and executive capabilities
at both the State and Federal levels. Furthermore, there is a dearth of
technical and managerial personnel at all levels which suggests a need for
greater rationalization of the responsibilities of public agencies and also,
much closer coordination in the activities of such agencies, if the effective-
ness of available manpower is to be maximized.
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
35.       Since 1971, the 'Bank has been involved in 12 tree or food crop
projects. During this time, Government and the Bank have been able to review
the progress of these projects, and together are generally satisfied with the
approach adopted. In particular, the initial success of the three northern
projects (Loans 1092-UNI, 1099-UNI and 1164-UNI) has demonstrated the advantages
of planned agricultural development implemented under a reformed administrative
structure which allows necessary State control while affording management full
day-to-day operational autonomy. As a result, both Federal and State Govern-
ments are anxious to replicate this structure in other States in the Federation.
There is also increasing interest in the role of the commercial sector in



- 10 -
agriculture which is being actively pursued under these projects. As such,
these projects are acting as catalysts of change on a much wider basis than
might initially ha> '-  n enr  aged.
36.       Experience in implementing the ongoing projects has reinforced the
Bank's concern over a number of critical issues, the resolution of which are
vital for medium- and long-term sector development and which must be taken
into consideration in future Bank operations. Subsidizing inputs (fertilizer,
insecticides, herbicides), irrigation water rates, tractor hire charges,
interest rates and other similar items is encouraging inefficient resource
use, disorting resource allocation, discouraging development of farm support
services by the private sector and straining Government's fiscal and admini-
strative resources. It is estimated that at the current level of subsidies,
fertilizer subsidies alone in 1980 could amount, at projected increases in
utilization, to about N 100 million (about US$150 million) annually. Input
procurement and distribution has been centralized at the Federal level,
resulting in inefficient supply to farmers and a needless additional burden on
the already overextended agriculture public administration. Credit policies
and the performance of the Nigerian Agricultural Bank have not yet provided a
viable financial framework for the development of either smallholder or
commercial agriculture. Market intervention by the commodity boards has not
been fully effective in stabilizing internal prices of agricultural products
(particularly for the non-scheduled food crops), maintaining price incentives
to producers and encouraging a competitive marketing infrastructure. This is
further exacerbated by the inadequate rural feeder road systems. Finally, the
lack of experienced manpower at the managerial, administrative and technical
levels constitute major constraints in the planning and implementation of
development programs.
37.       The resolution of the above issues is a very difficult task that
Government recognizes, and for which it expects the financial and tech-
nical support of the Bank Group. For instance, Government has informally
approached the Bank to review the subsidy, interest rate and pricing policies.
The recent economic mission that visited Nigeria paid some attention to these
problems and a further in-depth review is currently being undertaken as part
of a full scale review of the agricultural sector. The provision of physical
infrastructure including roads, service centers, input distribution and im-
proved extension systems forms a major component of the Bank's existing and
proposed agricultural development projects and constitutes the minimum devel-
opment package to ensure an agricultural takeoff in any given area. As to
management and administration constraints, the short-term solution adopted in
Bank-supported projects in Nigeria is international recruitment and the estab-
lishment of special project management units. But the long-term solution would



- 11 -
necessarily involve the training of Nigerian management staff. To this end,
and at the request of Government, the Bank has recently appraised a project
for the establishment of an Agricultural and Rural Management Training
Institute. The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
created under the Funtua Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1092-UNI) is
currently being expanded with the help of additional assistance from the Bank
provided under the Ayangba Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1455-UNI,
approved by the Board in June 1977) to provide an expanded support service,
including planning for ongoing and future projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       A report entitled "Nigeria Appraisal of Nucleus Estate/Smallholder
Oil Palm Project - Rivers :State", dated May 18, 1978 (1525-UNI) is being
distributed separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached
(Annex III), as is a map of the project area.
39.       The proposed project was identified by the Federal Department of
Agriculture and the Bank's Resident Mission in Lagos in May 1975 and subse-
quently prepared by SOCFINCO Ltd., a consulting firm engaged by the Govern-
ment. The project was appraised in October/November 1976 and negotiated in
April 1978. The Nigerian delegation was led by Mr. S. N. Mbamarah, Principal
Secretary, External Finance Division, Federal Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
40.       The project area covers some 2,800 km  in the Ahoada, Ikwerre-Etche
and Port Harcourt City Local Government Council areas of Rivers State. The
proposed loan would assist Nigeria's Rivers State Government to finance the
planting of some 20,000 ha of high yielding oil palm on a nucleus estate and
associated smallholdings as Phase I of a program ultimately scheduled to plant
40,000 ha of oil palm over the period 1978-1986. In addition, the project
would provide for the improvement and/or reconstruction of about 400 km of
earth roads serving the smallholder community; feasibility studies for a
second phase oil palm project; a coconut project identification and prepara-
tion study and the establishment of a 120 ha coconut seed garden.
41.       At full maturity the project would provide wage and salaried employ-
ment for about 2,000 people. Based on an average farm size of 2 ha about
5,000 families would benefit, and with an average family size of 7 persons, a
total of some 35,000 people would benefit directly from the smallholder
component.
42.       The project would be carried out over a six and half year develop-
ment period (1978-1984) and would include:



- 12 -
(i) New Planting/Replanting Smallholdings:
(a) establishing a Smallholder Management Unit (SMU)
within the Rivers State Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources to implement the smallholder
planting program (10,000 ha);
(b) operating a grant/credit scheme for participating
smallholders;
(c) training staff and smallholders at selected insti-
tutions and through in-service courses; and
(d) improving about 400 km of earth roads to facilitate
all-weather distribution of inputs and collections
of fresh fruit bunches from smallholders.
(ii) Establishing a Nucleus Estate:
(a) planting 10,000 ha by the State-owned company
RISONPALM Ltd. using a management agency for imple-
mentation;
(b) constructing and operating one palm oil mill to
process estate and smallholder production; and
(c) establishing a fruit collection system to be operated
by RISONPALM Ltd. for estate and smallholder produc-
tion.
(iii)  Coconut project identification and preparation
study and establishing a coconut seed garden of
120 ha over the period 1978 through 1982 (12 man-
months of consultants services).
(iv) Feasibility study for a Phase II Oil Palm project
(6 man-months of Consultants services).
Project Execution
43.       A summary showing the expected scheduling of project planting is
as follows:
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982       Total
Nucleus Estate            500  2,200  3,300  4,000       -      10,000
Smallholders              200  1,000  2,200  3,300  3,300    10,000
Total                700  3,200  5,500  7,300  3,300    20,000



Smallholders
44.       The smallholders c:omponent under the project would be managed by
a Smallholder Management Unit (SMU) to be established within the Rivers State
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). SMU would have its
headquarters at Ahoada with regional units located at Ahoada, Isiokpo and
Okehi. SMU would have a high degree of financial and administrative autonomy
and would be responsible for appraising smallholder applications in consul-
tation with cooperatives and for supervising the technical and financial
services involved in the field establishment and post-maturity stages. A
Steering Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary of MANR and comprising
representatives of relevant government agencies would be responsible for
determination of policy, aplpointment of key staff, and the approval of devel-
opment operations, programs, budgets, annual reports and accounts of SMU.
The establishment of the SNU Steering Committee would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (see Section 6.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement).
45.       SMU would be staffed primarily with existing MANR personnel or staff
recruited locally. Senior Management Staff at headquarters would comprise a
General Manager, Controller of Field Operations, Controller of Finance and a
Road Engineer and would be filled with staff whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of service are satisfactory to the Bank (see Section
2.06(a) of the Project Agreement). Every effort would be made to fill these
positions through the recruitment of suitably qualified Nigerians failing
which, the posts would be filled through international recruitment. The
appointment of key SMU Senior Management Staff detailed above would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(e) of the Loan Agreement).
46.       The SMU planting program of 10,000 ha would be carried out over the
period 1978 through 1982. The total cost of clearing, planting and maintain-
ing oil palms for four years until the plantings come into production are
estimated in constant 1976 terms at about US$1,035 per hectare. The project
would provide grants and credits to smallholders who plant or replant a
minimum of 1 ha or a maximum of 10 ha. Participants would be expected to
be members of registered or officially recognized cooperatives and would be
required to sign a grant/credit agreement with SMU and their cooperatives,
the terms and conditions of which will be acceptable to the Bank (see Schedule
2(1) to the Project Agreement). SMU would distribute (a) as a grant and in
kind, palm seedlings, cover-crop seeds, wire netting, fertilizers and chemicals
to a value of US$400 per ha; and (b) as credit, in cash, US$462 per ha for
payment of labor. The credit would bear interest at 9.5 percent per annum and
would be for a period of 13 years, including 7 years grace. Each smallholder
would contribute about US$169 per ha in the form of labor and tools. Monthly
repayment would be calculated on a per hectare basis and deducted from the
proceeds of each smallholder's fresh fruit bunch (ffb) sales. In constant
1976 terms monthly repayments by the smallholder would amount to US$13.86 per
ha and the cooperative would repay to SMU US$12.32 per ha equivalent to an
annual interest of 7.5 percent. The Grant/Credit Agreement between SMU, the
Cooperative and the Smallholder would include an undertaking by the smallholder
to sell his ffb to the nucleus estate mills (see Schedule 2(3) to the Project
Agreement).



- 14 -
Nucleus Estate
47.       The estat~- -nnonpt would form part of the oil palm development
program of RISONPALM Ltd., a recently established State-owned limited lia-
bility company. Development of the estate would be carried out under a
management contract with an internationally recognized firm acceptable to
the Bank. RISONPALM Ltd. would develop 10,000 ha east of the Elele oil palm
estate between Umu Dioga in the West and Ozuzu in the East. Planting would
be carried out from 1978 through 1981 as Phase I of a 20,000 ha nucleus
estate program. To attract a resident estate labor force for maintenance and
harvesting, 400 houses would be built, each provided with a 0.2 ha vegetable
plot. As labor is expected to be in short supply, it will not be possible
to undertake land clearing manually and consequently, provision has been
made in project costs for heavy equipment to be used for land clearing on
force account by the estate.
48.       Fruit production is not likely to commence until 1982, the last
year of project development and would be processed initially at the Elele
plantation mill. One new palm oil mill would be constructed under the
project commencing in 1980 and a second after completion of Phase I of the
project. They would be phased into operation over the period 1982 to 1989 as
follows:
1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Required Capacity
(tons ffb/hour)               2.8   7.3  18.7  36.0  47.7  56.1  60.2  62.5
Installed Capacity
(tons ffb/hour)
Mill 1                   -   10    20    40       40    40    40    40
Mill 2                   -    -      -      -     10    20    30    40
Total                  -   10    20    40       50    60    70    80
The design specifications and tender procedures for the construction of the
project mill would be prepared by consultants acceptable to the Bank, to be
engaged by RISONPALM Ltd. and assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (see Section 2.03(b) of the Project Agreement).  The design and
phasing of the mill must be related to anticipated estate and smallholder
production levels and it would be a condition of disbursement against invest-
ment in the mill that confirmation of this requirement had been obtained from
both SMU and the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) of the Federal Department
of Agriculture (see Schedule I para 4 (iii) to the Loan Agreement). RISONPALM
Ltd. would also be required to adopt a pricing formula for purchase of ffb
from smallholders as determined, in accordance with principles acceptable to
the Bank, by a Price Policy Committee to be established by January 1, 1982 in
a form satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (see Sections 2.11 (a) and (b) of the Project Agreement).



- 15 -
49.       SMU would be required to ensure that a minimum percentage of esti-
mated smallholder ffb production, to be agreed with RISONPALM Ltd. would
be delivered to the mills. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations (see Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
50.       At full maturity annual production would be 125,000 tons of ffb from
the nucleus estate and 100,000 tons of ffb from the smallholdings, with 800
tons and 600 tons, respectively, being collected daily in peak months. Collec-
tion points would be set up such that no farmer would have to bring his produce
further than 600 m. RISONPALM Ltd. would be responsible for the establishment
and operation of the oil mills and the fruit collection system.
51.       Senior and middle-level SMU and nucleus estate staff would receive
training at the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute which is
expected to be established by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development. Technical training would be provided for senior officers,
nursery staff, field staff and smallholders of the SMU. Staff would also be
trained elsewhere in West Africa and provision has been made in project costs
for the training of some senior staff possibly in the Far East. Agricultural
Officers (AO) and other intermediate staff would be given 3-6 months training
in planting techniques and management on large successful oil palm development
schemes or commercial farms. Agricultural Assistants (AA) supervising nurs-
eries would receive twelve months special training in nursery techniques and
other AAs would be given a 2-3 month intensive course in modern planting
techniques at the Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) followed by
a similar period of practical training in the supervision of field operations
on existing estates. In addition, all SMU field staff would be trained in
smallholder appraisal and grant/credit supervision procedures. Smallholder
training would be developed on a group activity basis with some courses of 1
to 2-day duration and would include: (a) outlining application procedures and
grant/credit terms and conditions for participation in the scheme; and (b)
demonstrating planting, maintenance and harvesting practices.
52.       As stated earlier, the proposed project represents Phase I of a
program ultimately designed to plant 40,000 ha of oil palm during the period
1978 through 1986, and included in project costs is provision of US$67,000
to cover the cost of six man-months consultants' services for the prepara-
tion of Phase II of the project scheduled to commence in 1983. The study
would pay particular attention to the expansion of smallholder oil palm plant-
ings and the construction of further palm oil milling capacity. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the terms of reference for the proposed
study and the consultants chosen to undertake it would be acceptable to the
Bank (see Section 2.07(a) of the Project Agreement).
Coconut Project Identification and Preparation
Study and Establishment of Coconut Seed Garden
53.       The project would also provide for about 12 man-months of consul-
tants' services amounting to about US$134,000 to finance a study in 1978 aimed



- 16 -
at (a) assessing the prospects for coconut development in the tree crop belt
of Nigeria, including assessing Kaincope disease and (b) preparing of pro-
posals for smallholder and estate coconut development. Assuming the recom-
mendations of the proposed study are positive, establishment of a coconut
seed garden would be scheduled for initial planting in 1979. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the consultants selected for the coconut
project identification and preparation study would be acceptable to the Bank,
and that the results of the study would be submitted to the Bank for comments.
It would be a condition of disbursement against the coconut seed garden
that the coconut development proposals had been agreed by the Bank (see
Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement and Schedule 1 paragraph 4(iv) of the
Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Federal Department of
Agriculture established in Benin City in 1975 under Loan 1183-UNI (Mid-Western
(Bendel) State Oil Palm Project) and responsible for monitoring the financial
and technical performance of the on-going tree crop projects in Nigeria would
also be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project.
Project Costs
55.       Project costs over the six and a half year period 1978-1984, includ-
ing the start-up costs in 1977/78, are estimated at US$83.0 million of which
the foreign exchange component would be US$30.0 million. Project costs in-
clude a 5 percent physical contingency. Price contingencies are calculated
on base line costs plus physical contingency and allow for increases in costs
,f: (a) vehicles, equipment, utilities, furniture, and farm inputs of 4.5
percent in the second half of 1977, 7.0 percent in 1978, 6.5 percent in 1979
and 6 percent thereafter; (b) housing, buildings, oil mill, construction of
roads and consultants' services of 4.5 percent in July-December 1977, 8 per-
cent in 1978, 7.5 percent in 1979 and 7 percent thereafter; and (c) salaries
and operating costs of 3.5 percent in late 1977 and 7 percent thereafter. A
price contingency of 20 percent compounded annually has been applied for all
local costs, other than salaries and hired labor, to account for internal
inflation. 1/ Of total base line costs, 68 percent is for the nucleus estate,
2 percent for the coconut seed garden and 30 percent for the SMU. Contingen-
cies are equivalent to 34 percent of total costs.  The proposed Bank loan of
US$30.0 million would be equivalent to the foreign exchange component, includ-
ing US$2.2 million in 1977/78, the start-up year, and be equivalent to approxi-
mately 36 percent of total project costs. The loan would be for a period of
20 years, including five years of grace. The proceeds of the Bank loan would
be onlent to the Rivers State Government under a subsidiary loan agreement.
The Federal Government would, in addition, allocate Rivers State Government
the sum of US$20.5 million, equivalent to 25 percent of total project cost.
The completion of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank would
1/   Special allowance for inflation relating to local labor costs has been
made by costing posts at the maximum of existing salary scales.



- 17 -
be a condition of loan effectiveness (see Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agree-
ment). The remainder of project costs would be financed by the Rivers State
Government (US$30.9 million, equivalent to 37 percent of total project costs)
and by participating smallholders (US$1.2 million or 2 percent of total costs)
in the form of labor and tools. A summary of the proposed financing plan
including contingencies for the project is as follows:
Proposed Financing Plan
---------------- US$ Million ----------------
Total     IBRD      FMG      RSG   Smallholder
Nucleus Estate                     37.2     15.5      9.4      12.3         -
Preparation Study and
Coconut Seed Garden               1.2      0.6      0.3      0.3          -
Smallholder Management Unit        16.1      3.6      3.7       7.5        1.3
Base Line Costs                    54.5     19.7    13.4       20.1        1.3
Unallocated                        28.5      10.1     7.1      10.8        0.5
Project Cost                       83.0     29.8    20.5      30.9         1.8
Percentage                         100       36       25        37          2
56.       The Rivers State Government would retain part of the Bank loan and
Federal Government's funds as shown in the above table for financing the SMU
and coconut components; it would onlend to RISONPALM Ltd. (or, as necessary,
invest as equity): (a) a portion of the Bank loan amounting to US$15.5
million; (b) a State contribution of US$12.3 million; (c) US$9.4 million of
the Federal Government's contribution to project costs. The portion provided
as a loan would be for a period of 25 years, including 10 years grace, and at
an interest rate of 9 percent. The above contributions would be in addition
to the State's minimum equity investment of US$6.5 million in the company.
The completion of a subsidiary loan and equity subscription agreement between
the Rivers State Government and RISONPALM Ltd. would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (see Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
57.       To facilitate project implementation in 1977/78, the start-up year,
the recruitment of international staff is already underway and orders for
heavy equipment have been placed for use in land clearing prior to the 1978
planting season. Retroactive financing of up to US$1,250,000 is proposed to
cover the cost of internationally recruited staff (US$450,000) and the pur-
chase of heavy equipment (IJS$800,000) (see Schedule I paragraph 4(i) to the
Loan Agreement).
Markets
58.       In 1975, palm oil production in Nigeria was estimated at 500,000
tons of which all but 35,000 tons was consumed domestically. By 1978 all
production was being consuimed locally and exports had ceased. This is in
marked contrast to the pre-civil war pe-riod when exports were considerable,
for example, in 1965 production was 574,000 tons and exports were 152,000
tons. New plantings made in war-damaged oil palm areas are now coming into
bearing and production in 1985 is estimated at 640,000 tons per annum. How-
ever, assuming a population growth rate of 2.5 percent annually a GNP growth



- 18 -
rate of 6.4 percent per annum to 1980 and 4.0 percent thereafter, and allowing
for some substitution for palm oil, total domestic demand for palm oil in 1985
is projected to be at around 800,000 tons. This indicates that, without the
proposed project, there is likely to be a supply deficit of up to 200,000 tons
of palm oil per annum in 1985.
59.       Marketing Boards, now redesignated as Commodity Boards, are autho-
rized to purchase all palm oil and kernels offered for sale. Under these
arrangements the Boards have in the past purchased for export palm oil which
was surplus to domestic requirements. Palm oil available for export in Rivers
State has declined rapidly in recent years and is now non-existent. However,
although the domestic crushing of palm kernels has expanded in recent years,
the bulk of these still continues to be exported. The Marketing Boards, which
largely functioned in the past as a taxation mechanism rather than as a price
stabilization agency, have jealously guarded their rights to purchase palm oil
that is surplus to domestic needs and, in particular, have considered estate
production to be for export. In recent years, however, estates have sold palm
oil in the domestic market although the Marketing Boards have retained their
purchasing authority. Given this situation, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that RISONPALM Ltd. would be permitted to sell project produced
palm oil at the most favorable market value (see Section 2.11(c) of the
Project Agreement).
Procurement
60.       Vehicles, tractors, fertilizers, chemicals, road-making equipment,
other equipment and farm inputs valued at about N 10.3 million (US$15.8 mil-
lion) net of contingencies would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines for contracts over US$75,000, and
through competitive bidding and in accordance with local procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank for contracts of less than US$75,000. For contracts under
US$10,000, direct competitive shopping would be employed. Domestically manu-
factured goods would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable
import duty, whichever is lower. Experience has shown that the contracts for
houses, stores, and buildings, which are valued at N 6.0 million (US$9.2 mil-
lion), are not attractive to foreign contractors due to dispersed locations,
the small size of contracts, and the competitiveness of local contractors.
Such contracts would therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding. Construction of roads would be undertaken by the project on force
account in view of the absence of local contractors working on earth road
construction. A large part of project cost would be salaries, operating
expenses, training costs and field establishment costs valued at N 16.9 mil-
lion (US$26.0 million) which are unsuitable for competitive bidding. The
service of consultants and expatriate staff valued at N 2.3 million (US$3.5
million) would be obtained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank. An amount of N 18.5 million (US$28.5 million) would cover contingencies.
Disbursement
61.       The proceeds of the Bank loan (US$30.0 million) would be disbursed
over a six and a half year period (1978-1984) as follows:



- 19 -
Category 1 - Nucleus Estate:
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of field estab-
lishment-(excluding labor, locally procured seeds and
cover crops and land acquisition), housing, civil works,
staff salaries, offices, stores, and other buildings or
(if locally procured) 35 percent of these expenditures
totalling US$8.1 million;
(b) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of vehicles and
equipment, international staff salaries, consultants,
feasibility study, training, management fee and operating
costs or (if locally procured) 75 percent of these costs
totalling US$12.8 million.
Category 2 - Coconut Seed Garden:
100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the coco-
nut seed garden or (if locally procured) 45 percent of
these expenditures totalling US$0.8 million.
Category 3 - Smallholcder Management Unit
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs of field estab-
lishment (excluding labor, locally procured seeds and
cover crops), and housing or (if locally procured) 50
percent of these costs totalling US$1.9 million;
(b) 100 percent of tlhe foreign exchange costs of road con-
struction (excluding local staff salaries), staff
training, international staff salaries, vehicles and
equipment, consultants and operating costs or (if locally
procured) 30 percent of these expenditures, totalling
US$3.7 million.
Category 4 - An unallocated amount of US$2.7 million.
62.       Disbursements would be fully documented.  Those against field
establishment and operating costs in Categories 1 (a and b) and 3 (a and b)
would be against certificates of expenditures to be retained by the nucleus
estate or SMU for review by supervision missions and auditors.
Economic Rate of Return and Benefits
63.       The economic rate of return from investment in the project is
estimated at 15 percent.



- 20 -
64.       The project's principal direct benefits would be the additional
annual production of 47,250 tons of palm oil and 10,126 tons of kernels at
full maturity in 1990 and thereafter. In world prices (constant 1976 terms)
this would have a value of US$23.0 million. Assuming a farmgate price of
N 40.0 per ton of ffb, the gross return (in constant 1976 terms) from 2 ha
would start at N 254.0 in the first year of production (year 4) rising to
N 578.0 during the farmers' repayment period (years 7-12) and thereafter
would average about N 814.0. These returns compare favorably with those
obtainable from alternative tree or food crops even where improved manage-
ment and planting material are used. A 2 ha planting would require about
60 man-days a year for maintenance and harvesting, and gross returns per
man-day would rise rapidly from N 3.9 in the first year of production (year
4) to an average of N 8.6 during years 7-12 of loan repayment and N 12.9
thereafter.
65.       At full maturity, there would be about 2,000 full time employment
opportunities on the estate, in the mills and with SMU; based on an average
holding of 2 ha, 5,000 families would benefit and, assuming an average family
size of 7 some 35,000 people in all would benefit from the smallholder com-
ponent of the project. Some of the more important secondary benefits that
would accrue from the project would include: (a) the training of a con-
siderable number of local personnel in agricultural extension and management
techniques and administration of agricultural credit schemes; (b) the improve-
ment of some 400 km of roads, including the construction of a bridge at a
critical river crossing, thereby improving farm-to-market transportation
facilities for the benefit of the entire project area population; and (c)
a basis for diversification in the cropping patterns in Rivers State and
elsewhere in southern Nigeria if the proposed coconut feasibility study
confirms that coconut development is viable.
Risks
66.       Any agricultural project dealing mainly with smallholders, the
success of which would depend largely on adequate rainfall as well as the
timely control of a number of husbandry operations, involves risks. How-
ever, it is believed that the project would minimize such risks, given the
provision of competent management and intensive field supervision. Risks
due to technical weaknesses are less as the technical packages are fairly
simple and based on research data and experience obtained elsewhere in
Nigeria. A major advantage for project implementation will be the experience
to date with the ongoing southern tree crop projects.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the draft E'roject Agreement between the Bank and the Rivers
State of Nigeria, the report: of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
68.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are de-
scribed in paragraphs 44 to 59 of this report. Additional conditions of
effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a)  separate Bank accounts for the nucleus estate and SHU
have been opened and adequately funded;
(b)  SMU has been established in a form satisfactory to
the Bank, its senior management positions filled
and SMU's Steering Committee has been established;
(c)  a subsidiary loan. agreement between FMG and Rivers
State which would cover both onlending of the Bank
loan and FMG allocation has been signed;
(d)  a subsidiary loan and equity subscription agreement
between Rivers State Government and RISONPALM Ltd.
have been signed; and
(e)  the Management Agreement for the nucleus estate has
been signed and the key staff appointed.
69.       I am satisfied tlhat the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1978



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 4if 4. pages
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU XM2)                                         ---------
NIGERIA                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       923.8                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      h45.0                        lqr^        1970   ESTIMATE            PAKISTAN       GHANA           MEXICO *
---    -- - - - _-- _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _   _  ______ _9_     ___ ___
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       110.0      190.0      380.0               110.0        430.0       690.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             51.6       66.2       77.0                 59.8          8.6        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                         56.0       72.0       83.0                 74.0        36.0         26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO        125.0       152.0      173.0                246.0        63.0         52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           49.3       49.8       49.3                 47.6        49.8         43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            26.9       24.5        22.7                20.1        24.4         10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         207.0         ..      163.0                124.3          ..        68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         33.5       38.5       41.0                 47.4        41.5        62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RAe                   ..        3.3        3.3                  3.7         3.2          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                   1.9        2.5        2.5                  2.9         2.6          3.5
URBAN                                   5.0        5.0         5.0                 4.0         4.5          4.8
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            18.0        23.0       26.0                24.8         28.4        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         43.0/a    44.8        45.1                 43.4        46.9        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                         54 9/a   53.0         52.6                 52.7        49.5        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                       2.1i/      2.2        2.3                  3.9         3.6          3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.8/a      0.9         0.9                 0.9          1.0         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4/a      1.2/a       1.2/a               1.8/a        1.4         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ,,       12.9      101.1                   ..        10.9         55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         ..          ..                  ..         2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          18300.0/a 25600.0  29900.0                 18100.0      3300.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           71.0       67.0       61.0                 57.0        54.0/a      45.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)               ..         ..          .2 ..                          8.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 .                                       17.8                     27.9
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 .                                       41.8                    58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                           ..                            9                          .4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..                                      i20.2                    10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS                ..         .,         ..                  .,           .,        37.1
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                  ..           ..         0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              56900.0/b 24660.0/b 22000.0/b              4310.o/b  12950.0/b   1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          7640.0/F  5070.0/'F  4200.0/5              8440.0/i   1070.0/b   1620.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            2770.0/Wc 2220.0    1700.0/F               1870.0       760.0 -    960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          91.0/d    89.0         88.0                 99.0        99.0      105.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               50.0/U        ..       46.3                59.0         46.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           9.7          .         9.3                14.0/C       10.0/c      28.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ,,          ,.         ..                17.4/d        ..         9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        36.0        34.0       49.0                44.0         61.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        3.0        4.0       10.0                14.0         11.0        22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               14.0       14.0       14.0                10.0/e       15.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                        5.0       8.5         3.8/c               2.0        23.0         24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  25.0/e       ..          ,.                20.0        25.0        76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  3.0          ..         ..                  ..          .,         2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                          ..         ..         ..                  ..           ..        61.0/C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  81.0 /f       ,,         ..                   ,.          ..        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                       ..         ..         ..                  ..           ..        28.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            4.0       23.0       69.0                  ..         78.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             0.7        1.0        2.1                  3.0         5.0        24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             13.0       28.0       51.0                 67.0       338.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 0.1        0.3         0.3                 0.6 /c      0.4         3.2
___________________________________________________________________________________________----_ -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 23 -
tNh!I 3
Pge 2 of  pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, date  for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971  and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1976.
- Mexico has been selected as an-objective country because its per capita income in the early 1970's, is about twice Nigeria's projected per c-pit-
i-rue in the mid-198O's at 1971 prices. Also Macicr's present level of development is a realistic target for Nigeria through recuainder of this
century.
NIGERIA      1960    /a  1953;    /b  1962;    /c  Including ea-Nerth Careroens under Nritish adninistretion;    /d  1961-63;    /e  Prior to 1965;
/f Lngos only.
1970     a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE;      /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1972;    /c  Certain fields of
study previously classified under other second level education of a vocational or technical nature are now
reported under general education.
PAKiSTAN    1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;
/c  Includes data for Bangladesh;    /d  Excluding population of D. I. ian and Pesbhwcr Divisions;    /e  Up te satricelation
(10 grades).
GhANA        1970    Ia  EOluti ..  unemaployed;    lb  Registered, not all practicing in the country;    /c  1966-68.
MEXICO       1970    /a  Including .onistant nurses;          /b  1964-66;    /c Inside only.
RN, April 18, 1978
DRPflflTIOPG OF SOCiAL MNDICATORS
Lacd AreO   (thou kio2)                                                                       Population per nur-irg peraon - Populatiop divided by ounber of practicing
Tot.l - Total surface area coopricing land area sod inland watere.                              asi  and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "rectified" nurnes, end
kgric. - Hst re .cent osti.nte of sgricoltural area need te-porarily or perma-                  awailiary personnel with training or erperience.
tnitly for  -rops, pentore-, narket & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Ponultin pnr hoepital bed - PopulatIon divided by nmaber of hospitrs  bedn
available in public end private general and sperislieed bospits1 end
NP por ca-pit  (US$) - GNP per capits esrti.tee at -orrrnt market prices,                      rehabilitation centers; e.nlodes nursing hoaes end ertsblisahe.ts for
csrulultrd by .sne convers ion  ethod as World BSek Atlas (1974-76 basis);                    catodial end preventive cars.
1960; 1970 sod 1976 date.                                                                   Per -spite supply of cslories (2 of reoqire-ents) - Ceeputed free energy
equivalent of net food sopplias availeble in country per capita per day;
Topuilotin sod vital statistic                                                                  available supplies conprise dunastic production, imports lees exports, end
oculatrot o(lid-ear  illion) - An of July first:  if nort -vilsble, aserage                     changes in stork; net eupplies exclude enil feed, seeds, quantities ned
of two nnd-year ecti.otee; 1960, 1970 sod 1976 deta.                                          in food pro.eestlg and losses in distribution; requirmeote were estiRuted
by FAO be.ed On phyoiological needs for nornal activity sod health consid-
Populatio- den.ity - per *quare k. - Mid-year population per square kilos,ter                   ering environmental temperature, body weights, ego and .e.  distributions of
(100 hectarea) of total area.                                                                 population, asd sllowiang 1lO  for want, at household level.
Populetion d.e.ity - per  qu.are on. of agric. land - CoPputed en above for                   Per capita supply of protein (granu per day) - Protein content of per capit.
ucrirtitural land  nly.                                                                       net supply of food per day; mat supply of food is defined  s shove; require-
matr Nor all rounutries established by USDA E,ronoir RS..e.rnh Serviren
Viral ttatiattct                                                                                provide for a ninis    allowance of 60 green of total protein per day, and
Crode birth ratn per thousnd, average - Annual live birthe per thousnnd of                      20 grave  of sniml and pulse  protein, of which 10 green should be onil
nid-voor popolatiur; ten-year orith-etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these standards are lower then thoee of 75 gran- of total protein
aod fiv--yrar aoertge erdine in 1975 for  not rncnt entintn.                                  sod 23 greno of aniaol protein as an average for the world, proposed by PAO
Crude death -ate re  t housand overoge - Arnoul deaths per thosand of eid-yeer                  in the Third World Food Survey.
pop.lotion; ten-year *ritheotic  -veregne  eodiDg in 199S0 and 1970 and five-               Per cat its protein supply free animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year cverag  erding in 1975 for  .oet recent estiate,                                         derived from animals and pulses in gream  per day.
lofart o.rtoliry rere 1/thou) - Annual deathn of infants under one ye-r of age                Death rate (/thou) sees 1-4 - Annual deeths per tbeoussd in age group 1-4
per thoousad live births.                                                                     years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life o-peranvy ot birth (yr.) -         Average rusber of years rf life remaining at            malnutrition.
bIrch; uouolly five-year --cracen ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing cotntrui-                                                                               Education
Grout reprodnction rutr -  -verge nteebr of live doughterea  womna  will bear                 Adijted enrolLment natio - pritary nchbrl - Enrollnent of a11 agen on per-
in hor normal reprodortive period if oh. experierces presenrt  ge-epecific                    centege of priosry school-ege population; includes children *ged 6-11 yesrn
ltotility r3trs; -sully finn-yeer overagne  ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975                     but sdjuoted for different lengths of primnry eduoation; for countries with
fur de-eLoping cosntrier.                                                                     univer--l educ-tio, enrolloent ay eone.d 1007 since anne pupils ore belo
vopulattict crouth rate (7) - total - Ceepoond  -nnusi growth rates of mid-year                 or sbove the official  chool age.
populatlo- for 1950-60. 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondse, sohool - Computed as above; secondary
Po.plotioc growth rote (7.) - urbhn - Computed like growth rats of total                        education requires at Ieast four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitilvr  of  rban  reaso my affect corparebility of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training in-trortions for pupils
datra a-og countries.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence morass are generally enloded.
Urbua l oPulucio  (/. oi total) - Ratio of urban to torsl population; different               Years of schooling provided (firet and second levels) - Tota1 years of
definitions of urban reso mAy affect conparability rf dets among countries,                   schooling; at asnondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
eaopltaly aeludd
Age stc-trutr  (percent) - Children (0-14 years), w-rkig-age (15-64  asra),                   y taiael arel=a  Iof ..n.d ryl - Vocatiooml institutions includ
and -rctrod (65 yeare and over) sa perctagee of mid-year ppularttl.                           tnehaicl, ndua trrial e   tbr progrs whih npecte Independetly ora
Aoo depe-deocy ratio - Ratio  of popolstin under 15 and 65 and over to thos                     departments of ancundery institutions .
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literary rtat (t) - Ltrstet  adlts (abl  to rd and wite) as per-
Ecoc-mic doorcdocy rotio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                      .enetge of totaL adult pcpulation eged 13 yeers and over.
c,h  luboc force iG  age gro-;p of 15-6h  yeers.
fac       -iSo plocoAio-accepto  (c-ct-t-per   thou) - Curulolve nut rer of acceptors         Hoa-ing
of  utrcb-cootrol devicen coder .uspices of notional family planning prograp                Persons per ropm  (urban) - Averoge nomber of persons per room in occupied
ailv  inei_ngv.o                                                                              conventional dwellings in urban erean; dwnllin.g  esnlude non-permanent
foodo  lacit- onre  (% of earrled wo Po; -Peretncgno of nare    eno of                          structures and unoncpted ports.
hild-bearing age (15-44 yesrs) who u-e birth-control devices to *11 married                 Ocuvpied dwellings without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
umuoc ho nama em  group.                                                               in urban and rurel areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of a11 ocnupied dwellings.
inrloc,tcc c                                                          Ae~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cee to ele.rrirlty ft of all dwelings.) - Conenioe ..e. iog  weth
Totol laboo force (thoCtund) - cFronotcally  -ti- perons, incIuding armed                               elec tri city (i living qu a .   asn pernnt of  etronl dwellings l  urban sod
forces -od  cerployod but caolading ho.s.wices, students,  tc.; definitionsr  ar eas.
1Dvari-    ooctrin  ore not co-parable.                                                    Rural dellin        ntputed as  bove for ra
tabor force tc ogricult- re (7) - Agric-ltural labor force (in fanning, forestry,               dwellings only.
h-tcing and firhing) so pnrcentage of trort 1abor force.
ucocuoud (7_ of labor forcr) - Lnemployed ore  1us1ly defined as persona who                  Consuntion
arc cb;c ard =illnig to take a job, out of a job on   given day, remaind out               Radio reci-vrs fe    tho  noe   - 6l1 typn   f receivers for rdie brodcasts
If a s0,ot/-d  .eekilg work fcr a specified olniinti  period not .es.eding one               to geereal poblic pr thousand of populartio; ...lodes foniobnod rcivers
-ck, cos not be unrphrable between coontries due to different definitiona                     in contries and in years wan. registration of redlo  etss . icnJ  effect;
fi cccplcycd ond source of dots, nog., oployoent office atatiatin, e_mple                 da  four f- es- yan  c  may not bhen  nmpsrablt   since most -ontes  abollehtd
ccrooyos r,mopnlsory unoploynmct irurance                                                     l s oi    r n yg.
P'asenger tars leer thou pop) - Passenger oars comprise mator cars seatin
Icordit-cIhctioc  - Pncc-tcga of pri-tce inconea iboch in cash and hind)                    Iee  tha  eight prsons; e..clude  emboIanRes, hearse  and mIlItary
recei-ed by richeot 52, richest 207, poorest 20%, and poer-at 40  of house-                 vehicles.
holds I                                                                                      lectricity (khh/yr per rap) - AnnuaI coonomption of indostrial  csrcial,
- `1.rd  --hil                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~public and peiv-te electricity in kilowatt bourn per ..pft., generally
andrr5bori,.o of land u,onrehio-Prcencoges of land owned by we althiest 10%                   b s ed on prodution data, withutr a1lowance for loaes in grids but alow-
and pooroer 10N  of lend owoero.                                                             in  for itports end exports of alntricity.
Hepith zzd N,,criti..                                                            Nawsettprine (kg/yr ner uses  - Pnr  -apit  nool cene,anprioo tL. ktilcrma
Irot;h .;od NutritIon                                                  estim~~~~~~~ ~~~~~atedfe  domestic prodo"pien. plus net mpnraf  ewprnt
Poyybopattu per physicist - Ppoplation divided by numb-r of practicing                                  d frpm d..                                 rt. of ne-print
phyottcta qualified free a nedical school at oni-eraity level.



- 24 -
Annex I
Page 3 of pages 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1970-76            1J7L               l97r
GCMP at Market Prices          31302        100.0                          7.4                 3.7             9.4
Gross Domestic Investment      10720         34.2                        21.0                 41.6           28.4
Gross National Saving          10515         33.6                        31.0               -17.3            23.0
Current Account Balance         -352          1.1
Exports of Goods, NFS          10541         33.7                        16.6               - 9.0            41.7
Imports of Goods, NFS          10446         33.4                        20.8                36.4            18.3
OU1TUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor For1ce-/                  V. A. Per Worker
_ Ln.                             Mln.                             US-$,
i,aiculture                     6834       23                   18.3       61                    373          32
Industry                      14907        49                    5.2       17                   2867         283
services                        8517       28                    5.0       17                   1703         168
Tikallocated                                                     1.4        5
Total/Average
30258      100.0                  29.9     100.0                 1012         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Govermient                              Central Government
[ N   Hln.)      S ofGDP                     (T   -M1n.)          % of GDP
1976/7        1976/7  1974/5-76/77               1976/7      1976/7    1974/5-76/7
Current Receipts                     7500           38.0       37.6                  5630          28.5          28.4
Current Expenditure                  3332          16.9        16.4                  2132          10.8          1(.l
Ourrent Surplus                      4168          21.1        21.2                  3497          17.7          18.3
Capital Expenditures                 5713          28.9        23.3                  4913          24.9          19.9
External Assistance (net)
:g0NEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1971          1972         1973         1974        1975         1976
(Million  N  outstanding end period)
>icnay and Quasi Money                     1005.4        1161.4      1414.1       2156.3       3622.5       5278.9
36nk credit to Public Sector                531.4        519.0        497.1      -1460.1      -1281.5       199.5
Gaank Credit to Private Sector              591.2         750.2       854.4       1070.2       1786.1       2417.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Mcnay and Quasi Money as % of GDP            14.1          15.1        15.9         14.9        21.9         26.7
8eneral Price Index (196f1 - 100)           179.1         172.9       203.9        217.0       289.6        352.4
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          15.0          -3.5        17.9           6,3       33,5         21.7
3ank credit to Public Sector                 19.4         -2.3         -4.2          n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Ba.k credit to Private Sector                24.0         26.9         12.7         26.6        66.8        35.4
NOTE. :All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
T rotal labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
sainly of unemployed wrkers seeking their first job.
Index of Urban Consumer Prices
. Not applicable



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAWMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOh5
BAL&8C2 OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974     1975      1976                                                  US $ Mln    .
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           9927      8833      10541             Crude Oil                           8658       92.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           4362      8081      10446             Cocoa Products                       337        3.6
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    5565         732         95             Groundnut Products                    15          .2
Palm Products                         67         .7
Interest Payments (net)          -38      -459       -386             Tin                                    30         .3
Workers' Remittances                _        _          _
Other Factor Payments (net)    635         738        690
Net Transfers                     99       122        143               All other commodities               211       2.3
Balance on Current Account    4869         349       -352                    Total                        9318      100,0
Direct Foreign Investment        289       410        387             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 N.A.      N.A.       N.A.                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                  N.A.      N.       __ NR.A.
Subtotal                       27        36        -5                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                1241
Capital Grants                    *.        ..         ,.               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             -325      -504      -362                Total outstanding & Disbursed                 137
Other items n.e.i                 72       -36        -55                                          1/
Increase in Reserves (+)        4932       255       -387             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976
Gross Reserves (end year)       5748      5930      5599
Net Reserves   (end year)       5722      5909      5520                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                  *
Fuel and Related Materials Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imnports                        88       162        280
of which:  Petroleum          -         -          -
Exports                       9016      7932       9468
of which:  Petroleum        9016      7932       9468      IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Novv30,1977 ) (Million US $):
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                -        -
1974:  N1.00  =  US 1.59                                            Outstanding & Disbursed                 401.0       38.4
1975:  N1.00  =  US$1.62                                            Undisbursed                             243.4         .3
1976:  N1.00  =  US$1.60                                            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           644.4       38.7
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1Z
Not Available
May 1978



- 26-                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as of ?larch 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                           US$ million
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower         Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ten loans and two credits fully disbursed                292.1   35.5
427      1965      Nigeria       Roads                   14.5               2.5
694      1970      Nigeria       Transport               25.0               0.6
764      1971      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.               7.2                 .0
814      1972      Nigeria       Education               17.3               11.0
838      1972      Nigeria       Roads                   26.3              13.8
847      1972      NEPA          Power                   76.0               2.8
922      1973      NPA           Port                    55.0              24.2
929      1973      Nigeria       Education               54.0               54.0
1045      1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.              20.0               12.3
1091      1975      Nigeria       Livestock               21.0               17.8
1092      1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua       29.0                9.3
1099      1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gusau        19.0                4.2
1103      1975      Nigeria       Rice Dev.               17.5               14.6
1164      1975      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Gombe        21.0               11.2
1183      1975      Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm   29.5                 28.9
1191      1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm   19.0                18.5
1192      1976      Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm       17.0              17.0
1454      1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Lafia        27.0              27.0
1455      1977      Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Ayangba    35.0                35.0
Total                                822.4    35.5    304.7
Of which has been repaid             102.5     1.4
Total outstanding 1/                 715.5    34.1
Amount sold                 16.8
of which has been repaid  15.2         1.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA**  713.9    34.1
Total undisbursed                    304.7       .0    304.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of Ifarch 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                  Type of         Amount in US$ Million
Year                                   Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.   Textile Mfg.    1.0          0.6       1.6
1970
1964         Nigeria Industrial    Dev. Fin. Co.                1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973          Funtua Cottonseed      Veg. Oil          1.6                1.6
Crushing Ltd.          Crushing
1974         Lagiagi Sugar           Sugar                      0.1      0.1
Estates
1973         Nigerian Aluminum       Aluminum
Extrusion Ltd.         Processing        1.0      0.3      1.3
Total Gross Commitments                  3.6      2.4       6.0
Less cancellations                     0.3               0.3
Less sold or repaid                    1.6      1.5      3.1
Total Commitments now held by IFC        1.7      0.9       2.6
Undisbursed                              0.5      0.1       0.6
**   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
1/   Excluding cancellations of 4.4.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 814-UNI      Second Education Project;  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project comprises the construction of secondary schools and
teacher training colleges in the former Eastern Region of Nigeria. Dis-
ruptions caused by the creation of new State Governments in 1976 are no longer
delaying the project. While progress is being made in the implementation of
the project in three of the four participating States, the current financial
constraints have affected 8E of the 9 schools in the project in Imo State. The
project should be completed by December 1978, some 36 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 929-UNI      Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the scope
of the project is under review. The Government has incurred expenditures of
US$19.5 million, but has not submitted any withdrawal applications. Officials
responsible at both the State and Federal levels appear to have neither the
organization staff, nor knowledge of Bank withdrawal procedures which would
enable them to perform this task. A staff member from the Controllers'
Department visited both State and Federal Officials to advise on withdrawal
procedures. Because of weak management and a need to redesign the project,
completion could be delayed by as much as a year.
Loan No. 427-UNI      Western Nigeria Road Project: US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in prcject executior.



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 764-UNI      Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million Loan of June 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 5, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 838-UNI      Fifth Highway Project: US$26.3 million Loan of June 26,
1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project has been completed. Before formal closure, the Bank
awaits word from the Government that no further withdrawal applications are
pending.
Loan No. 847-UNI      Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million Loan of June 30,
1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
While the delivery of some items has been delayed and the rural
electrification component has been redefined as a result of additional studies,
the project is expected to be completed in calendar year 1978.
Loan No. 922-UNI      Second Lagos Port Project: US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The civil works and procurement of container cranes are expected to
be completed by the end of 1978. Total project costs will be much in excess
of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns. In October
1977 the NPA's 1975 proposals for a revision of the tariff structure were
accepted by the Government and became effective. This major revision will
considerably improve the financial situation of the ports. In addition, the
NPA is now up-to-date with the presentation and auditing of annual accounts.
Loan No. 1045-UNI    Second Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new States has created some organizational
and managerial problems, the project is progressing satisfactorily in three of
the four States. The Bendel State component is proceeding unsatisfactorily
because of management/organizational problems and target plantings will be
reduced.



-29 -                             ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1091-UNI    Livestock Development Project: US$21.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. There are serious problems of counter-
part funding from the Federal Government. Furthermore, the Nigeria Agricul-
tural Bank has not onlent funds to farmers. A Bank project review mission in
October 1977 led to agreement on measures to resolve these problems although
their implementation have yet to be initiated. Further complications have
arisen through resignation of senior project staff because of unsatisfactory
project progess.
Loan No. 1092-UNI    Funtua Agricultural Development Project: US$29.0
million Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date:
January 5, 1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The Federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is operational. Project costs are in line with
appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. There are
problems relating to the timely procurement of fertilizer supplies, however.
Loan No. 1099-UNI    Gusau Agricultural Development Project: US$19.0
million Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date:
January 5, 1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support from both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and the road building
program is being well received. The preparation of a feasibility study for an
expanded second stage to cover the remainder of Bauchi State is proceeding
satisfactorily. Senior management staff are in place and recruitment of local
staff is on schedule. Project unit costs are some 25 percent above appraisal
estimates due to domestic inflation. Disbursement is proceeding rapidly.
There are problems relating to fertilizer procurement, however.
Loan No. 1103-UNI    Rice Project: US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States, land acquisition problems and other operational problems. While
most senior staff have been recruited, some junior and intermediate level
staff positions remain vacant. The Bank proposes to withdraw from partici-
pation in the project component located in Cross Rivers State because of
acute problems of cost overruns and inadequate local financial support.
It is planned to reallocate the remaining funds to project components in
Anambra and Imo States where physical project progress is satisfactory.



- 30 -                            ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1164-UNI    Gombe Agricultural Development Project:
I O m1l4'^n Loan of September 29, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1976;
Clqsing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal ard State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable
with the demand for inputs exceeding appraisal estimates. The senior manage-
ment team is complete, but there has been a problem in recruiting intermediate
and junior staff. The project is also encountering problems related to the
timely provision of local counterpart funds.
Loan No. 1183-UNI    Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:
US$29.5 million Loan of December 31, 1975;
Effective Date: October 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the Federal
and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Although project implemen-
tation started satisfactorily, appraisal targets have not been met for the
smallholder component as a result of a combination of financial, technical and
managerial problems. Cost overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI    East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:
US$19.0 million Loan of February 12, 1976;
Effective Date: April 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new States
as well as intermediate and junior staffing problems. The latter have now
been resolved. However, appraisal targets have not been met and substantial
cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI    Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project: US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is adequately staffed with key personnel. The small-
holder component is progressing well but appraisal targets are lagging behind
although the final target is likely to be achieved. Problems with estate land
acquisition delayed loan effectiveness and have not been completely resolved.
Furthermore, the long-term counterpart funding of the estate component is
uncertain.
Loan No. 1454-UNI    Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1455-UNI    Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:
US$35.0 million Loan of June 28, 1977;
Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 32 -                            ANNEX III
NIGERIA
RIVERS STATE NUCLEUS ESTATE/SMALLHOLDER OIL PALM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:           36 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                      SOCFINCO/IBRD
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:             August 1976
(d)  Date of first Bank mission to consider project:  May 1975
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:             October 25, 1976
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                         April 7, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                      December 6, 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(1)  The loan would be relent by the Federal Government to Rivers
State under a subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 56);
(2)  Separate Bank accounts for the nucleus estate and SMU have been
opened and adequately funded;
(3) SMU has been established in a form satisfactory to the Bank, its
senior management positions filled and SMU's Steering Committee
has been established;
(4) A subsidiary loan agreement between FMG and Rivers State which
would cover both onlending of the Bank loan and FMG allocation
has been signed;
(5) A subsidiary loan and equity subscription agreement between Rivers
State Government and RISONPALM Ltd. has been signed;
(6) The Management Agreement for the nucleus estate has been signed
and the key staff appointed.



.. ...... - . . .- ' .   -       .
Is ,
C                                                                                   ., .,---- -t@0 C 0 : i   _.D 
lb ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ '
1-                                                                                                                , t    .- A:;'  a
rk    X   <        - -                   * '           t-                              /    1> 1                       4~~~~~~7  IL
03
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
40   X                0              0  t                     0                'I '         't~~~~~~~~~~j0 
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '\\ ,'                                                       ,.;, 3S-
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~00 _' _0 ___



