Page  1
CREDIT NUMBER 2682-1-GH 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Thermal Power Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated    March 15                   
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 2682-1-GH 
(Amendment) 
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated                                , between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Thermal Power Project) dated June 30, 1995 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) as amended from time to time for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
Revised Project cost estimates result in cost savings under the Project equivalent 
to approximately $71.8 million; 
 
(C)  
the Borrower has requested the Association to restructure the Project by adding a 
new component to upgrade the distribution system and build the managerial capacities of 
Electricity Company of Ghana; 
 
(D) 
Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Electricity Company of Ghana 
(ECG), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to ECG a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement: 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Amending Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Subsections (f), (g) and (i) of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement are amended to read as follows: 
 
“(f) 
"VRA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and VRA agreement with VRA dated June 30, 1995, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;” 
 
“(g) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy;” 
 
“(i) 
"VRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and VRA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the VRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement;” 
 
Section 1.03. New subsections (k) through (m) are added to Section 1.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement as follows: 
 
“(k) 
“Amending Agreement” means this agreement amending the 
Development Credit Agreement; 
(l) 
“ECG” means the Electricity Company of Ghana Ltd., a privately held 
enterprise under the Company Code of 1963 (Act 179); 
(m) 
“ECG Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association 
and ECG of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the ECG Project Agreement; 
(n) 
“ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and ECG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(o) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.04. In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing Date is 
amended to read December 31, 2006. 
 
Section 1.05. A provision is added at the end of subsection 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
 “Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B(4) , Part B(5) and C of 
Page  4
-
3
-
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed 
in accordance with the provisions of (i) the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 ; and  (ii) 
the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999”.  
 
Section 1.06. A new section 2.10 is added to the Development Credit Agreement as 
follows: 
“Section 2.09. ECG is designated as representative of the Borrower in respect of 
Part C of the Project for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V 
of the General Conditions.” 
 
Section 1.07 
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: 
 
(i)   shall carry out Part B of the Project through MOE with due 
diligence and efficiency in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices 
and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for such Part of the Project; and 
 
(ii)   without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement: (A) shall cause VRA and ECG 
to carry out Parts A and C of the Project respectively, to perform 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
respective obligations of VRA and ECG therein set forth, (B) 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable VRA and ECG to perform such obligations, 
and (C) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to 
VRA under the VRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and VRA, and under the ECG Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ECG, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which 
shall include provisions requiring the respective repayment by VRA and 
ECG of principal in 17 years, including 3 years of grace, payment of interest 
Page  5
-
4
-
at the rate of 8% per annum, and the respective foreign exchange risks to be 
borne by VRA and ECG. 
 
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the VRA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.” 
 
Section 1.08. Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of Part A and C of the Project shall be carried out by VRA and ECG 
respectively, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the VRA Project Agreement and Section 
2.03 of the ECG Project Agreement. Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement is revised as per Annex 1 to this Amending 
Agreement.”   
 
Section 1.09. Section 3.06 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause VRA and ECG to 
carry out, in a  timely manner an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to 
implement the measures set out in the Environmental Assessment.” 
 
Section 1.10. Section 3.09 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association,  
VRA and ECG, not earlier than 12 months and not later than 16 months 
following the Effective Date, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project and the Program. This review shall cover, among other things: (i) 
the respective performance of ECG VRA in carrying out the Project; (ii) the 
extent to which the institutional objectives of the Project are being achieved; (iii) 
the work of the Power Sector Reform Committee; (iv) the implementation of the 
Electricity Demand Management Program and the operation of the Electricity 
Demand Management Fund; (v) compliance with the financial, audit and other 
obligations of the Borrower, VRA and ECG included in this Agreement and the 
Project Agreement; (vi) construction of the Power Plant; (vii) the evolution of the 
key performance indicators agreed upon with the Association; (viii) procurement 
under the Project; (ix) implementation of the environmental action plan referred 
to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and (x) the provision of funds for the 
Project by the Borrower, ECG and VRA. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at least 30 days prior to 
such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, prepared 
by VRA (with respect to Part A of the Project) by ECG (with respect to Part C of 
the Project and the Program) and the Borrower (with respect to Part B of the 
Project and the Program), describing the status of progress regarding the items 
listed in paragraph (a) above and of Project and Program implementation 
generally. 
 
(c)  Based on such review, the Borrower shall, jointly with VRA and ECG, 
promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project and the Program, and shall thereafter implement 
such action plan.” 
 
Section 1.11 The subparagraphs (b), (c), and (e) in Section 5.01 are amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“
(b)   VRA or ECG shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations 
under the Project Agreement; 
 
(c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
VRA or ECG will be able to perform its respective obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of VRA or ECG or for the 
suspension of their respective operations;” 
 
Section 1.12  The objectives of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement are amended to read as follows: 
 
“The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase VRA's generating capacity to 
meet increasing electricity demand, (b) improve VRA's operational efficiency 
and power sector financial sustainability and strengthen its institutional capacity, 
(c) facilitate distribution system improvement, (d) strengthen institutional 
capabilities in the power sector and (d) improve the Borrower's management of 
the power sector.” 
 
Section 1.13. Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by adding the following new subsections: 
“4. Strengthening environmental remediation in the power sector. 
5. Provision of technical assistance to ECG for: (a) developing load forecasting 
models; (b) procurement assistance and supervision; and (c) training in treasury 
management and electricity tariff setting” 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 1.14. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by adding a 
new Part C: Distribution System Upgrading: 
 
“1. Development of 33kV sub-transmission systems in Accra, Tema and Kumasi, 
including (a) construction of 33 kV substations; (b) cable contracts; (c)  
construction of 33 kV lines and (d) supply of vehicles. 
2. Distribution works for(11 kV and LV) system improvements 
3. Improvements in metering, billing and revenue collection improvements,  
including (a) extension of computer billing system and additional equipment; (b) 
demand and energy metering; (c) computerization and billing and operations 
activities in District Offices; (d) hardware for computerization of district billing 
and (e) equipment for a customer call center. 
4. Voice/data connectivity in the Greater Accra area. 
5. Provision of technical assistance for: (a) developing load forecasting models; 
(b) procurement assistance and supervision; (c) training in treasury management; 
(d) training in electricity tariff setting; (e) environmental remedial measures.”   
 
Section 1.15. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
revision of Section I, Part A of the said Schedule to read as follows: 
“1. 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with principles and procedures consistent with 
those set forth in the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits”, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 
1997 and January 1999.”  
 
Section 1.16. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
revision of Section II, paragraph 1 of the said Schedule to read as follows: 
“1. 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualification, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in 
accordance with the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999.” 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association showing: 
 
(a) 
that the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action, and that 
this Amending Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; 
 
(b) 
that the execution and delivery of the ECG Project Agreement on behalf of ECG 
has been duly authorized or ratified and that the ECG Project Agreement is legally binding upon  
ECG in accordance with its terms;  
 
(c) 
that the execution and delivery of the ECG Subsidiary Loan Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower and ECG have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action, and that this Amending Subsidiary Loan Agreement is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and ECG in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(d) 
that a transaction advisor for award by the MOE of the ECG management 
contract, satisfactory to the Association, has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II to Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of Counsel acceptable to the Association showing that: 
 
(a) 
on behalf of the Borrower, this Amending Agreement and the ECG Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf 
of the Borrower, and are legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with their terms; and 
(b) on behalf of ECG, the ECG Project Agreement and the ECG Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement have been duly authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of ECG, and are 
legally binding upon ECG in accordance with their terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.  
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a 
date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and 
all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later 
date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the 
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By 
 
    
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
    
Authorized Representative 
Africa 
Page  10
-
9
-
ANNEX 1 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
VRA:  
 
 
(1) 
(a) Works for 
97,400,000 
100% of foreign 
 
Part A.1 of 
 
expenditures 
 the 
Project 
 
(b) Supply and 
 
100% of foreign 
 Install 
Contracts 
 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Equipment and  
475,000 
100% of foreign 
 
materials for Parts A.2, 
 
 
expenditures 
 
A.3 and A.4 of the 
 Project 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
12,210,000 
100% of foreign 
 
services and training 
 
expenditures 
 
for Parts A and of the 
 Project 
 
MOE: 
(4) Consultants’ 
services 
 
100% 
 
and training for: 
 
(a) Parts B.1 and 
2,700,000 
 
B.2 of the 
 
Project 
 
(b) Part B.3 of 
300,000 
 
the Project 
(5) Equipment 
for 
445,000 
100% 
 Part 
B 
of 
the 
 Project 
(6) Unallocated 
520,000 
 
 
 
Page  11
-
10
 -
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
VRA: (additional) 
 
(7) 
Consultants’ services 
0 
100% 
 
for Akosombo Retrofit 
 works 
 
(8) 
Equipment and materials 
7,100,000 
100% of foreign  
 
for part C of the Project 
 
expenditures 
 
(9) 
Supply and install contracts 
2,600,000 
100%  of foreign 
 
for part C of the Project 
 
expenditures 
 
(10) 
Consultant services and training 
350,000 
100% 
 
for part C of the Project 
 
=========
TOTAL
 124,100,000
